u2015-04-01-0	Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be here to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. I would like to inform you that today the accounts of the Economic Competition Authority will take place, and then we will continue our work with a general debate on four proposals. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the experience gained during the 2013 activities of the Economic Competition Authority and the application of the Competition Act, as presented by the Economic Competition Authority, and the joint proposal for a decision adopting it, presented by the Economic Committee, will follow. The report was presented in B/1034. and the proposal for a decision H/4033. my fellow Members received it. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Juhász, President of the Economic Competition Authority, author of the report. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2015-04-01-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Before and as a start of the Competition Authority's 2013 report, allow me to briefly summarise for the first time the objectives on which the Office has been active for years. One of the most important objectives is the fight against cartels. Obviously, there is no need to explain the justification for the fight against cartels, as this means higher prices, limited choice for consumers, and the disadvantages of this are therefore well known. In 2013, a specific event affected our activities in this regard, namely the creation of the Discovery Office as an independent organisational unit. This was intended to make our exploratory work more effective, and it seems to have worked, because in recent years - although this will appear in the 2014 report - the number of cases has increased. Our very important goal is not only to protect vulnerable consumers in 2013, but also to protect vulnerable consumers for several years. Who are we talking about when we mention vulnerable consumers? Those who, for example, do not receive credit from financial institutions because of their health, old age or difficult financial situation, do not talk to them because they are not creditworthy, elderly, easily dependent, impressionable, sick, and when an advertisement shows up to them that taking a particular product or using a particular treatment gives them a cure for a disease that no one has been able to cope with before, they are obviously prone to believe that. Therefore, vulnerable consumers who play an important role on the other side motivate the activities of the GVH. In addition, we have recently sought to strengthen the customer-friendly nature of the Office. Allow me to make a small comment on this, since what it means to be customer-friendly in the case of an office that is punishing. On the one hand, it means that we must fully facilitate the granting of procedural rights, the right of defence, which are subject to the procedure. However, it also means helping them to be guided by information, communications and guidelines between competition rules, which is of particular importance because competition rules are framed. It is not that, for example, in the Criminal Code, an infringement is defined by an exact fact, but is of a framework nature, i.e. the case law fills these rules with substance. In such circumstances, it is necessary for market players to be able to adapt to the requirements of the Competition Authority to help them do so. However, there is another area where customer-friendliness can be more pronounced and appear in a different way, and these are our fusion issues, the area of merger control. These cases are initiated on request, and this is the case that one or another company acquires control or ownership over another company in a given transaction. Why is that important? Because every authority authorisation, every prolonged procedure is an uncertainty in business. This uncertainty is the worst for market participants, since they do not know which direction to start in until then. This has led us to set very important goals in this area too, and this has ultimately led us to the conclusion that these procedures, i.e. fusion procedures, have been significantly shortened in terms of their duration. When I took over the office in 2010, the average time to close a simple fusion case was 103 days. In 2013 it was between 22 and 24 days. The closure of more complex cases, which previously took 186 days, took 104 days in 2013. In addition, we have given operators the opportunity to make use of a so-called "prenotification conciliation procedure" in a regulated framework before the proceedings, in which we draw their attention to the aspects that must be met during the procedure. These efforts seem to have succeeded, because in 2013, the international organisation carrying out the international merger control, the merger comparison, recorded the Competition Authority among the best in the European Union, ranked it second. In 2010, we were 16th. Then allow me to present you with some specific figures, some specific data on our 2013 activity. 1725 signals have been received from the office. About 90 percent of this is a complaint, slightly less than 10 percent is a complaint. Overall, this is less than in recent years, but the number of notifications has increased. The number of cases brought is 109, the number of cases closed is 120. This was similar to previous years, a little more than the 2012 figure. The fine revenue in 2013 exceeded HUF 11 billion, the year imposing the highest fine was the year in 2013 in the life of the GVH. [[9.10]] What kind of cases make up these numbers? What kind of cases are behind these numbers? For years, consumer protection has made up half of our cases. 61 such cases were closed in 2013: 37 fusion cases, a little over 30 percent, classical antitrust cases, cartel and dominant cases by 15 percent, 15 percent and 5 respectively, were added by two follow-up investigations. I would like to briefly address the change in the legal environment in a few words below, which has affected the Office's activities very significantly. As of 1 January 2013, the forum system changed: the decisions of the Competition Authority were taken in the first instance by the administrative and labour courts instead of the Metropolitan Court, and the Metropolitan Court became the forum of second instance. From 1 July, the Criminal Code was amended in so far as it concerns leniency rules. This was important to us because it was always a problem that this kind of opportunity didn't really work. It was said that, on the one hand, we may have granted partial or full immunity to the applicant for leniency, it was not automatic at all, and it was not certain that he would then be exempted from criminal considerations. If we imagine now that someone is forced to be honest with the Competition Authority, to cooperate with the Office, to reveal the facts, and on the other hand, to face criminal proceedings as a result, since there are also criminal consequences for cartels in concession cases and public procurement cases, obviously this is a contradiction. Well, that's what the amendment to the criminal code dissolved. At the end of the year, the amendment of the law that allowed the government to remove a certain concentration of national strategic importance from the merger procedure can be linked to the end of the year. The year 2013 was also affected by the overall amendment of the Competition Act, but I would not mention it now because it is due to the entry into force of this Act in 2014. Let us then look at some specific types of cases that characterize 2013! In the area of consumer protection, we should highlight our issues with consumer groups. We have been fighting and fighting consumer groups for years, and it seems that we are approaching some sort of solution. Here, in fact, I believe that the competitive toolbox alone is not enough for this, but we can also see that the legislator has also taken steps in this direction, towards a solution. In 2013, we imposed a fine on six companies in four procedures, in excess of HUF 30 million. We also have important issues related to the health effects of food, financial services, as we are talking about an information asymmetry: investigating claims regarding medical devices, medical aids, cosmetics medicine, consumer issues. Allow me to highlight a case separately, because this is in the context of one of our proposals in my report, namely the issue of advertising aimed at children. In this proceeding, the Competition Authority sought to establish the ethical boundaries of advertising to children. In this regard, we have to say that, in the majority of children, experience has shown that the ability to distinguish between advertising and programmes is only developed by the age of 6-8. There is evidence that most children are only 8 to 10 years of age able to interpret the goal of advertising. On this basis, we believe that advertising aimed at children is unfair in itself, even in the absence of a direct request, because it abuses the cognitive limitations of age. In particular, advertising is debatable when a product for children is inserted into a cartoon, or when the company applies to the collective passion of children. In this regard, one of our proposals in the report. I would like to highlight some of the fusion issues, in particular the reorganization of the retail market. The Delhaize Group's withdrawal from the country started at the end of 2012 and this process was completed in the first half of 2013. In doing so, the Match, Cora and Profi chains and shops were mostly transferred to CBA and Coop and, in a small part, to Real and Spar. I will also mention the acquisition of the E.ON gas business of MVM in this area, this affected the energy sector, as well as the Libri-Shopline merger, which relates to the book market. The joint acquisition of management between Magyar Posta and the Land Loan Bank over the Fee Picker Holding is perhaps the case that still deserves to be mentioned in this case. Experience shows that about 20 percent of 37 fusion cases were related to public ownership. Two of the cartel cases are allowed to be highlighted: one is the so-called bank end-payment case, here the agency imposed a fine of HUF 9.5 billion against 11 financial institutions. The other major issue was the paper case, the so-called office instrument cartel, where a fine of HUF 1 billion was imposed. The reason why this case may be worth mentioning is that the first payment of an informant's fee was made in this case, the informant's fee as an opportunity has been in place since 1 April 2010, and this was the case in which such a fee was first paid. Its important task is to develop competition culture in addition to concrete procedures and the specific application of the law. The fact that we have work to do in this area is demonstrated by a number of surveys. I would like to give you, in particular, information that concerns small and medium-sized enterprises. It turns out from our survey that 24 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises have never heard of competition law, competition law. It is interesting - and perhaps a little smiling - that 19 percent believe that the competition law concerns the conduct of sports events. 18 percent believe that competition law, competition law, is about helping multinational companies. I think you can see from these numbers that there is chaos in your head, and you can see that there is something we can do about it. What did the Competition Authority do, and what does the Competition Authority do? We launched campaigns, conducted campaigns, such as our competition compliance campaign, which focused primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are those who, in most cases, do not have enough money to use the right lawyers to create a compliance programme, a compliance programme, so we thought it was important to raise their awareness. We have a targeted cooperation agreement with audit chambers and chambers of attorneys. We came from the assumption that they are the ones that all entrepreneurs meet sooner or later, because the company must be set up and the accounting must be done by someone. Another campaign of ours, don't fall for it. He became known by a title. Here we were trying to help victims of consumer groups, and we were trying to steer them in the direction of avoiding the pitfalls and, to say the violations they encounter in the organisation of such a group of consumers and which they face late. In addition to this, do you have a cartel-suspecting public procurement? We have compiled an information booklet with the title. We have sent these to the potential contracting authorities, among which we have identified the municipalities primarily and the government offices. [[9.20]] In order to ensure compliance with competition law, our agreements with the co-governments should be mentioned in the context of the development of competition culture. Here, under the co-governments, it was PSZF and the agreements concluded with the National Consumer Protection Authority and the MNB deserve special mention. We support applications and we try to help all educational and cultural institutions that are willing to develop competition culture in some way. However, I must make a general comment on this. I believe that with this number of people, a number of 120-125, a country's competitive awareness cannot be significantly altered. Here, as with regard to financial culture, it may be justified to think in a kind of education campaign, which makes this task part of the previous education and training programme. The third leg of the office's activity is pro-competitiveness. This is the activity by which the Office seeks to influence public activity in the interest of competition. In 2013, we had 106 legislative opinions, and 45 comments were made. There was a problem with the fact that legislation and the texts of the laws often came to us late, so there was little time to give an appropriate, well-founded opinion. Individual MEPs do not, by their very nature, move within the framework of the administrative conciliation mechanism, and therefore the opinion on them is difficult and sometimes impossible. The following is a brief discussion on issues of international relevance. The Competition Authority is, to a very large extent, perhaps, the most integrated organisation in the EU institutional system and the legal system. We apply EU law directly, four cases were launched in 2013 under EU law. What are the cases that we launch on this basis? Those where there is a commercial interest between Member States, i.e. where there is an actual or potential direct or indirect effect on competition compared to an conduct. This is the case when foreign owners are located among the owners who are subject to the procedure. I would like to devote a specific thought to the regional education centre. We created this together with the OECD centre of Budapest in 2005, that is, this year it celebrates its ten-year anniversary. The regional educational centre is targeted by the former Soviet successor states and the Balkan countries. In this area, we appear as a kind of legal source, as a background support institution, helping to develop the institutional system and competition law of these States. Another important task of the Regional Education Centre is the question of judges dealing with foreign competition law, but this applies, of course, also to Hungarian judges, and finally to the training of GVH staff with the involvement of renowned rapporteurs. In 2013, a total of 291 participants and 52 speakers were hosted by the Regional Education Centre, 17 experts from 17 countries and 37 countries, and organised 9 events focusing on the main competences of competition authorities and best practices in the field of competition law. I think that the media use of this institution could be better exploited, because it is a forum that has really gained widespread recognition recently. I would like to talk about the experience of the judicial review in a few words. The proportions have been broadly similar for many years, around half of consumer protection cases are accepted, no redress is taken against our decisions, and a request for review has been placed under the procedure. The other half of the cases will be brought to court, and practically all our cartel cases and dominant cases will also be brought to justice. It is difficult to give an accurate number of results, because it always changes a little, depending on the fact that the court of second instance touches it a little, it returns the case to the court of first instance or even to the Competition Authority. All in all, however, it can be seen that about 80-90 percent is the perput that is favourable to the GVH. Finally, very briefly, only in one sentence, the economic situation of the GVH. Our farming has been balanced, and our financial obligations have been met within the deadline. As I mentioned earlier, this task was carried out by the Bureau with a number of 120-125. Thank you very much for your attention. That's all I wanted to say. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-01-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 24 March 2015, the Economic Committee discussed the report of the Economic Competition Authority, on which Dr. Miklós Juhász gave detailed information to the Committee. It was reassuring for the majority of the Committee that the focus of the activities of the Economic Competition Authority would continue to be that the markets would benefit consumers in a competitive manner. Accordingly, the Economic Competition Authority considers the fight against cartels, the prevention of unfair commercial practices against consumers, or the emergence of an excessive dominant position on the market to be of paramount importance. In order to serve these goals even more effectively, in 2013 the so-called Discovery Office was set up, which deals with the detection and analysis of relevant economic data, market information. We believe that this unit is certainly capable of increasing the effectiveness of the fight against cartels. We also welcome the importance of protecting vulnerable consumers, such as elderly people and minors, for the Office. Complaint handling has improved significantly in recent years. Important changes were made to the customer service office's work, thus increasing customer-friendly mentality. Mr President gave precise numbers to the members of the committee, so we learned that 116 procedures were launched in 2012 and 120 in 2013, and that was the end of the office. In this context, the Committee has learned an important number: Between 2008 and 2012, the so-called social welfare benefit, the benefit that the activities of the Hungarian Competition Authority directly resulted in, amounted to HUF 58 billion. In this context, we are not talking directly about the amount of fines, but about the fact that there is a kind of deterrent effect on the action and procedures of the Hungarian Competition Authority. This amount does not include the amount resulting from consumer protection procedures, but it does include the deterrent effect and the wider benefits such as the impact on competitiveness. The actual social benefit therefore exceeds the amount shown above, and may be multiple. As regards the specific cases, it was a special pleasure for us to hear that the Hungarian Competition Authority was the first to deal with Hungarian products. The Office took action against the banking cartel when financial institutions coordinated their strategies to reduce fixed rate end-payments by limiting the granting of loans that trigger the loan. In addition, for example, the Authority conducted and fined inspections on utility companies in the food market, in the infocommunications sector or in the energy market in relation to unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers. The Office also places emphasis on competition awareness and its development in the spirit of social responsibility and awareness-raising. An example of this can be the.. Don't fall for it. The publication, published by the Hungarian Competition Authority, draws attention to the recognition of consumer groups, essential information about them and the risk elements. At the committee meeting, my fellow Members Roland Mengyi and Gábor Riz asked questions from the government side, and they were both given a meaningful reply from the president of the Economic Competition Authority. The Commission's majority was pleased to note, as mentioned in the report, that the effectiveness of the operation of the organisation further improved after the restructuring in 2013 and due to changes in the legislative environment. [[9.30]] This was mainly reflected in the speed of administration and in the effectiveness of investigations. The report shows that most of the cases managed by the Hungarian Competition Authority are related to consumer protection, which we have assessed positively because we consider it important that the Competition Authority does everything in the interests of consumers, and this should remain among its primacies. The Committee adopted the 2012 and 2013 reports of the Economic Competition Authority with one abstention, and accordingly, as rapporteur for the Economic Committee, I propose that the report be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-01-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Secretary of State, Mr Barna, that at this stage of the debate, he wishes to speak up now or later on representing the government. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-01-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Lords of the President, At this stage of the debate, allow me to contribute briefly, in some sentences, to the discussion of the report. First of all, on behalf of the government, I would like to thank you for the informative report. The proposals put forward at first reading are those that deserve serious, meaningful consideration, and we welcome, of course, the organizational and information activities referred to in the President's oral speech from the government and the Ministry of Justice responsible for competition lawmaking; similarly, information work for small and medium-sized enterprises, information and education work. Let me say a few sentences, putting it in a little system and recalling very briefly what we think is useful here in connection with the report and the debate on economic competition law, and specifically on the competence and operating order of the Hungarian Competition Authority. The right of economic competition as a legal area - there is also a professional and political consensus on this, which can be read several times - is one of the most important areas of law in addition to the law on companies, which defines the parameters, limitations and rules of the operation of the market players, of economic life. As a competition law topic, what is worth seeing in the context of the report and beyond is that what the Hungarian Economic Competition Authority applies as competition law is part of competition law in European countries and is the law of the European Union. The Hungarian Competition Authority, like the national authorities of other EU Member States, applies the so-called consumer protection competition law, antitrust law, i.e. the action against cartels and the enforcement of the prohibition of abuse of dominant market positions, and applies the so-called merger control authorisation procedure. In addition, as competition law, there are areas of law in the European Union which, if I may say so, are applied and enforced by a central EU authority in Brussels, the competition authority of the European Union. In this context, it is important to see that the authorisation procedure for mergers of companies with an EU dimension, i.e. to a certain extent, based on revenue and traffic data, goes to Brussels because of the European market dimension rather than to competition authorities in the Member States. In the same way, it is worth seeing that major cartel cases can be launched by Brussels, regardless of the action of national competition authorities, where appropriate, rarely take over. And it is important to see that the so-called State aid control acts as an EU legal instrument and as a competition authority function of the Brussels Commission, i.e. when individual corporate subsidies are derived from public funds which are targeted in a manner suitable for market distortion. The State aid legislation is therefore not the competence of national competition authorities and therefore not the competence of the Competition Authority at home. This is worth seeing in its system - because sometimes there are inappropriate expectations or criticisms - in order to put some parts of competition issues in place from the point of view of who employs them, who is responsible for their enforcement. As Mr President mentioned in his oral report, in the nature of merger licensing and action against cartels, there are basically two very, very different procedural regimes. One is a classic administrative authorisation procedure, and the other is a so-called criminal-character punishment procedure. It has a criminal character, because, think about it, it is simply that there is a prohibition rule, a cartel ban, a ban on abuse of dominant position, and that there is a suspicion that this ban has been violated, a state authority is acting, examining their past actions, and at the end of the investigation, it is imposing a repressive, repressive, sanctioning measure and fines; it can impose fines of a very serious magnitude. The rules of procedure of criminal proceedings existing in cartel law and subject to formal competition surveillance procedures are constantly shaped by competition law and judicial practice. In addition, it is worth reviewing these from time to time from the point of view of proper efficiency and sophisticated regulation, based on what we have heard in the annual reports. In particular, there is a sophistication of fact-finding possibilities and rules of evidence, the legitimate achievement of evidence, from time to time, also because, in the course of judicial review at home, in the domestic forum system, procedural warranty issues may refer to an international legal forum, the practice of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Indeed, after the final closure of a specific case at home, it can be that they turn to the Court of Strasbourg and then act against the State. It is therefore important for both the case-law and the legislation to ensure that this procedural regime is constantly in line with state-of-the-art and international procedural guarantees. In the context of the domestic judicial review, Mr President also mentioned changes in competences. In addition to the Office's proposals, consideration may be given to considering whether the number of court interventions at home is adequate or not too much. The work to improve the organizational efficiency of the Competition Authority, as well as the measures governing the internal and informal operating system, can, of course, only be welcomed. However, in the enforcement of antitrust law, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Competition Act gives the Office a serious opportunity to carry out market tests, market analyses, and even to ask market participants and sectors to ask questions prior to the formal procedure. This market analysis and market monitoring work is of cardinal importance for identifying issues of concern. [[9.40]] This direction or this part of the work actually produces the input of formal competition monitoring cases, which can best influence market players' awareness and activities for the future. Overall, thanks again for the report: the proposals will be considered in substance and, at the end of this speech, we propose that the Government adopt them. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-6	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, keynote speakers will be held. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-01-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr President, The report on the activities of the Hungarian Competition Authority in 2013 and on the experience gained in applying the Competition Act on the application of the purity and freedom of competition allows us to evaluate the activity of the Competition Authority and its report on its work in 2013. Perhaps we should start with the legal background that President Juhász mentioned; while not part of the 2013 report, but with the operational experience between 2010 and 13 it contributes to ensuring the operational conditions of the Office. What is this amendment about, as these years have greatly influenced the work of two years since then. This amendment entered into force on 1 January 2014. The preparation of the amendment to the Competition Act was initiated by the GVH at KIM in 2013; the Parliament adopted the 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and restriction of competition on 18 November 2013. CCL of 2013 amending Act No. Law. In addition to minor changes to the application of the law, the amendment clarified the rules of the merger procedure, changed the special regulation on civil servants of the GVH in the light of the law on the status of civil servants, and changed the data management and the system of access to the file comprehensively. So the condition is given to function. This came into force from 1 January 2014, but I think that it is absolutely possible to take into account even the assessment of the performance of the 13th. The legal background thus ensured the basic task of the Office. And here it is worth highlighting two main things: strengthening the public interest in maintaining fair competition in the market and enforcing the law-abiding behaviour of market players, which is important from a citizen's, consumer's point of view. How are these standards implemented in accordance with the law and the previous regulations? The activity of the Competition Authority has become predictable for market participants and helps with its instruments to comply with the law, has strengthened the faster flow of information through communications, prospectuses, guides and interpretation of certain provisions. Good practices and international experience have helped this work, faster administration has been carried out, its organisation has been developed, the expertise of its experts has been strengthened, and significant IT developments have also been carried out. Wide-ranging domestic interinstitutional agreements have been concluded, especially with consumer protection authorities and organisations - and it is worth putting on consumer glasses again here. In conclusion, it can therefore be said that, in the course of the activities of the Economic Competition Authority, it is taking action against cartels. This includes measures against credit institutions affected by a nearly 9.5 billion fine, which are subject to a foreign exchange credit agreement, a fine of HUF 1 billion already imposed on the sale of office supplies and measures taken in the case of the other 52 infringements. It has acted against unfair practices against consumers - perhaps we can include the practices and offers of contracts disguised by invoices - and it has also acted against mergers. To sum up, we can say that the legal background was guaranteed, the legal background of the Hungarian Competition Authority was used, and by taking these measures it helped us, consumers, to understand clearly. The social benefit of the activities of the Hungarian Competition Authority is also a material benefit to consumers through the competitive activity of the Office. The results of the conservative impact assessment carried out by the GVH in 2013 were based on the assumption that, without the intervention of the GVH, the products and services concerned would have been more expensive for us consumers in the event of continued infringement or mergers leading to a significant reduction in competition. The social benefits of the GVH can therefore be captured in cash, which is supported by a fine of HUF 11.2 billion imposed on the companies concerned in 2013. Allow me to stop here for a moment, and in the course of the evaluation and the oral amendments, I will ask you three questions, if you will have the opportunity to answer Mr President and explain a little more than in the oral amendment. There are three issues that have obviously occurred in the period since 2013, but are a problem from the consumer side and are of general interest. The first is how the remedies launched by the fine-lending financial institutions in 2013 stand and whether this HUF 9.5 billion has been recovered - quote - what the results of the proceedings are. There has also been a second mention of the regulated functioning of vulnerable consumers and consumer groups, their experience and further action, and possibly government and legislative measures. And the third, which is particularly important on the consumer side: what measures do you consider necessary to protect against covert buying actions, mentioned by you in the oral amendment, and how should we proceed in this case? And perhaps it can be stated - in conclusion and in summary - that the activity and work of the Hungarian Competition Authority will help the Hungarian consumer to get the same treatment in the field of services as the citizens of the countries with a better fate than we do, in a simpler way: so let the Hungarians also have good wood money, just let it ring a bell. To conclude, in summary, I would like to thank Mr President and the staff of the Office for their work in the course of the report and throughout their annual activities, and we propose that the report be adopted on behalf of the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-8	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For my part, thank you very much for the work and thank you for the report. I am infinitely sorry, I cannot be as understanding as the Fidesz faction does, I must point out a few shortcomings, because with the individual amendment introduced by you in 2013, which we also refer to as bad practice, which we call very often, because of the interference in the GVH's powers, we believe that the Competition Authority is not complete now, because the government can, by a regulation, withdraw from the GVH's powers by a pen stroke, obviously in order to achieve very important national strategic goals - most of all, the preservation of jobs and security of supply - but it can withdraw businesses from merger control companies that are more connected to the state. [[9.50]] By the way, I can see that the goal that you are trying to achieve was right in this regard. What the government is using this for is wrong. Thus, an incorrect conclusion has emerged from the correct facts when we see that the GVH is not an autonomous body now, but can simply ban it by order of the State, and as I will later refer to several cases, it also prohibits it from acting in these cases. I don't think we're doing the right thing. Mr President referred to the disadvantage that can be caused to businesses, especially in the case of merger control, if a procedure is delayed for 180 days. I'm sure that's true. I am also glad that this has been reduced to 24 days, but I will list a few cases where I believe that the economic operators and the Hungarian economy are not necessarily benefiting from it, unless it has caused any damage if they fail, they will be completely under government decree, and the GVH will simply not participate in the merger control procedure. Such was the purchase of Főgáz by MVM, the nationalization of savings cooperatives, the nationalisation of Antenna Hungária, the acquisition of state ownership in MKB Bank; but the Government decree was issued by Welt 2000 Kft. the acquisition of shares in his business, as well as the acquisition of the shares of the Nation's Book Publisher and Apáczai Publisher, which, I believe, in the case of each public office with a high authority and high authority such as the GVH, will certainly destroy the public confidence that should be around such matters. I always try to point out this in my speeches, especially when we listen to reports, because when these accounts are written, we can be sure that what is written in the report is okay. But we have a problem with what's not written down. The biggest problem in Hungary today is that public confidence in public offices, predictability, people going somewhere or businesses expecting something because they could expect something in a predictable legal environment with proper application, otherwise this is not the case. This public confidence, by the way, is destroyed by the many exceptions - one or two exceptions, obviously not yet, but by the many exceptions. Did the nationalisation of savings cooperatives have to preserve jobs, or was the security of supply the problem? At Antenna Hungária or Welt 2000 Kft., what was the national strategy goal that justified the establishment of such a decree, such a government decree? Here we can see that we can think that Fidesz and the government simply do not want an autonomous body to reflect on the economic impact of nationalisations at some level. As the President said, I will refer to them later, and it is not possible to refer to them very often, since they will be passed late by draft laws, and not least by individual representatives from the government side, which I am attacking a great deal, it is impossible to examine and give appropriate answers or opinions on them. However, it can be seen that if the economic effects of nationalisation cannot be examined or examined by the GVH, since this is effectively prohibited in the Government Decree, then the functioning of the market, fair competition, as Mr Vantara referred to, is actually not about capacity, innovation and capacity expansion, but about good or bad relations with the state. This is what is not being examined in very important sectors, such as the GVH in the energy sector. However, the question arises, of course, if there is so much public overweight, whether there is a need for an Economic Competition Authority in this model. Is it necessary to apply the main rule if there is so much exception, and to do so, not to take into account their number but their weight. One could, of course, be larger than all the others, but these were not small, not low-value, and they were obviously a merger of companies affecting most of the population, of course, the security of supply, in which intervention must have affected the functioning of the market. In my profession, there is an important principle: you always have to ask yourself, for whose sake - that is what I have been talking about so far - and the second is to try to conclude the opposite. Unfortunately, the conclusion to the contrary brings about the same lack of public confidence, public confidence in this case and in the report, and the operation of the GVH in 2013, which I have talked about so far when it acts. If we find examples here that are so striking, so life-altering, such as MVM-E.ON's merger, which is generally known as the state's purchase of E.ON - in fact, the merger of MVM and E.ON - where the Hungarian Competition Authority initially considered this transaction to be of concern, this transaction, and later on - not so interesting and surprisingly, because we are getting used to it, of course - all kinds of commitments and all kinds of conditions have been approved by the Hungarian Competition Authority. On the basis of which, however, he approved, if I am to be very polite, I must say that he did so at least with an optimistic foresight and a capacity in which he saw that it could refer to the unborn legislation of 2015 and that the operation of the Hungarian-Slovak gas pipeline that would start in 2015 could be based on his ability to issue this authorisation, and he does not express any doubts in this case. Here we have only one doubt that today is April 1st, and the Hungarian-Slovak gas pipeline is still not working. So there are some places where, politely speaking, optimism, where the operation of government agencies and the possibility of legislating was justified, and I suppose it wasn't such a coincidence. Where this is not only up to the Hungarian government, we see that there are problems. Yesterday, you authorized the transaction belonging to the retail portfolio of MET and GDF Suez. Mr President, according to the Competition Authority, this merger does not have adverse effects, even if MET is constantly in public opinion, politics and public speech, it has been definitively sued because it has not been published. My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, won the lawsuit in which he would like to see the relevant data expected with public interest. But they still haven't released that. When a company operates in such a way that it doesn't even issue data that are very, very important to the public, which can affect public confidence and public opinion, and can also destroy the public confidence surrounding your office, how can that be okay? How can it be okay for another non-Hungarian company with Hungarian owners to buy a multi-group transaction in a retail portfolio to have doubts? Actually, that's what I wanted to bring up. One more thing: Secretary of State Berke tried to get ahead of this question, but I still have to ask, perhaps not without reason. This is about the M4 motorway, so Brussels can start it anyway. I've written it down so that I can quote it precisely: it can move me and take over such procedures, by the way. The construction of the section of the M4 motorway between Abony and the Weapons must be examined, as we have learned that Brussels is unwilling to pay its share of the investment due to a well-founded suspicion of the market cartel. [[10.00]] It cost 4 billion forints a kilometer, Mr. Secretary of State, and this has not been noticed by any authority in Hungary. I understand that you wanted to get ahead of this question, but still, I think that on some level it just needs an explanation. In the Great Plain it costs 4 billion forints to build a kilometer of motorways, so in Western Europe they can build railway lines with an average speed of approximately 250 km/h per km. In Hungary, the motorway costs this much. Where was the Competition Authority? Why did it cost so much? If I wanted to be cynical, I could say how interesting it is to say that Hungary's money is better protected by Brussels than we realize where this is going out of our hands. Of course, there are a lot of cases that are much smaller, but because of their number, I say that the Competition Authority should at least signal to the government, or it could bring the government into a legislative position, as well as Parliament, because there are a lot of announcements, even in terms of the number of contracts for shared holiday rights, in the case of companies advertising pharmaceuticals, medicinal products, in the case of product presentations, in relation to the number of complaints, where we believe that the Office can call the government and, through the government, the Parliament, that it is possible that there is a legislative imperative here, but it is the same with regard to national tobacco shops, where a large number of complaints have been received, and almost none of them have been considered as favourable. In a few words, let me respond to what has been said before me. I have already responded to Congressman Vantara in a few words. I am pleased if you see the Hungarian tendering and investment system as predictable. I think it's too predictable. For the past four years, you've known exactly who would win if someone applied. It was also known that if someone wanted to win, which company they had to connect to, which company they had to take it with in a consortium, and this company had incredible abilities, because it was fantastic almost everywhere - in capacity, not only in capacity, but also in capacity. I think, Congressman, that this kind of predictability is no longer the market's favorite. That's the kind of predictability the market hates when a company or group of companies can take everything down. I understand that all of a sudden this company has become your opponent, or the owner of this company, but we still have to face the past period. That's the predictable market I wouldn't think was right. With regard to the fine imposed: to say that it is effective because it has imposed many fines, no, the penalty is the consequence; what holds me back is that it is irresistible. Who's been fined? This company, the Public Machine, has certainly not been examined once by the GVH, and has certainly not been punished. Mr President, I agree that there is a need to improve competition culture, and on the basis of what I have said, I believe that there really is not enough 120 people to do this to increase competition culture in Hungary or to increase the fair procedure of companies. I think it takes more than 120 people to do this, and this kind of education process is now being started from a distance beyond where we started it at the time of the regime change, so it's your job, and I think it's very, very important in this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-01-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-01-11	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. Law 36 In accordance with paragraph 2 (c) of Section 2 of the Act of Accession, the President of the Hungarian Competition Authority submitted his report on the activities of the GVH in 2013. It is clear from the report that 109 new cases were opened before the Competition Authority in 2013 and 118 procedures were completed and two follow-up investigations, i.e. 120 cases in total, were closed. With regard to initial procedures, consumer protection-type cases accounted for the highest percentage of proceedings, 62 such cases were launched, 31 cases of merger proceedings, 5 cases of abuse of dominant positions and 15 cases of restrictive agreements. With regard to the procedures, it must be stated that the 120 people with whom Mr President has said that the GVH is working must work hard to deal with these matters. We've received data on the launch of the procedures. Let's see what happened in terms of closing procedures. The majority of the cases here were also consumer protection issues, thus largely closed. In 2013, therefore, 61 of the closed cases were related to consumer protection, 15 to restrictive practices, 5 to abuse of dominant positions, 37 were subject to merger authorisation by the agency and, in addition, two follow-up investigations were carried out. I consider it important to note that, in 2013, the GVH also focused primarily on protecting the interests of consumers, promoting fair market behaviour, in order to enable consumers to benefit from competition and to make appropriate decisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let's look at the specific types of cases. Fighting cartels. The Hungarian Competition Authority considered that action against cartels was of primary importance in 2013 as they have a negative impact on the development of the entire economy, a serious and direct consumer disadvantage and a general reduction in efficiency. In 2013, the biggest fine for the financial sector was the Vj-74/2011. There was a cartel procedure in which the GVH fined HUF 9.5 billion to financial institutions involved in the agreement on the repayment of foreign exchange loans at the fixed rate. So, ladies and gentlemen, we were talking about a fine of 9.5 billion. Vj-43/2011 on the market for office supplies. In its decision, the GVH fined the companies concerned more than HUF 1 billion. Unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers are the second issue. In 2013, the GVH closed a total of 61 consumer protection-type cases, 52 of which were found to be illegal, 4 were committed by the parties to the proceedings, while the proceeding was terminated at an investigation stage for the remaining 5 proceedings. In consumer-type cases, the GVH fined a total of HUF 587 million. In 2013, the GVH received most complaints regarding the activities of consumer group organisers, as Mr President said in his report, several competition monitoring procedures were launched to examine their misleading advertisements. All of this has occurred despite the fact that new consumer groups cannot be established as of 1 January 2012. A significant number of complaints were also received by the GVH in 2013 concerning the activities of large stores, the misleading claims of health effects or health effects, and the contract offers disguised as invoices. [[10.10]] In addition to the above, the procedures for unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers mainly affected financial services, the food market, the infocommunications sector and the energy sector. The third is abuse of a dominant position. In 2013, the GVH opened proceedings in 5 cases for abuse of dominant position and closed the same number of cases. In one case, an infringement has been found in respect of completed cases, in one case an undertaking has been accepted, in two cases the proceeding has been terminated or the investigation closed once. In 2013, the GVH prioritised the promotion of the efficient functioning of local markets and sought to take action on all issues where the regulation left sufficient room for competition action. This is also the case for a regional water supply undertaking, which was launched against Vj-43/2012. The GVH concluded that it had abused its dominant position when it imposed an excessive premium on adjutant meters between 1 March and 31 December 2011. A repeated procedure has been concluded with an undertaking in proceedings against two credit institutions. The subject of the case was the conduct of one of the procedures under which the mortgage loan product sold at the time of the contract with a zero-percent prepayment and end-payment fee, but these fees were increased to 3.6 per cent by unilateral contractual amendment, in several stages and in the end. So, ladies and gentlemen, you can see how important the GVH is for consumer protection purposes. Fourth, merger control, merger control. In total, 37 fusion cases were decided by the GVH in 2013, of which 30 applications were assessed in simplified procedures. Full procedure was required in five cases, one of which was imposed on a concentration. An infringement and a fine were imposed once due to late submission of an application for a conflict of interest. The concentrations assessed by the GVH affected several industries in 2013. Of these, transactions between retail shops started in 2012, which continued in the first half of 2013, so nearly a third of last year's closed cases, 11 cases, were included. The assessment of the concentration in the environment in Hungary was also of particular importance, which meant a transaction under investigation in a full-scale procedure and the only intervention in 2013. In addition, the most important transaction in 2013 took place in the energy market. In total, four fusion cases were dealt with by the GVH for energy markets. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is clear from all of this that the activity of the GVH is quantifiablely useful for the economy, society and individual people, for our individual citizens. The GVH's competitive activity would bring financial benefits to consumers, and without the GVH's intervention, the products and services concerned would obviously have been more expensive. Consumers saved at least HUF 58 billion due to the operation of the GVH in the period 2008-12. This saving of HUF 58 billion does not include the benefits of consumer protection procedures, the impact of deterrents and wider benefits such as competition and competitiveness. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, I propose to the Parliament that the report of the GVH for 2013 and the proposal for a decision of the Economic Committee be adopted, in particular with regard to the compliance of the GVH report with the requirements of the legislation, and to give a thorough and detailed account of the competitive market processes, trends and the competition monitoring procedure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-01-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-13	Mr President, Dear House, If I may be so subjective, it is one of my favorite agendas that comes back to us year after year in connection with this report. With regard to the material that we are about to hear, I must say that it is not the activity of the Competition Authority that can be most criticised by those who wish to criticize it. I am not on the side of criticism every time something is good, we acknowledge it, but the GVH report shows a strong picture of the government economic policy that has been very, very far from fair competition in recent years, and obviously the recommendations and opinions of the GVH respond to this - in some cases very accurately, very well, very hard, in other cases, incompletely. As the President indicated in the brief discussion held before the Economic Committee, a slightly stronger proportion of the GVH's activities may be detected in terms of consumer protection issues. At the same time, it is precisely this consumer protection that unfortunately has become the stepchildren of the current government. So, quite amazingly, in the previous government cycle, we had a separate consumer protection committee, for example, where, from foreign exchange credit issues, many things could be discussed by consumer groups, and interestingly, the government had to see how many unspoken areas, how many unresolved problems lie in here. What were you doing in 2014? It integrated this Consumer Protection Committee into the Economic Committee and removed the possibility of a separate Consumer Protection Committee operating further. At the same time, the entire consumer protection system was cut up, melted back and forth, and a very large slice was added to the MNB. So when I make a point here, I don't necessarily want to criticize the work of the GVH, but I need to address both government action and the response to this - quote - on the subject. You can see that what most disturbs the conditions of the competition market in Hungary, even if I say that protectionist economic policy does exist within today's European Union, it is whether someone has done something in Hungary against the dominant position of large supermarket chains vis-à-vis Hungarians, and if they have done so, how much it was worth. Moreover, the GVH's activities also raise the question of how effectively it has investigated this area and how clearly it can see other processes distorting market and more precisely market processes. We see that in recent weeks, when a billion-dollar penalty has been imposed, let us say, in the case of one of the large foreign supermarket chains, it is only in relation to the abuse of suppliers, when we see that Hungarian suppliers are constantly being destroyed by these foreign networks, that there is a strong sense of shortage, as it has been going on in Hungary for 25 years that a foreign banking system and its network have been financing - in many cases with our own money - multinational companies with a foreign background and their network, while the domestic entrepreneur, small business operator, supplier has been trying to stay on their feet with a continuous competitive disadvantage, lack of capital, lack of credit, but this is not always successful. In these circumstances, it is interesting that the government, the supervisory system and all related units should allow these suppliers to continue to be abused. The so-called shelving money has already ceased at around the regulatory level, so it should not be mentioned in principle in Hungary. However, we see that if a Hungarian supplier wants his product advertisement to appear on the internet and store of the given network, they are obliged to pay additional amounts. [[10.20]] If you want your product to appear in an exposed place either in advertisements or in front of customers in particular, you will be obliged to pay additional fees, if appropriate indirectly. And we are also seeing the same distortion of competition process, say, in relation to Sunday's closure, which here, humiliatingly, we had to continue a night's debate yesterday. Some of the other people who participated in this yesterday were not very much government representatives, three were present during the peak period: one was a notary, the other was in the State Secretary's seat, and the only Happy István tried to excuse the inexcusable, but humiliatingly could not create a real debate there either. However, we have seen that the market processes, the characteristics of the competition that would be expected in such a case, are not at least a competitive disadvantage for the Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur, shopkeeper, employer or even the employee, and the government does not realise that it creates an untenable, impossible situation in relation to Sunday's closure. Obviously, this is not a question directly related to the reporting of the period concerned, but we are talking about market imbalances that existed in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. Back to the subject of the report. Along the lines of the so-called "Hungarian product" regulations and interventions related to Hungarian products, I very much miss certain kinds of comments, certain kinds of criticisms, as we recall that progress has been made, and in 2010 more than a dozen types of trademarks allowed me to conclude that this is a Hungarian product. Here in Parliament, I showed a laureate letter from Turkey, there on the back of the product a little bit, that it was a place of origin: Turkey, and a very large red-white-green logo at the beginning, with a Hungarian label, as the trademark law allowed it to be written on basically anything, regardless of the origin, country, along with the last intervention, that it had become a Hungarian product, which, where appropriate, became a finished product in Hungary by 5 percent. It can be said that there has been some purification since then, even though Brussels is binding your hand in this area, it is once again distorting competition market processes, and it is again making it almost impossible for consumers, consumers, to get to know their customers, so we are not seeing enough progress here either. Crossing over slightly to other waters: the fines imposed on bank termination payments of around ten billion clearly show that competition market processes are again distorted, intervention and sanctions have taken place. The question should be - compared - how this sanction is related to the revenue that the banks, financial institutions concerned have received, whether they have had any reversibility or a deterrent effect on subsequent bank manipulations. I claim that no, and in many cases the fine alone in the case of financial institutions, in the case of supermarket chains, is simply beaten down on customers, beaten down on consumers, and, worst of all, beat down on employees. Such extensive market calculations have been made that in the case of a Tesco or in the case of a larger chain of stores, a fine of a few billionaires will be repaid for the entire chain of stores in what hours, so how many hours of traffic should be generated plus to eliminate the fine that, in any case, has been paid for an undue income of ten billion; it is not the chain of stores that I have mentioned, in fact, that I could mention any of them. But we can also see that the penalty imposed on the bank's final repayment is a very small slice of this cake, as it is a decade-old phenomenon that no matter what consumer abuse the banks commit, the result is usually that they are trying to involve them in public burdens, and then when they see that they have to pay a few billion, a few ten billion forints, then annual card fees increase, some transaction costs increase. In many cases, the government assists with a pathetic struggle, such as the imposition of a transaction fee, when a large-scale communication has been used to suggest that the financial institutions concerned will be subject to public burdens, this revenue will be missed by the banks, the state register will be increased, and such improvements will be made. When the stakeholders themselves admitted in a communication that they not only passed the transaction fee in its entirety, but also in many cases exceeded it, for example, for small business operators, both comments and intervention were cancelled, and the government struggled as a helpless duck; it has been the case ever since. In fact, they are trying to make the public aware that a new tax has been introduced for the transaction fee, which the population has to swallow, but this is again very far from what could otherwise be called pure market competition under normal national economy conditions. We also have to say that 106 laws have reached the GVH and comments have been made on 45. Here, the President's criticism of the lack of time is entirely justified. You could have 1200 or 12 thousand excellent experts, even if the government continued its legislative work in such a way as to reveal something on the weekend, then a vote on a departure from house rules will take place on Monday, and then we will vote on it at nine on Tuesday morning, it will be impossible to prepare and it will be impossible to give a meaningful opinion. At the same time, this does not take away the possibility and cannot be invoked when we talk about the fact that, in relation to these very high-priority, racially serious cases, there is a need to be made public and to make the toughest possible comments on the distortion of market processes that are unsustainable. Let us give one or two examples of this in relation to the circle debt. For example, in the asphalt industry, it is typical of intermediary companies with 8-10 employees taking away a large part of the principal amount of revenue, tender money, if any, the various printings, and finally of the contractor, or even worse, they do not pay the contractor. Let me not bring up dramatic and tragic examples that have led to the suicide of those affected or to the breakdown of families. These are well-known things, but perhaps the Hungarian national economy in the region is the one that intervened in these harmful processes at the weakest level, and the least attempted recovery. As an Óbudai, I have to mention, for example, the case of the Megyeri Bridge, where we know that people have literally lost their lives by the incomplete intervention of the supervisory system, the government's delays, and also that our economy was simply not prepared for such a trivial situation, although unfortunately this is in the system, that if there is a lack of legislation, then there is a possibility that no one will be paid, and if there is no penalty, not only competition will be distorted, but once again, people's lives will be ruined. The development of competition culture could and could therefore be a priority. Here again, I would like to ask the question of what specific issues, along with specific drafts, the competition authority wanted to support in this field of activity and whether it has sufficient resources to do so; we have already received a partial reply at Commission level that the President finds the resource system to be very satisfactory. I would always increase this a little during the budgetary period, because there is always room for improvement, not only for competition culture, but also for some way in which this whole issue should be included in the education system. I know that the Hungarian National Bank has been experimenting with this, but we consider the impact of these to be minimal. The question arises as to whether, where appropriate, there is any consultation with the National Bank on this matter, so does the GVH know from within, from outside, indirectly, to help directly with this work. And the head of the Competition Authority also mentioned that, when interfering in the context of the round-ups or in connection with the proceeds of the intermediary companies, the court would not give its immediate blessing on suspicion, let us say, the raids, but only if they could provide concrete evidence. This may be justified in some respects, but in many cases it also eliminates the possibility of intervention in trivial situations; this can be addressed by appropriate legislative proposals. I ask whether such recommendations have been made, whether they have been consulted on how they would be able to do so in fully visible cases - when the evidence is not in hand, it should only be investigated - to ensure that the court does not interfere with the conduct of investigations. And we have to mention that we are in the European Union - sometimes we say that, unfortunately, we are making critical comments, but it is obvious that there are advantages and disadvantages; I see a lot more disadvantages, but this may still be a question of debate, while the government is pushing forward the task of preparing an EU balance sheet - and we can see that states are subventioning the activities of certain economic operators, paying state aid, but, in terms of the tendering system, yes, the system was transparent, and the diagnosis was perfect, which I have heard before me: it can be seen in advance that it will win. There is a question as to whether the Competition Authority does not miss a monitoring system which, after its establishment, would be transparent as to why these sources of tender will only come down to a certain circle, how this significant amount of public money could be analysed more effectively, and why some economic operators should have access to tender sources and others should not. [[10.30]] I'm sorry, why is it that people who have good relations with politicians, entrepreneurs can have access to tender sources, others can't. I would even like to point out to Mr President this absolutely justified question: do you agree with Jobbik's position that this process exists, that people who have good relations with politicians are easier to access certain sources of tender, while economic operators who have not so good relations with politicians are excluded from certain sources? If we can agree on this diagnosis, we may also be able to move towards therapy, and that could create a situation in which we can eliminate these amazing economic maladministrations, put small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses in a position, thereby indirectly protecting both Hungarian consumers and customers, and those tax-paying citizens who otherwise carry this country on their backs. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-01-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-01-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I made a similar comment as my colleague Z. Kárpát, so I would not so much like to deal with the report of the Competition Authority in detail, but rather with the political, governmental environment in which the Competition Authority is obliged to perform its tasks. First of all, however, like what happened a few weeks ago at the ombudsman's report, I am obliged to state here that it is quite peculiar that we are discussing a 2013 report in 2015 so that, by the way, the relevant legislation says that Parliament should be consulted within a year of submission. I am obliged to say this again because, as a single party, the LMP has not agreed that the reports, which is a constitutional guarantee, will be transferred to a committee by the plenary session. What I see is that the accounts of the various independent institutions, companies, organisations established by the State - Media Council, Public Procurement Council and the rest - can be cut off from the plenary session, and this is also a violation of a guarantee rule, and it is also that the accounts of the Economic Competition Authority or the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights cannot be discussed within a year. It is also important to say this because, as in the Ombudsperson's report, we are faced with the fact that there is much more in the minds of the people and Members than in the course of the period under consideration, if we only look at competition policy in the year 2013, and perhaps the lessons learned from the year 2013 would indeed have been worth drawing conclusions from it in the previous period. Nevertheless, if you look at the story from afar, it is clear that the Hungarian Competition Authority is basically a fresh spot in the state system, its professionalism remains, and it would work well if it were left by the power. First of all, I would like to say that we see fair competition as the current power, for the fifth year, the government considers it to be some kind of neoliberal thing, which is the decline of the West. [[Gyula Vantara: I agree!]] And that's why... you might agree with that, and obviously your colleague Pócs agrees, because he's a great fisherman in this situation, but the weird thing is that cartel and antitrust measures aren't just protecting big companies, they're protecting small and medium-sized enterprises, local economies. So there is the government and the Fidesz-KDNP majority in a self-contrast that fair competition, anti-antitrust, anti-cartel rules guaranteeing fair competition are not good for multinational companies, they are not good for the oligarchs, they are not good for large investors, but fair competition protects small businesses, relatively low-capital enterprises, the local economy. The difference between the government's economic policy approach and the LMP's economic policy approach is that you, the Fidesz-KDNP, are essentially trying to put certain businesses in the position, and that is why you are interfering with the competition rules from case to case. On the other hand, we believe that, based on a vision of the future, we should develop sectors based on the vision of renewable Hungary. If we develop sectors, it has an important role to play in this policy, and an Economic Competition Authority can play an important role, because if the conditions of fair competition are guaranteed by an independent authority, it is really possible to develop sectors effectively. If, on the other hand, government policy is about how to build certain businesses, warranties, Mészáros-birodalomok, Andy Vajna-birodok, there will be no place or role for the Hungarian Competition Authority, there will be no role, because neither will fair competition itself. Dear Parliament, It is worth looking at specific areas where the government intervened in specific cases recently and thus in 2013. It should be noted that when it intervenes in individual cases, the government intervenes in individual markets in a specific case, in practice, the GVH, the competition authority, eliminates the importance of this. Let us consider such cases. On 27 August 2012, the Hungarian Competition Authority launched a competition monitoring procedure against Aldi, Auchan, CBA, Lidl, Spar, Tesco Global stores, the Hungarian Dynasty Association and the Hungarian Interprofessional Organisation and Product Council, as they were presumed to agree on the prices applicable from mid-July 12 on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the non-discriminating pricing of melons produced outside Hungary. In the autumn of 2012, the individual intervention came this way: the Parliament amended the interbranch law. Of course, not with a government proposal, of course, not in agreement with the GVH, as otherwise required by the Competition Act, but with a miracle who was the author: if you are guessing, do not think of Imre Vas, because in this case our fellow Member János Pócs, as a major melon exporter, was the author of the bill. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] That means... Well, I'm sure you're not bored. Therefore, even in ongoing cartel proceedings concerning agricultural products [[János Pócs intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] the GVH is obliged to consult the Minister for Rural Development in order to ensure the applicability of domestic competition law and to continue its proceedings only on the basis of that position. The GVH contacted the rural development portfolio and, according to its reply, it was not possible to establish the 1996 LVII. Article 11 As regards the conduct under consideration, the infringement provided for in Article 4 of this Regulation. The amendment of the interbranch law, therefore lex Pócs also excludes Tpv. sanctions for cartel infringements in respect of agricultural products. Although the Ministerial Resolution does not affect the applicability of EU law, it also seeks to limit the possibility of imposing sanctions in respect of Article 101 of the EU Treaty. The GVH considered in April 2013 that the procedure for declaring an infringement without legal consequences should not lead to a substantial improvement in the conditions of competition under the present circumstances. In this, the GVH is absolutely right. According to the GVH, the current regulatory situation creates legal uncertainty in the assessment of cartels for agricultural products. In view of this, the GVH terminated its proceedings. We could say another market, of course. This is not a 13, indeed, but later, but the public market robbery has already started quite early, and the state intervention in individual cases has also started already in 2010, it was not by accident that the rapid transformation of the GVH took place in the summer of 2010. An individual intervention case was to save the garbage cartel. A truly elegant solution was put into the Environmental Product Fee Act so that the GVH could not examine the waste management public procurement issued in 2012-13. This paragraph is a real legislative gem as to how the system of national cynicism works. The relevant Act 22/C. According to §, pay close attention: the 1996 LVII cannot be established. Law 11 of the Competition Act. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Union has decided to impose an obligation on the Member States to adopt a measure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in respect of the conduct of the procurement procedures set out in the OGYHT in 2012-13. [[10.40]] Why did a man who had a garbage cart in 12-13 get pardoned? There's no answer to that. But what you can see is that where there are such legislative moves, the GVH is merely a set and fair competition, which, by the way, protects Hungarian SMEs and the local economy, we cannot talk about. After that, the amendment entered into force from January, the competition supervision cannot determine the infringement in its procedures in waste collection and recovery tenders. Such an investigation was initiated in one case, and was initiated by the Authority against Alcufer Kft., Fe-Group Invest Zrt. and Selector Kft., as well as against the Electronic Waste Management Ltd. However, the procedure has to be terminated under the Product Charge Act, as the amendment provided that the ban on dismissal also applies to cases already under way and so on. I think it was quite black belt impertinence on the part of the Parliament at that time. Thus, under these circumstances, the Hungarian Competition Authority is hardly able to fulfil its vocation. But we can talk about the bank cartel. Here's what's happening: here, the GVH mostly plays the role of the steering wheel. At the end of November 13, the Hungarian Competition Authority punished banks for HUF 9.5 billion because they allegedly agreed on a business morning to raise interest rates on the underlying loans. And business breakfast has been regular for several years, according to analysts. In itself, the punishment is, of course, justified, and the procedure of the GVH is correct. After that, let's see how the fine is distributed between individual banks: OTP has to pay nearly 4 billion, K&H has to pay 1.7 billion, the Savings Bank has to pay a penalty of 1 million, and the FHB, which is otherwise a major player in mortgage lending, has escaped the procedure without a fine. Dear Parliament, In this context, of course, there is also a need to mention what is currently happening in the MET case. MET entered the Hungarian energy market, the gas market, and founded a joint venture with Magyar Telekom with its secret contract with MVM, the state-owned Hungarian Electricity Works Ltd. The latter transaction will be completed in the second half of 15 - this is what the newspapers say is that even the approval of the authorities concerned is necessary - we look forward to the developments. Currently MET acquired the gas business of GDF by allowing it to do so, while MET is also part of the government's economic background and has quite significant offshore relations. Another story emerges in one of the markets where we see that the current governing party continues the policy that the offshore coalition has been pursuing since 1990 to pump the income generated by Hungarian people and businesses here, Hungary, through offshore channels. In addition, placing MET in the position will destroy the state but otherwise profitable MVM Zrt., which is now producing serious losses. I know that this is not part of the year 13; I mentioned as an example that otherwise the GVH should also be on a very tight schedule, because the GVH has the hope that it might be able to stop it, to prevent a completely naughty public market robbery. After all, as I said, the current government policy does not want to develop sectors, it wants to put certain businesses, certain oligarch groups in place. After all, as we see, there are oligarchs in the system of national cooperation, now not Lajos Simicska and Zsolt Nyerges, but there are many others who want to take their position. These include the MET that can be classified as the Garanchi interest. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to talk about what, I think, is one of the most important tasks of the GVH which directly affect people, and this is the consumer protection functions of the GVH. I believe that the GVH acted effectively in 2013 in complaints concerning the organisers of consumer groups. I would particularly like to mention the announcements about the activities of large stores or the contract offers disguised as invoices, or the GVH's particular attention to the protection of vulnerable consumers, according to its own report. In this context, however, I would also like to ask competition supervision to go up to the wall and try to make proposals for the legislator, Parliament and the government on how the most vulnerable consumer groups could be protected from a completely impertinent commercialism view, how the most vulnerable consumer groups could be protected from the unfair practices of the various trade chains, the various multi-enterprises who regard this country as a simple free-robbing ground. It appears that the organisation and effectiveness of the Consumer Protection Authority have been continuously being developed over the past ten years. In this respect, I think that the GVH would have very important tasks to do in protecting simple consumers - the simple consumers who are forced to face large companies. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2015-04-01-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member is not in the Chamber, so they did not wish to speak on the agenda. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group.
u2015-04-01-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very grateful to Dániel Z. Kárpát that he mentioned the question of the Megyeri Bridge, because I think it is a good example of how it can happen, while there are relatively good regulations on how to deal with the state, why nothing will happen for years, while people's tragedy is happening. In the end, it was found at Megyeri Bridge that the claim for subcontractors was more money than could otherwise have been paid out to subcontractors. But it can be said that III. As district representatives, we meet every day in cases where we can face the fact that the Consumer Protection Authority at human level, let us say, is so ineffective. Despite the fact that you have made legislation that pleases me otherwise, for example, in the Ptk. it is a poor performance that, if there is no information in Hungarian at the product, as a representative, I also have complaints on a daily basis that aim to do so, and I think that there is still room for progress in the area of consumer protection. Just as it is very interesting what many people have talked about and insisted that the question is not always what the Competition Authority has done, but what it has not done. So where was the Competition Authority when, with the cooperation of the Fidesz municipalities, virtually large, mammoth advertising monopolies were created with Lajos Simicska's companies, with the small-taffirunging and others? Where was the Competition Authority when the Local Theme, operated by the Vitézy clan, has built its tentacles since then, and is practically living in a monopoly position in the municipal advertising market? Where was the Competition Authority when certain fidesz clans appear and become monopolistic every day? I think the whole country is waiting for an answer, and I think that sooner or later we will have to face it. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-04-01-18	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the LMP Group.
u2015-04-01-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to connect with what László Kiss has just said, that, on the one hand, as regards the Megyeri Bridge, we also raised in the civil code debate that, when such large enterprises contract with SMEs and micro-enterprises, there should be very strict payment deadlines. This is not just consumer protection, it is supplier protection, so the best way to be sure is to destroy small domestic businesses and existentials, if these large investors actually pay when they like it. Consumer protection rules are also in the Civil Code, and that is the foot of the whole consumer protection, which is why I think it would be useful if the Hungarian Competition Authority, for example, was the new Ptk in relation to the new civil law. state its position on consumer protection rules. And the other thing that my fellow Member Kiss mentioned is that now that the Orbán-Simicska era is over, and the Fidesz communication, the Habony works, are now trying to make it look like that Lajos Simicska is the evil one, who every decent orange person has to hate, I think it's time to take back. [[10.50]] For example, I would recommend to the GVH to launch a targeted investigation to put the Simicska Nyerges empire, the Public Machine and its countryside, in the position of the Orbán-Simicska government in Hungary between 2010 and 2014. Because we don't want to believe that Lajos Simicska is an independent factor and is practically an enemy of the Fidesz government. He was the biggest beneficiary of the first four years of Fidesz governance between 2010 and 2014. And the fact is that an economic interest was tried by law by Parliament, causing very serious distortions in many markets. The victims of Simicska's enrichment are primarily small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-21	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that the issue of circumstantial debt has been raised in the report, less that the pro-government Member has not been very exposed on this issue recently. It is true that during the relevant period of the report, it was possible to show that the Hungarian economy was strangled by circumferential debts, and that Hungarian small and medium-sized ones were the most affected. And what we need to see is that the legislation, at the head of the government, has not been sufficiently involved in these processes, and we also see that the shortcomings of the supervisory system have also been subjected to this. The situation around the Megyeri Bridge is due to this. However, it is not a comment, idea and recommendation from me, but I would like to share with the wider public, and I would also like the opinion of the pro-government representatives on this matter, and on the other hand I would also be interested in the personal opinion of the head of the GVH that, in the case of construction, it would not make sense to set up a public authority that could intervene in the case of major or mega projects, if the Hungarian supplier is not paid there, if the Hungarian supplier or contractor is exploited for a major project, then this authority could withdraw and suspend the project, or at least impose sanctions on investors who are usually from abroad, at least to the extent that would discourage them from taking advantage of Hungarian workers and Hungarian entrepreneurs. In itself, the threat of this could lead to the fact that construction projects should not be stopped here, nor would this issue arise in reality, but if it could appear in the sanctioning system - and once again, this is not my idea, this is the recommendation of professional organisations - then, where appropriate, the competitive market conditions here could be clarified. It is unfair to talk about fair competition in Hungary, since there is no such thing in the present circumstances, but at least we should strive in this direction. Therefore, we look forward to your honored opinion on a similar idea. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. No one came forward in writing. János Pócs, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. I'll give you the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-04-01-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to start by saying this, although our fellow Member Schiffer has left, that he too has a political illness when someone always remembers the same thing about everything. I hope that our fellow Member Schiffer and his team have reached the point that melons and hay are not used to shoveling. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. President, The point of my comment is that part of the GVH's report, which is particularly about consumer protection and retail. Dear Mr. President, Of course, I know that the report is about 2013 and not about today, but the question arises: when we talk about retail and consumer protection and economic immigration, the Hungarian Competition Authority deals with Albanian bakers, for example, and against Albanian bakers, whether the Hungarian bakers and Hungarian consumers are protected by the Hungarian Competition Authority. We talk about transactions in retail shops, but we don't talk about why the reduction in fuel prices hasn't brought down the price of bread. I know, of course, that we are talking about the year 2013, and I would also like to say to Mr President that I will send you these questions in writing about today's events. We are talking about the transaction of retail shops, but we are not talking about the fact that the owners of some, mostly foreign, Albanian-owned shops have built a network. According to the news, in many cases only one family or one or two Albanian families operate in the country the Albanian shop network, which now practically destroys Hungarian bakeries, because in the settlement where an Albanian bakery opens, two Hungarians close. We don't talk about whether Albanian bakers work on the same condition. If they work on the same condition as Hungarian bakers, then how can their products get on the counters evenly 25-30 percent more expensive As the products of Hungarian bakers. We do not talk about why Albanian bakers do not employ Hungarian bakers in Hungary. We find that multinationals operating various commercial and manufacturing activities are opening up in Hungary - foreign-owned multinationals - but at least they employ Hungarians. The Albanian bakers only employ foreign Albanian bakers without exception. Does the Hungarian Competition Authority protect the interests of consumers when people with virtually unverifiable exams provide us with daily bread? The Hungarian Competition Authority cares about and protects the interests of Hungarian bakers, whether and whether it is aware that in many cases Albanian bakeries receive a lot of fines from Nébih and NAV, but these fines are not paid, but their shops will be closed in two or three years, and until then a family member will take over the business and continue their activities and thus gain a significant competitive advantage vis-à-vis Hungarian bakers? I would like to ask you if the Economic Competition Authority is concerned with why Albanian bakers are asking for more operating permits than the number of residence permits. Does this pose the risk that the Albanian bakers, causing significant economic disadvantages to Hungarian bakers, are engaged in economic activities in Hungary, which are not really intended for a decent economic livelihood, but, perhaps, presumably, only for obtaining a visa and thus causing significant damage to the Hungarian bakers and the Hungarian economy? And the question arises as to whether the Hungarian Competition Authority has dealt with the expulsion of several Albanian bakers from the country in recent years. Does the person who provides our daily bread carry some national security risk if there are people in bakeries who had to be expelled from the country? And, of course, as always, the consumer is the most important. Does the Hungarian Competition Authority deal with the fact that while the Hungarian government is working to feed and legislate, Albanian bakers produce food additives, fats and sweeteners that Hungarian bakers do not produce from a food safety point of view. Mr President, thank you for the floor, and for the President, I will also put these questions in writing and I will deliver them in the hope of his reply as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-04-01-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm not gonna talk about Albanian bakers at national security risk. I think that it may be possible with appropriate regulators on the government; but it did remind me of another matter. We started a meat factory in Baranya, which received 1.5 billion for this, but as a result 400 jobs in Pécs will be lost, because this meat plant will start elsewhere. I don't know if state intervention, competition and job creation would have been worth it if the state had interfered in this, but to intervene in the right direction. [[11.00]] But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I wanted to talk to you about something I couldn't tell you before, or at least spill it properly, even though I promised, and I want to keep it. I would take this opportunity because President Juhász is the head of the first public office we can refer to. After all, you see, as we see, that the kind of voluntarian legislation that is currently taking place in the Hungarian legislation, that individual representatives are, by the way, submitting legislative proposals or amendments concerning the large sectors of the country or the economy, which are submitted by individual representatives in order not to have to carry out conciliation mechanisms with professional organisations, administrative bodies, or to be compatible with them, or to carry out impact assessments. Obviously, everyone is aware that they do not write at home on a rainy afternoon when they have nothing else to do, but think about, say, the system of Hungarian utilities, or even the rules on tobacco wholesale, retail, special taxes in their boring hours in the evening, and see shortcomings in them. Obviously, this will be prepared elsewhere, but they will give their names to it as drafts, thereby turning off the conciliation mechanisms for which there are bodies otherwise intended, such as the office you run by Mr President. This gives an opinion, an analysis of its effects, a proposal for certain amendments, a deletion of certain rules, anything else. I have collected a few of the economic sectors in which the State has gained further influence that have been affected only in the recent period, not in the period covered by the report. Such was the legislation already mentioned, which was submitted and adopted in connection with the wholesale trade in tobacco. The special tax on tobacco dealers and tobacco manufacturers was the same, which affected a whole sector. As a Member of Pécs, my involvement in this matter does not have to be explained very much, as jobs could be put at risk. Last week we discussed the public utility service provider, which was also the motion of a Member, who, frankly, criticized me when I dared say that we should have had a broader discussion, apart from the fact that a Member would have taken himself, sit down in his girl's room alone, and write this draft legislation. And then the Fidesz fraction and the government together say that it's a good thing that you remembered, because we didn't think of it, and we really think that we can now serve the national economy and the utility service and the sustainable reduction. Well, no one thinks that's how it happened. However, I think it is a rather large market segment, the security of supply, and a large number of jobs that come into this House without any agreement. Obviously, the media market was revised at home by two representatives, Bence Tuzson and Mónika Dunai, one afternoon probably because it also came to us as an individual motion. It's just an annoying thing, because it's also about channel allocation, and so commercial taxes are excluded from the basic package. I think that this is also a market, and the advertising market is also a market, and there should also be a fair competition, as referred to by my fellow Member, Mr Vantara. Thus, it is difficult to get into fair competition if two Members at home think that this is different, and the Fidesz faction realizes that this is what was missing from the regulation that hasn't pierced anyone's eyes. And last but not least, it is a question of keeping open on Sunday, and of being sorry and keeping closed. All the amendments submitted to it showed the rush, the extra fee, the non-advantage, the take away the weekend allowance, we do not take away the weekend bonus, but yet, I am sure that there are good professionals working at the Hungarian Competition Authority, so it should be seen that all of this is a vector direction: these proposals always have a beneficiary. It doesn't matter if I'm talking about the tobacco wholesaler, I'm talking about the media market, I'm talking about the utility company, whoever I'm talking about, he always has a beneficiary, and somehow it's never the consumer. Never the consumer. Because we, who are consumers, pay the fees for goods and services, usually do not get in a better position. But not even in a safer situation, because many times they cannot explain to us that, let's say, a public service provider that is nonprofit - whatever that means, because we have heard about four explanations here - what level of security of supply will be guaranteed and whether there will be heating and drinking water everywhere. Because if he's a nonprofit, he's gonna have a hard time developing it. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would like to ask Mr President, and I am very pleased that he has said this, whether you are proposing something to the government in this regard, so that you may have more time to look at the effects of these laws on the national economy; whether you have thoughts on fair competition and security of supply. I'm sure there are. Will they do these? Is there an iteration, negotiation, reconciliation between the government and the government, but, as I just said, even when they cannot do their job and when they can do their job, rather than show that they are not so independent? Is there a negotiation, a negotiation, that they do not just seem to be able to carry out these tasks? And there's one more thing I'd like to discuss. I have heard many times today as an argument that an authority works well because it fines a lot. It's interesting, too, because there's been some news that the police have been told how much to fine. But I don't want to deal with that because I don't know if it's true. But I still think that we should just revisit it and go back to our own roots in the rule of law, that fines and penalties cannot be a goal, they cannot be a measuring instrument. That could be a consequence, fellow Members. It's a consequence of someone committing a misdemeanor. It is never the extent of what is dissuasive, it is never the extent of what deters others from doing similar acts, but its unsurpassableness. And I don't trust that. I do not trust this when there is such a state influence when a government decree can be used to exclude from anything any company which otherwise covers a very large market segment, otherwise which is fundamentally profitable and good, with a sound profit. This kind of fine practice - and I ask everyone to at least acknowledge it for themselves, at least not to lie to ourselves - is not a measure of whether an office works well. This is a measure of how much interference the state allows, sir. But I dare only ask whether there is one, and how it has been measured, what a deterrent it has been over the past period. Even during the period that the report discusses. But obviously, Mr President is also in the picture in the period after the report was negotiated, because, as our fellow Member Schiffer pointed out, we now have a very large interval, since this is a 2013 report, while it is now April 2015. What has been emphasised by many, I would also like to draw attention to once again, and I would like to ask for the answer of either Mr President or Minister of State on these matters. Of course, it is a problem that we cannot respond to each other because you will not participate in the debate, but will only give a summary at the end of the debate. But I would encourage everyone to debate, although, unfortunately, no one wants to overlook this practice, but to give a summary only at the end of the debate. With regard to the overly predictable competition rules on the market, I mean what many of us have stated here as a diagnosis, as a decisive percentage of the cases, who will be the winner of the major public investment: have they, do they make recommendations, suggestions, criticisms? And what I mean now is that content, so let's not just follow the rules in pro form, that it says that... it's not just the Public Machine that could be said here, the Prime Minister's son-in-law is going to light up all the cities now, that is, he's replacing the public lights. [[11.10]] Many times, the question arises that those who apply for the tender give advice. Such questions arise, and we do not have the right answers to them, do we not, although we believe that if there are authorities that should pay attention to this, we should rightly expect these answers. Is there such a state intervention that the Hungarian Competition Authority does not examine them with a dominant position on the margins of abuse? Whether they do something about abuse of a dominant position in public relations, or what do they do? Unfortunately, we see the drill. We see the practice that many companies, companies, are not placed in a dominant position by their ability, capacity and ability to grow to the extent that they occupy a market segment that they are capable of. No, what we see is that either by amending the laws or by taking them into a state monopoly, and then by granting them a concession, close to the government, Fidesz, companies are in a position that would not otherwise be justified by their own abilities and their own capacities. Are there any such tests? If there are tests, what are the results, and if there aren't, why aren't there? These are my questions, and thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-01-26	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. As a representative asking for a normal word, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-27	Mr President, Dear House, I have to respond in one word to what I just said. We talked about Sunday's lockdown. As I have already said, last night, in unworthy circumstances, we had to discuss very important issues first about the International Investment Bank, and then, obviously, about keeping it closed on Sunday. Here our MSZP fellow Member noted that such measures always have a beneficiary. This was true with regard to tobacco tricks and other things, but with the current catastrophic execution of Sunday's closure of the government party, I do not feel the beneficiary circle at the moment, because as the government has just done, even for small entrepreneurs and small-scale shopkeepers, this is not necessarily what has happened, who could benefit from this, if any. After all, if this small shop was not open between 5:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. in the countryside, because only the owner could stand there, but he might be in the other plant, he had already lost half of his weekend turnover. So the proposal that lies before us is inhuman at the moment. During yesterday's debate, we discussed this in a broad spectrum, that Jobbik's is a close solution between two extremist positions, so that no one can be obliged to work on Sundays, a climate must be created to make the employer's employee interested if he wants to work on Sundays. But the total ban on Fidesz and the Sunday work planned by the MSZP is not acceptable to us either. Similarly, with regard to fines, although what we have just said will obviously come before us in a next annual report, we must note that, in the context of fines, yes, it is very important to see an impact assessment. We have already seen the benefits of GVH's activities. Here we have an estimate of tens of billions on the paper. It is very good that we see this, and we can draw conclusions from this, but with regard to the deterrent effect of fines, if there is one, it is indeed not, and I also support the existence of such a form of sanction, but we have an example. We told Mr. Secretary of State Cséfalvay here several years ago, he didn't take it very well then, but let's be clear: the estimated revenue of one Tesco store per hour was around HUF 9 million, according to the calculations. Thus, the few fines of ten million, the fines of 100 million to 200 million, can be refunded in practically hours and days with minimum pass-on, with minimum price adjustments, virtually zeroing the items that should be imposed on these companies. So it is certain that there is not always a deterrent to this instrument. But there was a better amendment in the previous term, the effects of which should otherwise be seen in the GVH's annual report, but we do not see it. This amendment was specifically one of the few amendments to the food sector, in the case of consumer abuse, that went through Jobbik, allowing a fine of billions. And once again, in the previous cycle, perhaps if I could list three proposals that were passed by the two-thirds majority. That was one of them. Our huge problem, by the way, is what we said at the Economic Committee's meeting that our same proposal in the field of financial consumer protection, for example, to increase the fine amount, was no longer supported, although if it had been supported in favour of our other 23 proposals in 2010, then we should not be having long debates about the Quaestor scandal on a daily basis. We have to say that there are two other issues that may not have come to us at the level of their weight. One is the issue of consumer groups, where the Competition Authority conducted very detailed investigations. By the way, its conclusions stand, the error is not his, but that of the legislator, who made it impossible to register new groups for the future, but did not suspend the operation of the old ones. We see that there are relatively few such groups now, but the circle of victims can be considered wide until it covers more than one person; even if it covers one person. We can therefore say that the operation of these companies has not yet been fully understood, and it is in question whether the Competition Authority sees processes that can help this situation, or whether the injured party is satisfied with what has happened so far. In my opinion, what has happened so far in this area is very incomplete. And there is a very acute problem, where I miss the very hard, comprehensive examination, opinion, quote-marking of the Competition Authority, and I also miss the government's action. And this is practically a very wide range of industries specialising in cheating the elderly. We are talking about product shows, we are talking about deceiving elderly people, salting hundreds of thousands of forints of useless products on them, which you can pay in installments. A complete mafia was formed in Hungary. Until recently, this has worked essentially undisturbed. Our better-looking activists, our local representatives, have begun to attend these product presentations, made the necessary announcements to the authorities, and see wonder if there was anyone there, once again, simple activists, these product presentations, cheating, scam shows could be stopped on the spot. Our elderly compatriots could be protected from being victims of similar scams. Obviously, though, this should not necessarily be done by better activists. This is a matter of official duties, and the tasks and responsibilities of the legislation arise, and it is therefore expected that a Competition Authority can respond to such broad spectrum cases, have a meaningful opinion on them; suggest intervention, if appropriate, even if it does not make the laws. But we need to see that much more than thousands of our countrymen are affected by this problem. We could raise a number of other questions and raise a number of questions that both of us and my fellow Member János Volner did at the meeting of the Economic Committee. We have already talked about some of the contractors that have been subjected within the European Union, but in the same way I would like to say a few words about the abuse of the food chain inspection fee, as my fellow Member will certainly reflect more on the market for gambling and a infringement procedure. But in the context of the food chain inspection fee, we are talking about an instrument that companies with a billion-dollar turnover, if properly diversifying their business structure, can indeed avoid, while small players may be unduly affected. It can be seen that we have already indicated these problems here during the parliamentary debate, but now there is experience from which we could build further, but I do miss the amendments that, once again, would prevent companies with billions of dollars in turnover, often with foreign backgrounds, from being exempted from public burdens merely by the clever division of their group of companies. That's what this is about. Not only is it the responsibility of the legislator and the government, not only the responsibility of the legislator and the responsibility of the government, but it will certainly also be the responsibility of the Competition Authority to make its recommendations and comments in this regard for the period concerned. At the same time, I would already like to see Mr President's personal opinion on whether there is a position on these billion-dollar items, if so, on what improvements he could imagine. I would also like to ask your opinion, as I asked the pro-government representatives, whether the possibilities of intervention by a public authority in the construction sector are reasonable and justified. [[11.20]] I myself would see the establishment of such an organization and the tremendous expansion of its powers of intervention as justified. It would be nice if we could get ahead of ourselves on these issues. I see that the GVH is working on material, because it is not he who is pouring us the laws from which, out of the more than a hundred laws, he could only comment on forty in the absence of time and because the government is kicking through Parliament in three days measures that should or could be debated for three months. But what we see is that there are these issues calling for a solution, they come to us practically every year, and it is expected that we can finally move forward in these areas. So I look forward to all of you having a meaningful answer and participation in the debate. I have rather doubts about the latter, since, although several of the committees concerned have been sitting here, they have not yet increased their voice. But my request is to respect this very important subject, where we are trying to cover the spectrum of the entire national economy by at least sharing their honest views with us. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This would have been a two-minute speech if Congressman Z. Carpath hadn't taken his application out of the machine. But as no one else comes forward, we will return to the comments requesting the normal word and give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to comment briefly on one or two points. Dániel Z. Kárpát, who was speaking before me, said in his keynote speech and in his other speeches what Jobbik thought of this proposal in broad terms, and my fellow Member, János Volner, will also comment on it. So allow me to highlight one or two points that bother me as a lawyer, or I'm glad that there is a suggestion, less that the Parliament or other law enforcement agencies have done nothing to take over the proposals of the GVH. So my comment will not be complete, please allow me to predict this in advance. We can see that the amount of fines imposed in restrictive cases shows very strong fluctuations. Here, my colleague from the MSZP, who spoke before me, raised the question of whether it would be good for a public authority to impose a lot of fines. In some cases it is good, in some cases it is not possible to say this diplomatically, but we have seen - back to the Hungarian reality - that companies that receive this could often bear a greater fine. And here we are not thinking of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, but, above all, of the financial sector, in which the bank, insurance sector or large multi-chain. As my fellow Member Z. Karpat said very well, there is such a terrible revenue in these sectors that the fine of a few million dollars, which some authorities, not only the GVH, but also other authorities, are fined, is quite simply comical when we listen to the radio and say as such a good news that one authority, say, punishes organisations that are the largest insurance companies, financial corporations, major banks in Hungary, they want to laugh out of necessity. So, in some cases, there is a need for deterrent fines, because there is the amount that makes these companies think about. By the way, this is a practice in the West, so it is all the more so in the European Union and in America that it is okay to impose billions of dollars in fines and not shake the hands of the authorities. So in this respect, it is okay that the GVH is also moving forward. And there are cases, yes, in Hungary too, and if we want to ensure the conditions of free market and market competition, then often large companies, mammoth companies, companies with significant dominant positions on the market must be involved, their cooperation and cartelisation must be judged, and in these cases a few million forints are more likely to be able to do it calmly in the future, because there is no consequence, or if there is, it is very minimal. The fact that it shows such fluctuations, regardless of - I am referring to the restrictive cases - is that in 2011 we are talking about HUF 84.5 million, in 2013 we are talking about more than HUF 10 billion, but also in 2010 HUF 9.5 billion, this may be explained, but it is a bit interesting. Obviously, an explanation of the figures can be found factually, but an office, I think - and I know that this may also be addressed to the predecessors - has to produce numbers that make its operation predictable in some way, and in the future, let us put it this way, if we look at these reports - and we are talking about a new legal environment now - then we would like to see that some of these fines show a predictable trend, even a predictable increase, as this will mean to the market, as it usually means that the office is operating in a normal order, or that some practices begin to run on a daily basis. Of course, it is possible to argue that this is good or not, and here in Parliament we will also have professional debates on where to tighten up, where to alleviate, but in any case trends must be seen. I consider the fines imposed on consumers for unfair commercial practices to be low. Thus, as an outsider and a lawyer, I think that half a billion forints have been imposed, that in the future - I do not know how the numbers 14 will turn out - this could be improved. And here we are thinking, in particular, of the big companies, or the misleading behaviours that my fellow Member has said, or what the report quite rightly says and raises, for example, the advertising of medicinal products, the misleading practice of preparations. This is also annoying because I myself, on the Internet, on large portals, so not on such nooking portals, I always clicked on and looked at what these fake ads, let's put it this way, lead to or try to deceive people. I could see that the same product, which was proven to be a deception, is usually such consumer drugs and vitamins, but consumer drugs are mostly used - and this is also reported by the GVH as one of the biggest target groups - to adjust it as if it were some kind of magical drug, to take it, and then there will be no more problems. And then we can see that it's redirected to another website, and then there's an active ingredient that if you want to quit, you offer that you can get it only today, then you can get it at half the price, and when, I guess, the authorities are looking into this thing, or they start some kind of investigation, they disappear, and in a few days, they might show up on the same website under a different name, another active substance, another packaging, but they promise the same miracles. And the reason why people have such an understandable attitude is that what appears, say, on a national Internet portal, is more confident, because they believe that there can be a serious capital behind it, because it can pay for these advertisements, and it would probably also be for the authorities if they acted like a fraud. And often with a very similar design, these still appear. I would add that in the proposal, as I have said, there is - and this is an honest face to face with the matter - that because of the characteristics of the supply, the GVH is unable to catch these illegal food supplements and consumer products in every case. If that is the case, then either the GVH has to expand the specialised personnel set up for this, or it has to involve other law enforcement agencies, as in many cases this could be a fraud, so the prosecution would have to do it here. I don't know what kind of cooperation there is, let's say, with the prosecutor's office or the DA's office in these cases, but this is so business-like, by moving large amounts of money that means advertising money or even revenue, and it's likely and apparently operating from the same groups, that it's certainly a series of large-scale frauds that goes beyond the GVH and other law enforcement agencies, such as the prosecution. And I'm very glad that, by the way, the problem has appeared in the report and that this goes beyond the GVH's legal framework and resources. We very much hope that other offices and authorities will be partners in this. It is proposed that the infringement of tenders entails compulsory exclusion of participation in public procurement procedures. I think it's a good way to make sure there's a stronger penalty. This could, of course, be based on a legal debate, but we could see that, and this was a practice before 2010, and even before 2010, there was practice, so we could see that after two thirds of the Fidesz won the elections, the socialist buddies were excluded from the economic background, so before 2010 - this is not even our criticism of the GVH, now towards the political system - the 70-30 system worked very well, no matter who is on the government, he took 70 percent of the investment and 30 percent of the opposition party, the big opposition party, which, if it was to replace the then ruling party, will also provide the same. [[11.30]] This has been seen in cases - and I could mention the Megyeri Bridge, of course - where we still can't see those responsible, and the small people's money, the small entrepreneurs' money has disappeared, while the large companies, which the media and not us, but the mainstream media, have also had a professional media link to Fidesz and the MSZP on the one hand, these companies not only got away with and escaped criminal liability, but they have been able to start public procurement in many cases, even though decisions have been made in similar cases that, let's say, a company couldn't have started such procedures, but they still appeared. So we could not see the results and the consequences themselves and not to mention that, of course, politics had no interest in revealing these matters. Well, why would it be when both parties, the interest groups linked to Fidesz and the MSZP, were involved, then who would have brought up these cases? Since then, much has changed, including Jobbik is here in Parliament, and we also want those responsible for these matters, accountability and legal background, if they are created, and even the GVH can play a very big role even now and in the future. I would like to mention one more proposal, which is also an old canopy, and it is included in the material - much could be said, but I would like to point out this - this is the commercial practice for children under 12 years of age, so advertising and advertisements targeting children under 12 years of age, convince your parents to buy this or that, and the GVH is calling for more action against it, and even calls for a legislative amendment. I very much hope that the Parliament will accept these proposals, because they will also get to the point that there is a need for a significant restriction or complete prohibition of advertising for this target group, children, because these children cannot be influenced in such a way. As we know, parents have less and less time to deal with children, and this is also due to the changes in labour law in Hungary, which is also due to the fact that it is increasingly possible to eviscerate families or workers. It is thanks to the fact that you can no longer make a living from a job, despite Viktor Orbán's promise, but unfortunately we didn't get there, but parents have to work on a shift of one and a half or two, and the child is forced to live in front of the TV, the entertainment that he has given you, and indeed these commercials and these big companies - again, we only got to the multinational companies - are using it. They take advantage of this, that if the parent can't watch TV anymore, and if the parent can't get there, then the child who is more impressionable will be persuaded to put pressure on the parent. We really need to hit this, and we hope that these proposals, which are included in the report, will get to the government, that the government will read them, that they will follow good proposals and that they will become law. Mr President, I wanted to highlight these points. There is, of course, much more to say, but I would also like to conclude that the competition agency has a major role in all countries, a significant role, and that it should not be shaken by the hands of the workers there, or even impose an unacceptable fine on companies that deceive consumers, people, and think that they have done so far. We are in favour of all measures in this direction, but on the one hand we are going to ask for them to happen, and on the other hand, these companies will not get away with it in practice. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-30	Congressman János Volner is the next speaker, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-04-01-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me say that I regret the fact that I think that everyone here is in a bit of a state of disrepute at the end of the debate, and unfortunately this is when I have to say my own speech on this, but it may not be useless. First of all, we need to establish that the Competition Authority is currently carrying out its activities with very limited resources, more people, more sector inquiry and closer control. What I would consider appropriate, I would also be able to advise Mr President on the regular presentation by competition agencies in other countries of the revenue that the budget can expect from the competition monitoring procedures that the Office will carry out where appropriate, and it will show that it is significantly worthwhile for the budget to be allocated to the Office. This is a completely clear argument system that does not encourage the Competition Authority to fine entrepreneurs to death, but it does make their profits manifest and tangible, and it is an idea that I would definitely like to make more plastic than the previous reports, or I would suggest to Mr President that they be shown in a similar way. The other concerns making proposals. I have read in the report that Mr President has proposed a number of areas, but it is important, in the same way as the tax office has ordered target studies in one area, that the proportion of the black economy where he is investigating may not be the largest, but let's say that there is the greatest loss of budget money, and when it comes to defining the area in which a sector inquiry is being carried out by the agency, I would certainly, in fact, address the issue of large infrastructure investments in particular. What can we see? The European Union subventions Hungary in seven-year development cycles, it is possible to win thousands of billions of forints, and most of these funds are spent on building colonial infrastructure in Hungary, typically by Western European-owned building materials manufacturers, and are typically implemented by large construction companies owned in Western Europe, in close cooperation with one or two Hungarian companies that grow themselves. One thing can be seen is that this area is regularly the scene of different political debates, and I believe that it would be important for the Office to take this area much closer than it has been before and to coordinate it much more closely. Last year there was a debate on asphalt-mixing plants, where the European Union complained that certain people, certain businesses, are excluded from competition, because they do not have their own asphalt-mixing plants. Here, what I think would be expected is that the Competition Authority itself should take the initiative in such an extremely important area, as let us think - right now the cartel case of the M4 motorway is on the front page - the European Union is launching a infringement procedure in a case where it can be established that the mileage of the motorway is built for HUF 4 billion. What I would suggest, Mr President, and what I would like to draw your attention to, and here I would ask you to propose to the government that we examine these projects in such a way that there is a European comparison of the cost of building a motorway in Hungary, how much it is built in Western Europe or in other countries of the region, and if there is a significant difference, then in this case the Office should automatically launch an investigation in the event of a certain degree of deviation. I think it is important to say this because at a time when we are talking about 4 billion HUF motorway costs, when I saw a public procurement notice just these days, it was quite obvious that competition processes will not prevail. I'm not sure if I quote the number exactly: construction of a noise barrier wall, the construction company has to prove 22 922 meters as a reference according to the tender. So tell me, who is this application for? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] In such a case, it is quite obvious that, let's say, the publisher of the tender didn't hit his stomach and invented this number, they looked at who had that number, they wrote it out on it, and they didn't have much expertise, and they didn't bring him into a public procurement. I'm asking you, what happens in a case like this? Obviously, someone is assigned, someone gets a discount from the applicant, someone wins this tender by virtually excluding competitors from this process by administrative means. So, yes, this is an area that the Office should pay particular attention to only because of the scale of the sums spent, and that particular attention should be given to the proposals that ensure that competition processes take place here. I think it is very important that we compare the data not only on the basis of other regional countries and not just on the basis of Western European prices, although this is an important step, which is why I suggested it, but also that the Office may propose that certain processes be taken into account by the state itself, using the possibilities of the project management toolbox. [[11.40]] At a time when, in other countries with a happier fate, more developed countries, they estimate the cost of the tender at the moment of the tender, unfortunately there is no trace of this culture in Hungary. If we want to spend taxpayers' money effectively, if we want to ensure that competition processes in these very important areas actually work, then the use of this project management toolbox would be absolutely justified. In the case of the M4 motorway, we also see that the state is practically pulling out of all of this, writing out the tender. Companies who participate in all major similar applications: Colas, Swietelsky, Public Machine, A-bridge, Strabag. Then the conclusion of this highly cartel-suspecting case is that OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, is investigating this case and is trying to explore exactly who and what it has committed, how it has limited competition processes. I think it is very important that the Office also proposes to encourage the notifiers. It is very difficult to imagine that when such matters take place in the country, no one would otherwise want to make an announcement. I think that there is not enough incentive that if, where appropriate, he reveals such a cartel transaction, that he treats his personal data and the circumstances of the case with adequate whistleblower protection, then I think it is worth encouraging this notifier financially that if he has information suggesting that in this case the Hungarian State will be harmed by spending these funds in a cartel association, it is obvious that a social goal to explore this is something that should be appreciated even financially towards the whistleblowers. Therefore, it is not enough to protect the applicant, but also to encourage it. I mentioned to Mr President, at the meeting of the Economic Committee, the fate of the tender money, the fate of state grants. What we see here is that the state distributes money on the basis of clear, objective criteria, which is important and that the freedom of competition is violated because, in this way, it is not the companies that are otherwise chosen in open competition that receive these funds, but those who have good relations with the policy makers, who, where appropriate, have good relations with the applicants. We're going to develop conditions where they're being favored. And this situation must be changed. Here much more critical comments are needed, I believe, from the Competition Authority at a time when we can point out these completely obvious abuses. I also consider it important that there are several sectors in Hungary where very harsh, strong, unforeseen state intervention has taken place. Trade in tobacco products is a sector where similar intervention has taken place. What happened here? The state takes away the possibility of trade in tobacco products from a number of retailers who have had decades of practice in this area, and then distributes this market through a concession, redistributes it, and somehow not by those who have previously traded it, had professional experience, but also on the Internet, the political interests of those who have skipped these tenders can be seen on a national map. Again, obviously, the competition process did not prevail here. My colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát talked about food chain monitoring fees. It's a very harsh intervention in the competition, and it's state-owned. I think that even if this is done by means of state resources and the legislation supports this with the help of two thirds of the time, it is also worth pointing out to the Competition Authority that not only is it happening in this area that we are putting Hungarian businesses in a position, but what is happening is that the government benefits close businesses by creating the marginal conditions of taxation in such a way that one taxpayer is subject to the rules, and the other taxpayer, who makes hundreds of billions of HUF turnover with him, is not subject to the rules; in this way very, very harsh interference is taking place in the competition. Similar processes have been observed in the field of gambling, which can be seen as transit nationalisation. What also happened there is that there is an honorable social goal in which legislation acts, so that people don't throw their money into a one-armed robber, they take away the opportunity from many small businesses to obtain gambling revenues, and then distribute it to government friends shortly thereafter. We all know the names of these people, such as Andy Vajna, one of the two who currently have such opportunities. Similarly, in the energy field, there has been a very harsh intervention in the sector. Consider, when the government constantly changes energy regulation, it does not offer companies a predictable future, and one of the companies - district heating companies - is subject to subsidies of 50-60 billion forints of taxpayers' money on the basis of their losses in the reduction of debts; once again, we are paying the cost of reducing the rent from taxpayers' money in this way. The other company, on the other hand, is taxed to death, where appropriate, forced to withdraw the underlying ownership or the underlying owner from this company and sell the business interest. These are very harsh interventions in competition, which I believe the Competition Authority must draw attention to even if this has been supported by legislation. The comments that Mr President made in the report, for example, to protect minors, were conceived in a similar situation. The legislation also provided for the existence of these rules, and the President proposed that this be changed. Along similar logic in other sectors, the same changes may be carried out and proposed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-32	Mr László György Lukács is the next speaker, Jobbik.
u2015-04-01-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In December 2014, an elderly woman was notified of a free retail health check. Since he doesn't like to wait in line with his home doctor, and he doesn't have the money to visit private institutions, he was happy to attend the event. Being retired, his invitation was requested at the time of entry, and some sort of chest sensor was used to map his vascular system. His data was forwarded to a central lab, and until the evaluation was completed, he could listen to a very interesting lecture about the horrors of the Hungarian health system, the deadly diseases of the elderly, the drug mafia and many other terrestrial horrors. A resonant miracle mattress has also been introduced, which cures cardiovascular diseases, but unfortunately cannot be purchased. After the performance, all participants were called to the examination room separately, and the devastating news was that they were suffering from a deadly disease, and this can only be solved with the help of the mattress, which they should not sell, but in the spirit of universal humanitarianism they do, for a pot of 230,000 forints. I repeat: 230,000 forints. Our subject didn't fall for the scam. On the one hand, because you've heard of such frauds, on the other hand, because the risk of strokes as low blood pressure didn't seem believable. Of course, it was strange that his records, which he asked for further consultation with his family doctor, were not given. Our Renitent subject was then carefully removed from the scene with personal escorts, from the other participants. The December case is not unique. At product shows disguised as health care, thousands of elderly people are damaged every day. Companies specialized in harming customers already reach their potential customers by telephone instead of postal invitations, instead of by inviting them to travel to health, health check and screening. The latter practice is unethical for several reasons. Invitations generally do not show that it is a product presentation, lectures or examinations are carried out mostly by persons without a medical degree. In each second case, the healing or preventive properties of the products are misleadingly communicated. According to the National Consumer Protection Authority, it is also not uncommon to establish serious bliss at product presentations disguised as health examinations, thus forcing participants to buy. [[11.50]] Of course, the above-mentioned findings are more consumer-friendly, but they also have an economic distortion of competition which is the task of the GVH. It is our hope that, if it is not possible to prevent the activities of these companies from the consumer side many times, the GVH would make the companies so to speak. But continuing to think: the target audience for the display is primarily the retirement age group. Why they are, there are several reasons, for example, that they are available on weekdays at the time of the presentations, because technical progress is difficult to keep up, they can easily be misled about the medicinal effect of the products, and they are not sufficiently aware of their purchasing rights. Not to mention that they are one of the most affected social groups in the field of health, since as age progresses, a growing number of diseases occur, most of which cannot be cured. The trust in the Hungarian health system, or rather the lack of it, is also playing them into the hands of fraudsters. For companies organising product presentations, misleading commercial practices did not create any particular difficulties for consumers, as if they were out-of-business sales, they did not have to report and remained hidden from the Consumer Protection Authority. The problem has already been described by the GVH in this report, but it has been able to do little about it and about the regulation of companies. It is worth recalling how the regulation was developed in this regard. As of 1 January 2014, the Government Decree on the conditions for carrying out commercial activities was amended, meaning that the place and date of any such travel or event had to be notified to the competent notary, which was held for the purpose of marketing the products. The notification had to be made to the notary no later than 15 days before, and the notary immediately decided or forwarded to the consumer inspectorate with territorial competence, but not later than 3 days. However, there are increasing complaints that fraudsters and shoppers are organizing display shows for housing, knowing that the authorities will not be able to hear about the event in any other way, so that they can escape control. The Government Decree on detailed rules for contracts concluded between consumers and businesses, which entered into force on 13 June 2014, allows the customer to withdraw from the purchase without justification within 14 days of the receipt of the product if the product presentation is not carried out at the company's premises and the company is obliged to repay the full purchase price. In order to play this role, the enforcement of the 14-day right of withdrawal by consumers is unlawfully denied on the grounds of different objections, most notably the initiation of a credit claim process. It is also not uncommon that during the display of goods, the product and its characteristics are only communicated to the interested parties present, the products presented can only be ordered via the Internet or telephone. In such cases, the consumer is not entitled to the right of withdrawal without justification, but the undertakings typically do not draw the attention of the lecturers. The audit experience - and this includes, although not in the area of consumer protection, but in any case, the GVH must learn from it - and, on the basis of complaints, it can be concluded that many companies do not follow the law after recent changes in legislation. The National Consumer Protection Authority's territorial supervisors only carried out official controls at 99 product presentations in recent years, first visited 44 presentations, of which 32 found irregularities, a 73 percent objection rate. Of the 55 inspections conducted during the second phase of the investigations, 36 cases, i.e. 65 percent of cases, were found to be infringement. The regional supervisors received 780 consumer submissions, most complained that they were unable to withdraw from the purchased product, 91 cases of withdrawal rights were not or were not properly informed to consumers. Unfortunately, the return of the purchase price to victims is still rather difficult, since enforcement of the payment is only possible by court or conciliation body. According to a former pro-government statement, the Ministry of National Development is already working on tightening the relevant laws, but we have not yet met this before the plenary in front of this House. State Secretary Bence Rétvári announced in February this year that KDNP will launch a consultation on the often misleading product presentations of pensioners. They have also contacted NGOs and public organisations and are expected to put a proposal on the table, including legislative amendments. In this connection, I would like to ask the President, first of all, whether there has been a request from KDNP, whether the GVH has been consulted on these matters, since this has not only a consumer protection dimension, but also an aspect which distorts economic competition. To sum up what I wanted to say: it is welcome that the GVH knows this problem and appears in its report. It is true that again we can talk about the 2013 report, and since then legislative changes have been made, to which commercial practice has already adapted so much that in its technique and methodology these companies have made continuous progress, practically searching for the loopholes. So I think that the GVH will also have to pay attention to how these consumer protection rules, which otherwise affect competition, how they change, how these companies adapt to them and how they try to circumvent the rules. I would also ask the President to pay particular attention to such product presentations, and I would ask the GVH to pay attention to companies operating in business, collaborating with each other. Add all human and available legal instruments, i.e. all material, personnel and legal conditions available to the GVH. In addition to harming consumers, these activities could lead to distortions of competition in favour of companies circumventing the legislation, and the environment will be at the expense of fair-functioning health aids, other substances, medicines, pharmaceuticals and commercial companies that manufacture and market medical devices. It is true that my proposals are for the future, but I would like to emphasise once again that I would like you to take an increased look at these companies, because they undermine the results of fair health companies, their effectiveness and, overall, undermine public confidence in products and their confidence in healthcare providers in health products and health services. I would ask the President, in the report of the coming years, also in the light of the investigations, to present the activities of the GVH, the GVH. I will be curious to see how what has now been said in the years 2014-15 will appear hopefully in two years' time, or even earlier, in the GVH report in 2015. So I ask the President, once again, to pay particular attention to this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-01-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask you if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. It is now possible to conclude with the authors of the report or the proposal for a decision. I ask Mr Miklós Juhász if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Miklós Juhász: Thank you very much. In a few words. Not sure about all of them, but if possible, yes.]] Come on, come on. Dear Parliament, The President of the Economic Competition Office therefore responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2015-04-01-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments and questions. I'm gonna try to group these by topic and run through them, answer a few or maybe most of them. Consumer protection was related to a lot of comments, questions, comments. I myself am very pleased that this is being handled with such weight by the Honourable Parliament. Basically, consumer protection, I would add, is not a competitive task, but I am very pleased that this task is in our portfolio. While we do not impose large fines on consumer protection, this is the area that goes directly into everyone's pockets. It means they're cartelling on a highway building, and it's bad for the citizen, we know, but we don't feel it that directly in our pockets. A person who is cheated at a product show, if any, immediately feels the damage of a few thousand, one hundred thousand or any size, is an immediate problem for him. That is why I am pleased with these suggestions myself. [[12.00]] There have now been quite a number of comments on product presentations. We've had five of these cases recently. Almost all of them are closed. We imposed a fine. I believe that, on the part of the Competition Authority, we have been paying attention to these issues, and we will continue to pay attention to them, in the context of this biobed, the resonance bed that the Member has mentioned. I would like to thank Mr State Secretary very much for his comments and his suggestion on the forum system. Today, the closure of a competition office case can also last for almost years because, in the end, there are four forums for redress. If we take into account the possibility of a regular judicial review and then the extraordinary remedy for the Curia, and finally the Constitutional Court, the cases are now endless. I am very much in favour of this idea myself, and I agree with that. The question arose, on the one hand, what happens if we do, because there is a signal coming from either the government or the media or any other forum, then the problem is that we are acting because we are the wheel of the government, if we do not act, the problem is that we do not act. So this is where it was said, on behalf of Congressman Schiffer, that we acted as a staff. I would like to note that the Competition Authority's decision was first judged by the court and rejected the bank's earnings. I would only like to record this so that our decisions are subject to judicial review, not as a sort of, let me say, club. It is difficult to say, after all, that we are biased in whatever form we are, and I believe that, if undertakings under the procedure are entitled to the presumption of innocence, the Competition Authority is also entitled to the assumption that it is acting fairly, since, as has just been said, several judicial forums are reviewing our decision. Suggestions were made, comments were made on the merger control and on the general and specific points relating to a certain merger. The public version of all our decisions is available on our website. I think there are few such authorities. We do not need to sue these decisions, there was a Member here who quoted them, and it is possible to see if someone disagrees with them, it is possible to debate them. These decisions shall be open to the public. So if someone disagrees with that, then they can express their opinion, but I think that this is the area where I think one of our activities appears in the most obvious way. I would add that there is a European Union Member State where there is absolutely no merger control. And I would add that most European Member States have exceptions, such as the security of the financial system in the UK, the right of veto by the Minister of Economy in Germany, so most European states have a kind of exception. I'm not saying we're happy about this. I'm just saying that this could still be a functioning system, and I think that, however, we are always obliged to state the points of competition, you have to acknowledge that there are times when this is accepted, sometimes it is not. We're not happy about it, but we're not about government, we're about law enforcement in the first place. About the fine. On the one hand, I agree that it would be best if we didn't have to pay a penny fine, that would be best. But it's a theoretical thing, that's not gonna happen in life. So that would be an ideal goal. There was a speaker who challenged the level of the fine as to why that was all. I believe that we are trying to do as our own fine statement, the fine notice in antitrust matters, defines this. I would like to emphasise once again that this fine is predictable, although it is obviously not a penny-perceived, but transparent, public, and if a person commits an infringement, he will be able to use more or less estimates of why the fine is as large as what the office has imposed. There was also a comment on suppliers, a link between supermarket chains and suppliers. It is quite obvious that this kind of market asymmetry really stands up. This is not a classic competition issue, but the Competition Authority is acting, and I think it is right in some cases, because the legislator has authorized us to do so under the law. This is also becoming an example in Europe of whether companies are defined as having significant market power either in relation to such a percentage of the market or in relation to a turnover figure, although that is not the case in terms of competition. I would like to add, however, and this has also been the case with the Auchan case, since August 2012 the Competition Authority has not been able to act on agricultural products, although I believe that this is precisely the area that is the most exciting and the most important, since it is small farmers and entrepreneurs who are in the really vulnerable situation. In the relationship between a company that manufactures computer devices or entertainment electronics and a large chain of stores, this kind of vulnerability is less or less vulnerable. So I would just like to clarify the legal framework here: we have no way of dealing with agricultural products. It is Nébih, which is now within the framework of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Agriculture, which is primarily entitled to intervene in this area. There was a suggestion that we should start cartels in certain areas. Now the M4 has been mentioned several times. I'd love to. I have two things to say. On the one hand, very popularly speaking, shooting a cannon at a sparrow will be quite difficult. Now, if someone thought about it, after someone was carteling, and the Competition Authority, God forbid, would they go out and hit it, what would they find there after all the media is about it? I think that this does not help our work in this sense, and that is why we cannot provide much information on such matters, since this would jeopardise the effectiveness of the procedure. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that we are launching any case that has become the Public Machine, Strabag, Colas, anyone, if we get a signal and data that allows us to get a warrant for the ambush. I told the committee during the hearing that in the autumn of last year, three cases were rejected by the court in our request for an ambush. In such cases, there's not much hope of a successful procedure unless we can get a warrant from the court for an ambush on the basis of well-founded evidence. Comments were also made on State aid. Obviously, they always affect competition in the market. However, this competence does not exist in the case of the Competition Authority. The European Commission has such competence, the Czech competition authority also has such powers, we do not. In cases involving State aid, the Competition Authority cannot act. It has also been said in relation to fines that its scale is fluctuating and that it is a question of the impact of fines. The type of impact assessment that I thanked you for earlier, that there was a representative who mentioned that 58 billion is the social benefit that appeared in relation to the activities of the GVH in the period 2008-2012, which also includes the deterrent effect of fines. The impact assessment for the period 2009-2014 has been carried out and partly has already been carried out. This is done on the basis of economic methods, OECD and other leading competition authorities, the UK competition authority, also applied by the Dutch competition authority. With regard to medicinal products, I believe that the Competition Authority is active. However, we also need to see what the options are that we have at our disposal. We have been fined, and many here have rightly objected to the fact that the amount of the fine is low - we can impose a fine of up to 10 percent of the previous year's turnover. [[12.10]] Indeed, these companies operate in a way that develops into a specific activity. The moment we find them, they'll go to another company, they'll start a new company, and it'll obviously have a minimum turnover of the previous year, it'll be zero. This is not really an effective action. But I would like to add that, for example, in the case of consumer groups, I appreciate that the action of the authorities is a little more focused, because the police are now investigating the complaints in this regard, and as far as I know, there are criminal proceedings or proceedings in progress. However, there may also be a question of personal responsibility in such cases, but I believe that such a legislative proposal could only be made after a slightly more prudent and prudent impact assessment or after examining the consequences. I don't know what to say about the Megyeri Bridge. Right now, I can't give you a specific answer about Albanian bakers. I would still like to... - yes, it has been said here, which is perhaps important: since July 2014, the Competition Authority has had the opportunity to conduct a market analysis. We ourselves believe that this can be an important tool that explores, learns and experiences certain markets, market sectors. In addition to the sector inquiry, this is another or another, so to speak, perhaps a more lovable opportunity in our hands. It's a relatively new institution. We have used it, we have already launched a market analysis, and I believe that we will be able to use it more effectively in the future. The question arose as to the establishment of the construction authority. I don't really have anything to say about that right now. There is a kind of authority that is entitled to make a statement on the issue of circular debt, or at least we have made comments on this at some point in the last year, if not in 2013. I believe that this can be useful, because if the contractor gets his prize bypassing a court procedure, I think that it would certainly be welcome. Obviously, because of the shortness of time and the length of time, I was not able to respond exhaustively to everything, but briefly I wanted to say this much, and I thank you, Mr President, for the floor, I have finished. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-01-36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will ask Mr Dénes Galambos, Member of the Economic Committee, if he wishes to respond and respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-04-01-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In response to questions raised in the debate, the President of the Economic Competition Office stated that I believe that most of the issues that our opposition fellow Members have asked have been covered. My opinion would be focused on, and I would like to continue with the idea that the President of the Competition Authority expressed in his last thoughts and that I would like to respond to the question raised by my fellow Member, Mr János Volner. I believe that the Hungarian Competition Authority should not function as a super authority in Hungary. The function of the legislation that is taxed and exercised by the GVH, I would not think that I would extend the scope of each area, i.e. the State Audit Office, not to give to God, Kehi, and then to the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee, not to give to God, to the police, to the Public Prosecutor's Office. So the areas that my fellow Member has raised, I believe, are sufficiently available within the existing regulatory and legislative framework. I still have to add, and given the EU's developments over the past period, we can see that OLAF is also the organisation that examines the procurements for which internal audits have already been completed, since it looks at the beginnings. I have the same opinion about the establishment of a construction superpower. I don't see the point or the validity of this right now. The organisational framework that operates in this genre, and I should also point out here that government agencies are subject to State Reform II. The strengthening of this approach in the framework of the European Parliament and the Council is precisely designed to ensure that official surveillance measures that I rightly expect are implemented, because it is obvious that this should be addressed in the system of public administration. Dr. László Lukács's points of view are entirely in agreement with my fellow Member, and I think, as the President pointed out, that one of the important elements of consumer protection and that monitoring of consumer groups is an important task for the Economic Competition Office. After all, what my fellow Member has mentioned is one of the terrible things that are happening in this genre, which can only be worse, and I also believe that our greatest value in our lives is our health, and there is no tolerance in this area, so we must show zero tolerance. In this, consumer protection, which is another important authority that deals with this, has its tasks. But please, these tasks are delegated somewhere within the system, they just have to be lived and practiced. To the other questions, I think the President has given me the right answer. I thank you for this opportunity, and I propose that the two years report be adopted on the part of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-01-38	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending Act I of 2004 on sport will follow until closure. The submission is T/4038. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The short, but more important, bill before you proposes to amend Act I of 2004 on Sport. The purpose of the bill is twofold. On the one hand, as a replacement provision, the contribution of the national sports associations to the tasks related to the organisation of high-level sports world events is among the fundamental tasks of the national sports associations. On the other hand, in order to improve sports life in the capital and strengthen the community-forming function of sport, it complements the range of properties assigned to the asset management of key sports associations in Budapest. The current provisions of the Sports Act state that the government provides the necessary guarantee by international sports organisations for the organisation of major international sports events and sports diplomacy events in Hungary. However, among the basic tasks of the professional associations operating exclusively in certain sports sectors and endowed with special powers by the Sports Act, there is no involvement in the tasks related to the organisation of high-level sports world events, which are seen as a fundamental shortage in the preparation of the 2017 World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial Swimming and Open Water Championships. With the adoption of the bill and the definition of the new task of fraternity as a public task, the conditions of organisation of Hungarian organized sports events will be ensured. The bill also, continuing the process of rationalising the operation of state sports assets in 2013, assigns the sports facilities currently used by BHSE to the asset management of the Budapest Honvéd Sports Association with a high tradition. [[12.20]] The owner of the real estate remains the Hungarian State, but at the same time the sports association using them is responsible for the maintenance and development of the facilities. The right of trustee gives BHSE more opportunities in the field of sport-specific development of real estate than in the previous legal relationship. At the same time, another prominent sports association in Budapest, the Budapest Vasutas Sport Club, i.e. the property management district of BVSC, is temporarily removed from the property category assigned to the management of assets, also in view of their railway function. Following the closure of the land formations to be carried out in the areas concerned, the areas actually used by BVSC as separate property may be returned to the management of the property of BVSC. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, On this basis, I would ask you to support the bill with your vote in order to improve Hungary's international sports reputation and improve Hungarian sports life. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be followed by the speeches of the Members, the first among which will be the speeches of the lead speaker; first, MEP Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I believe that we have had a rare experience during the discussion of the amending proposal, since we have not often been able to see such a short amendment. These are all four paragraphs, and sitting in the courtroom, I saw Mr. Secretary of State patiently waiting for hours for the trial of these four paragraphs to take place. We're in the lead speaker's round now. I think that anyone who uses the 15 minutes available for the four paragraphs is probably capable of committing other crimes. [[Defiance.]] I wouldn't take that chance. The amending proposal addresses two issues. One would carry out new tasks for sports associations, as Mr Secretary of State said, in relation to various major sporting events. It can also be understood that this is a kind of task for the trade unions, and it can also be understood that this is an opportunity or they are granted new rights. At the same time, I was wondering whether these trade unions would have the human resources to do so, whether they would have the necessary financial resources. Neither the presentation nor the oral amendment of the Secretary of State mentioned this. It also concerns me whether this is the result of a pressure from above, or whether some sort of consultation has taken place with them, and if so, they will be happy to face the task, or it will be part of a more complicated or difficult process. If the Secretary of State is willing to do so, I would like to hear his opinion on this matter. The other one's about real estate. Two sports associations have been mentioned by the Secretary of State, but if I have looked at the annex correctly, then we are talking about almost all the major sports associations in Budapest: FTC, UTE, MTK, Vasas, Honvéd and BVSC. Each modification proposal relating to real estate contains local map numbers. I would have appreciated the help if we had gotten some kind of crime scene sketch or something to do with it, because based on the location numbers, identifying these properties is an investigative task, it's not easy to look into. There is confidence that we are dealing with correct transactions here, but I think we can both see that any kind of action on sports property is surrounded by an unwanted event. That's why I would have appreciated it if we could have gotten this kind of help. In this context, it was suggested that sports associations were part of this process, in the case of BHSE, that they specifically asked for it, but we do not know what the rest of them are about, whether they know and agree with it. And here it is even more pronounced, especially in the case of the Honvéd Sports Association, that he would undertake to operate these sports facilities in a different way than before. As I recall, previously the Ministry of Defence was financially involved in the operation of these institutions or sports facilities, and if I'm right about what you said, this may not be the case in the future. I know about this sports club in the capital, Vasas. I know that this is not a small problem for them, and they are fighting a continuous struggle, with some results, so that the state can contribute to this in some way, so that the operation of sports facilities owned by the state, but provided for in asset management, can be effective. The headquarters of the Honvéd are in my constituency as well as the Vasas, so I would be interested to know that in the case of the Honvéd, the Honvéd will have to start the same fight again, or in the case of the Honvéd and Vasas, this will be provided with a sufficient financial background. I trust I will receive satisfactory answers to these questions. Until then, I'm just hopeful. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-42	Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2015-04-01-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hope I won't be able to commit other crimes, but I might take 15 minutes. Indeed, there are only four amendments, and there are only two substantive amendments, but there are many things that are affected by this issue. Believing Dezső mentioned that Annex 1 is changing. Fradi and the others have been included in Annex 1, if I remember correctly, in early 2014. Now the BHSE will be added here until the BVSC is out of this circle. But I'm gonna have a few questions later, and I'm gonna have an objection to filing, and not so much about real estate. According to the bill before us, individual professional associations will be indispensable in the preparation and conduct of international sports events won in Hungary in the international competition for the sport concerned, following the adoption of the proposal. The performance of public tasks related to international sporting events is expected to be more effective and more professional by the involvement of the competent association as a preparatory officer in the operating work. Yesterday, we discussed a complete parliamentary amendment - I'm sorry, LMP didn't support - and almost full parliamentary support for the 2017 World Water Championship. We are treating this world as a national matter, and the opposition is also treating this world as a national matter, which, I feel, is exemplary given the past years. In addition to the two co-chairs, the organizing committee was defined in the form of a delegation of members to the organising committee, who are affected by this World Championship, which is in our opinion very right, and we were pleased to note that our proposal was accepted by the Fidesz-KDNP, that every opposition party with groups could delegate a specialist - not a politician, but a professional - to the organising committee. It's a full cooperation. Article 1 This is a very good initiative. Another important part of the bill aims to make better use of partly state-owned sports property. Here I will have questions for detailed justification and general justification. The first problem was that which had already been raised in the discussion on the water world - and at the five-party meeting we asked for it and received it - that there was also an annex, in which there were geography numbers, and which area we were talking about, but there was no detailed description of it. For example, we did not know which areas were affected by Balatonfüred, for what purpose, what plans were planned for these areas. And when we signaled this to the Commissioner of the Government, we received a detailed document stating that this area would be subject to such development by the organising committee and the government, and that is the purpose of this. [[12.30]] I would like to ask you to submit such laws, because we have an annex here, and there are local figures in it, and who it concerns, so that it concerns the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club, or it concerns the Budapest Honvéd Sports Association, so we would like to write down what areas we are talking about on the one hand, and on the other hand, because it has a share of state ownership, it would also be good to know how much of the property the management of which we are handing over right now. We wouldn't be able to do that, anyway, even if we were to start excavating these areas based on the location numbers. So it would be nice to know how much ownership we're talking about. And it would be nice to put behind it what kind of sports goal leads to the transfer of this area, what kind of sports professional aspect we give it. So what is the expectation when the trust rights are transferred, what is the government or the State's expectation of the association, what is to be achieved in this area and what is to be achieved on what basis. This would also be important, because, as I said, in Annex 1, let us take Ferencváros as an example, in the areas of Ferencváros, we know why it was given asset management. In order for a modern stadium to flourish, and then in front of houses full of modern stadiums, they will host matches with spectators. If it had been written down when we handed over, let's say, the trust rights, we could now, from experience, see what happened. It is realized that there really is a modern stadium there in the area. However, it is less possible to have viewers here, as the average number of viewers may not reach 3,000 in this stadium. But if you consider the entire NB I to not just talk about Fradi, then it's very certain that the average spectator number is less than 3,000. Of course, there are outstanding events. The answer to this is that we are now watching the Hungary-Greece match, it was almost full house. Indeed, since the existence of the Ferencváros Stadium on Üllői út, it was the first match where there was almost a full house. Not since. Then we should look at the reason for this from a sports professional point of view. You gave me an investment, you gave me a modern stadium, so why don't the fans go out? And if we look at this here, then I think we should take the conclusion that something is wrong. It should be examined whether there are provisions in the Sports Act that might need to be changed, whether there are provisions in which we should focus on attracting as many fans as possible to sports facilities where these sporting events could actually be viewed under almost European conditions. Unfortunately, something has gone wrong in Hungary today. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention here, and I know it does not belong closely to the subject, but let us examine why fans do not go to such a modern stadium. What's the reason they don't go out? And if we can find that reason, I can give you a reason or two, and that might be in the sports law, then let's change it. Sit down with the Hungarian Football Association, sit down with the sports organizations involved, sit down with the fans and find a solution. It's not good for anyone. It is not good for the player, it is not good for the Hungarian football, it is not good for the stadium operator, because there is a loss of revenue. This is a bad situation for everyone. Then let's try to change that. That is why it is essential that we also define sports goals. Then what I have to ask. I know that a general justification must always focus on noble goals and define them. It is said that Hungary's government supports high-level sports events in Hungary, this is true, as well as the implementation of the sports development strategies of successful sports associations in Budapest with a long tradition. Now, here's a little thorn in me. If you describe it that way, then what about BSE? What about the sports club that was over a hundred years old? The one whose biggest problem maybe was that his real estate was in a very frequent location? I am talking about the City Major, where the capital said that it could not ensure the operation of BSE for about HUF 100 million per year that could have worked on BSE. Then suddenly, quickly, the MTK led by Tamás Deutsch came forward, and they melted the two into each other. With a debt of HUF 300 million at the time, MTK took over BSE with HUF 300 million. Why was that good back then? And the capital couldn't support it with 100 million, but if we had seen the Ferencváros field, then all sorts of capital-owned companies from the Metropolitan Networking Works would have been there, and if we had added these money together, then BSE would have been able to continue to operate. So I'm feeling a little bit repulsive about this justification. There's just one more thing, and then maybe I'm not really gonna take the 15 minutes, and maybe I'm not gonna commit any other crimes - I hope that's the case. This is that in the bill it is written that the bill is the Budapest Railway Sport Club immovable property designated for the management of assets, such and such as immovable property [[hereinafter referred to jointly as "the real estate']] It also proposes to delete it, given that they currently have a basic railway function. Now, my problem here is that since 2014, Annex 1 has included this area, as operated by the BVSC Railway Sports Club, which is his trustee, and you have only just noticed that these trains may be running? Did you just notice that you might be classified as a sports area here? 'Cause if he's a railway operator, I suppose, I assume, 'cause I don't know what areas we're talking about, 'cause he might have appeared when we told him, say, there's fast trains going through there, and then he's not so good for sports, or maybe they're running with them. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this bill, so we will vote for it, and we agree that we will try to support sport as widely as possible and with greater cooperation as possible. After all, there are a lot of positive effects, whether international competitions or sports facilities are developing, and if sports associations have an adequate economic background and we are able to broaden supply training, we will therefore support this bill. However, I would like to ask that, if such legislative proposals are to be submitted in the future with such annexes, they should provide more detailed information on the area in which they are concerned, the ownership ratio and the sports professional purposes for which these rights are to be transferred to asset management. So that's all I wanted to say, and I'm telling you, we're gonna support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent Member in the Chamber, no two-minute speeches have been made, and further speeches are now taking place. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, and then two minutes. I see you've already applied, Congressman, after that. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to reject the comment made by my fellow believer. We can talk about shorter things. I am always glad that President Hiller presides because he wears them with special patience. Accordingly, I do not take advantage of the opportunity, but I reserve the opportunity to do so another time. We need to talk about three separate parts of the legislation. In the first part, the Sports Act partially complements the tasks of sports associations in carrying out state tasks related to the organisation of major international sports events in Hungary. This is certainly due to the organisation of the 2017 water world, where we will continue to maintain it, in line with yesterday's voting behaviour, that there may still be a number of concerns about this, since we practically gave the capital an unlimited mandate with a blank check yesterday, which is still a cause for concern. It seems perfectly logical to us that the participation of the professional association is justified in organising such events, and in addition to the professional association, it would have been very justified if environmental, construction, spatial planning and heritage protection bodies could also participate in the process and would not give virtually another major authority to the professional associations. It would be comforting if this issue were resolved, since, although these sporting events are very important, as we have heard in the introduction, it would also be good to take into account these other cultural and social aspects. [[12.40]] If we are talking about the professional associations and the contribution is very large, we will have a plant development of HUF 20-25 billion, then we would very much like to see one more thing in this legislation, on which we might try to make an amendment. It means that the loopholes in the publicity of trade union farming would be a good thing if we closed it. If, with this mandate, we are to create the possibility of taking part in the implementation of these programmes with a virtually public commitment, then the management of these programmes must be seen as being fully transparent as far as possible. I draw attention to this because at the end of last year, the 2011 CXII. In connection with the amendment of the law, we made a reduction in the sports law, which said that it was related to the management of the professional associations - sorry, I misjudged the place of law, because I said the number of the information law. So we put in the Sports Act a restriction that narrowed the access to data in non-State and non-governmental organisations as regards the requests for access to public data under the aforementioned law on the right of information self-determination in connection with the management of professional associations in the public interest or in the public interest. This happened at the end of last year. If we give them the authority now to carry out such public tasks and involve them, it would be very good if they could operate as transparently as possible. At the end of last year... Obviously, as opposition politicians, I apologize for the fact that we may have preconceptions, but obviously - and then the court will say, sooner or later, in the application of the law, what that means - this is just a topic about finding out, for example, at the Puskás Academy, what kind of corporate tax was it, so who was more important to secure their corporate tax and not to come to the central budget. That's why it's limited. Obviously, we understand that it is a political goal not to find out, but it would be good if, in the case of professional associations, at least some kind of exploration could be carried out in the case of such a public task. The second element of the proposal allows property that is partly owned by the Hungarian State to be designated as a trustee in respect of the ownership of the Hungarian State. In our party's view, this is okay, and we can agree with that; this objective is clearly eligible, a logical, effective solution. Finally, the proposal amends the Annex to the Sports Act which designates sports associations as trustees of certain state-owned sports property. Obviously, I don't have to summon that. It's all there in the presentation. We have only one point of principle that we would like to ask the legislator to consider. In our opinion, the Parliament, as the main representative of the people, may not be the best body to decide on a territory at the level of land map numbers. So this is something that should not be placed here as a location number, and this is not the right level of decision making to make individual decisions with such micromanagement. This should therefore be seen in legislation as to whether there is no more effective or better solution than to deal with legislation in such detail. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-01-46	Thank you very much. We're about to make a two-minute comment. Congressman György Szilágyi has applied for two minutes.
u2015-04-01-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Yes, Sallai R. Benedict raised an important question. Indeed, we did; even when the law was passed, we signaled. Consider that we can host an international football-related event, and the problem is that either the sports professional association or, let's say, associations have different sources of income. These include public funds, state aid resources, but there are other rights, television broadcasting rights, anything else you can say is a business problem. Here we have always raised the possibility that when we ask a question, it will always be a business secret, and we will never have to account for it. It's one of those parts that you should try to sort out. Here comes the fact that, for example, it is not possible to know exactly what kind of financial situation the BHSE, let's say, has right now. The explanatory memorandum states that, in principle, the State is handing over these real estates because, in view of the lack of resources in connection with the operation of both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Human Resources, it is appropriate to transfer the property's trust rights to BHSE by means of statutory designation, which is also initiated by BHSE, to the extent that the properties are currently operated by BHSE. If we hand over the transfer to the Budapest Honvéd Sports Association, and the reason is that there is a lack of funds in the trustees, and these two trustees are currently the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Human Resources, this is, in my opinion, a hard-to-believe argument. I can only hope, by the way, that the financial situation of the new trustee will be more favourable than that of the current trustees, so I hope that BHSE is in a much better position than, say, the two ministries mentioned, but this is difficult to believe. So the reason I'm saying this is to put such justifications in, is that I find this a little strange. That is why it would be good if what Sallai R. Benedek outlined could be fixed later. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-48	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will therefore ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says yes. You have the floor, please.
u2015-04-01-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the comments, comments, proposals and statements of support, as well as for the critical comments. I would like to try to respond briefly to the points that have been raised here. Member Dezső, who is a believer, asked whether there was consultation with both the sports associations and the associations, the six major metropolitan clubs and as a new task, this type of change is a public task for the sports professional associations because of the amendment of the law. I would like to reassure you all that, of course, it was a negotiation, and I must even say that the Swimming Federation itself has requested this amendment of the law from Parliament and from the government. So there was no pressure from above on the part of the government, there wasn't, there won't be, I hope, ever. I think our job is to strengthen the world of Hungarian sport. The current government's task is to ensure Hungarian sport and the possibility of sport, to ensure conditions for sport, obviously also for sport and mass sports, in order to increase the supply base. So that's what we try to do with all our decisions and actions. If the sports associations have human resources, if this amendment is in place, I have to say that there is a sports professional association who does, and obviously there is someone who hasn't. Those who have already organised a serious world competition in Hungary are increasingly seeing its potential, increasingly focusing on human resources, and paying attention to their own apparatus. We are also trying to help you with this, since regular contacts with the federal leaders, the secretaries-general and the presidents of the 16 priority sports disciplines are regular. I personally initiated a joint task force, and it has now been operational for nearly three years, two and a half years, which consists of the leaders of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the sports associations, so consultations are regular to support the 16 priority sports. So what they are asking for, we try to support and stand behind well-founded requests together with the Hungarian Olympic Committee. So there's a continuous, living, organic connection. Another issue is that, for the sake of the speeches here, and obviously I have been thinking about this for a long time, we will create a framework and form of this, a kind of sports wheel table, where, where appropriate, the emergence and raising of such territorial issues and other professional questions will give us the opportunity to think together about Hungarian sports. I believe that Hungarian sport is a common national language. We Hungarians are successful in sports. It is important that we at least have this agreement in the field of sport, at least between the parliamentary parties. In the case of the six major metropolitan clubs, I would also like to confirm once again that the associations have asked that they wish to be specifically responsible for farming and obtaining the right of trustee. Every time we talk about trust rights, it's a little mysterious for a lot of people. Obviously, the owner has different options, so he's the owner himself. Here the state remains the owner. They're obviously using the area, possessing the area, and possessing the owner. The trustee only exercises decisively the first two rights, so he uses and owns the property. Of course, the right to dispose is in the hands of the Hungarian state, in the hands of the current Hungarian state, so only the right of trustee is transferred to the leaders of the six major metropolitan clubs. [[12.50]] There have been very important questions, and of course I am also working - and we have a common goal in this regard - to try to solve the financial situation of Budapest's Hungarians, as well as Vasase's, Fradi's, MTK's, BVSC and Újpest too, because without the six large metropolitan clubs, without the athletes who train there and exercise there, Hungarian sports would practically be lost; because these six large patina clubs have put down a lot of things in the last hundred years on the altar of Hungarian sports, there are very, very many Olympic medals that athletes, excellent workshops have developed, but we all see that their infrastructure is quite poor. Now, obviously, this beautiful stadium was built at Ferencváros, but we can see that the Budapest Honvéd has particularly big problems. Without any bias, since when I received the request for this task, I was previously the social president of the Budapest Hungarian Sports Association, and I gave up this task; of course, we try to help all clubs, unbiasedly, because we serve the cause of Hungarian sports as a whole, but I know that there are very, very unworthy conditions in Budapest's Hungary, in terms of changing rooms, gymnasiums, in terms of the gymnasium, the swimming pool is still open-area, old-built, so it is a miracle that such athletes' achievements are created in such, how should I say, vomitated facilities. So, indeed, both children and parents, who take children down there to play sports, want to see them become cultured lockers, cultured water blocks, showers where their children can be left safe and their valuables. I think it's gotta be a common goal. We sought to settle the debt of the six major metropolitan clubs, we did all of them in the first step, and then we saw that, of course, if they had to operate property management, this would be a heavy burden for them. Unfortunately, we are not in Hungary today, as we say, I do not know, in Real Madrid, where there is ticket revenues, there is a sponsorship that can operate in practically profitable mode and also implement various improvements. State aid is needed here. There are different forms of this, and it will also be possible to have a separate debate on how this can be done, whether it can be from budgetary sources, but then it is critical to the government why it gives so much money, say, from state resources to sport, it is possible to involve various entrepreneurial funds, sponsorship, municipal funds, and, of course, to invent constructions such as the Tao system, which is subject to many, many attacks, I can see that, I know, but it must be acknowledged that because of this, there have been some kind of investment in sports and sports facilities in nearly a thousand settlements. Then what will be your future will be a separate question, since Hungary has a permit from the European Union until the end of June 2017, but this will be a separate situation when we have to settle this. Last year, we gave the six major metropolitan clubs 300-300 million forints, except for BVSC, who receives 150 million forints as quasi state aid so that they could pay and operate their bills at all. Compared to this, even when an extraordinary situation arises, we strive to help certain clubs, both Vasas and Honvéd, and Ferencváros to exist and function, and we have a great goal: this is the development, because we cannot bypass it. Without the six major metro clubs, Hungarian sports would be lost - of course, the rural clubs and workshops are excellent, but these six major metropolitan clubs must be very serious for us to be operational. The constructions of this must also be considered in what way, what kind of budget they can start with, how they might be able to stand on their own feet in the future, but it will be a long time. So there is also a special thanks to all the local governments, who, by the way, help sports clubs in their district and obviously also six large clubs in the capital. My colleague György Szilágyi spoke about the fact that the history of BSE is a specific case. Sports economists have argued a lot, and they still argue about how many major metropolitan clubs the capital itself can afford. I remember there's been a debate for at least 20 years about whether or not different clubs would be grouped together, whether this is working or not. Now I don't want to give examples, this is an old debate, Vasas, Újpest, Csepel, a lot of things have been said about which clubs could possibly be combined. This could be a major social debate, at least the debate of those involved in the world of sport. One thing is certain: MTK has entered into an agreement with BSE, and so it has, and so it has. The responsibility this capital has now, and I do not think it is worth bringing here and not a debate within the walls of this House, this question has already been decided. MTK has started a successful development, and we should be glad that they have a serious sport strategy for this development. As a criticism, the fact that there are geographical figures in the Annex and there is no detailed description of the area, and at the same time our fellow Member from the LMP spoke of why this should be described in such detail. We strive to better describe the real estate and the cases, and also the objectives that are obviously due to Parliament, and also to ensure that all processes are transparent. I think there is no problem with us giving a more detailed description of this area, or even giving a map of the site, if necessary, you can look at it calmly. BVSC has a specific situation because there is mixed ownership and MÁV has a part of the property in BVSC. We didn't handle the National Sports Centre, I might add, but obviously that's no excuse. The point is that we have seen this hiatus, and we are now trying to settle this issue with a completely decent attitude. And when this is settled at BVSC... - there may be an amendment, this will be decided by the group of our fellow Members whether or not they wish to submit an amendment to this. One thing is certain: we want to act in accordance with the law, that is our goal, and at the same time we want to settle the property issue for BVSC; it is precisely because if you want to develop facilities, this development programme should also have a legal basis. We are open to more detailed information, so if there is any such question, we will show this and we will be available. He mentioned the involvement of environmental bodies, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, in order to say that here the decisions and processes of the organising committee for the 2017 World Water Championship can be seen and given a kind of green perspective. Obviously, we will signal this to the Commissioner, Balázs Fürjes, who is responsible for this project, and we will forward this comment. I think it is very important to be multi-party, so it is very important that the local government is involved, it is very important that József Tóth, the mayor of the Angel Land, is part of this organising committee, cooperating partner, it is important that everyone agrees on this. This is a large enterprise of Hungary, in our history we could have the largest sporting event in 2017. So it's important here... - I really thank you very much for yesterday's decision, or the day before yesterday, I don't know, when Parliament is here, it was decidedly voted by everyone to make progress on this programme. We have very little time until 2017, so it is important not to be late in this case. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is no longer here, but he also mentioned that he once again raised a subject concerning information law, that we had not so long changed this part of the sports law, and here he brought forward the Puskás Academy to avoid seeing how much tao money he receives; there is no such thing. This was the request of the Hungarian Football Association, and it was the request of the sports professional association that certain business secrets, certain sponsorships, should not be made public every day. There's no such thing. The Tao system is a transparent system, everyone knows exactly what kind of association, which club will receive Tao support while it can still benefit. Thank you for your support to the Member of the LMP and for what you have said with regard to trust law. Finally, Congressman György Szilágyi mentioned once again the financial situation of BHSE. You're not in a good position, but it's not my place to make a statement on behalf of the BHSE. We would like you to be in a better position, indeed, we do remember the old days when, say, the Ministry of Defence was completely behind the Budapest Hungarian Defence Department, the Ministry of Interior behind the Újpest Dózsa, the cooperatives behind Ferencváros and the rest. There has been a change of system, a lot has changed in the last 20-25 years, and obviously the big clubs, the big sports clubs from behind very, very many companies, a lot of companies and ministries have been eliminated. As far as I know, the Ministry of Defence is still trying to support BHSE from its budget, I understand that it grants some HUF 50 million this year. [[13.00]] This is a collaboration that, if my memories are still correct, is about the physical assessment of soldiers taking place, among other things, on the properties of the BHSE, and this is a mutually effective and good cooperation. It also bears the name Honvéd of Budapest, which clearly refers to the soldiers and the Ministry of Defence. However, from 50 million forints - everyone knows - a BHSE cannot be maintained. It's a little help, which is significant and good, but that doesn't make Honvéd work, that's not enough. This is what we will now need to assess, how large clubs need operating costs, how they can sustain themselves. Without State aid, this will not work and will not work, and otherwise they will not be able to achieve their development. That is why I believe that we must strive to ensure that reasonable, sensible facilities development programmes can also be implemented, for this reason, so that these clubs also have the right to trust. Thank you again, everyone, once again, for the valuable comments and statements of support. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendments can be submitted by 4 p.m. tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2000 XLII on water transport. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4016. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-01-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the register of seafarers' and ship's medical fitness doctors, maintained by the shipping authority, operates within the appropriate legal framework. International conventions and EU legislation also require that seafarers' fitness be certified according to what requirements and who the doctors who can carry out the inspections may be. As a State Party to the International Convention on Maritime Affairs, Hungary should lay down rules on the recognition of doctors and keep a register of doctors authorised to carry out inspections. Data from the register shall be and may be provided at the request of seafarers, shippers, firms or authorities. Hungary is involved in the regulation because of hundreds of Hungarian sailors, because under the international convention, any person working on a ship is considered to be a sailor. Thus, not only professional seafarers, officers, engineers, but also persons who work on the ship - waiters, musicians, chefs - are considered seafarers under the international convention. The international convention is implemented at ministerial level, but legal conditions must be established for the establishment of a public register and for the management of the data in the register. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Water Transport Act also contributes to improving the safety of water transport by regulating the health guarantees of workers on board ships. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/4016. I'd like you to attack bill number one. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-04-01-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There is a proposal for harmonisation, as Mr Secretary of State has said: the European Commission has launched infringement proceedings against our country because of the lack of transposition of Directive 2012/35/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 amending Directive 2008/106/EC on the minimum level of training of seafarers. A 2014/0462. XLII 2000 on water transport is necessary in order to conclude the infringement procedure launched as soon as possible. Amendment of law for harmonisation purposes. We can talk about the navy in Hungary today only in perspective, but it has not always been so. In the seventies and eighties, more than twenty ships were on international seas under the Hungarian flag, but now there is no ship in operation. In Hungary, however, there are still 197 cabin tourist ships per year in the maintenance of 37 owners and operators, with capacity of more than 30 thousand people. In 1984, a treaty on transit rights in non-coastal countries was concluded in San Francisco, which allowed such countries to participate in maritime trade. It is interesting that Italy and Croatia, as maritime states, cannot impose a higher tax or levy on our country than they do. This market is therefore open to Hungary in international law and through the EU, a potential untapped area. Thus, although we do not have our own seas and sailors in this form, the question of the working conditions and health safety of seafarers is not as irrelevant for tourism as it seems at first. Before I present to you the most important points of the bill, please allow me to brief you on the international and European legal context of this proposal. The training and certification of seafarers shall be governed by the International Convention on the Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers, adopted within the International Maritime Organisation, which entered into force in 1984 and substantially amended in 1995. The STCW Convention was first incorporated into Union law by Council Directive 2004/38/EC of 22 November 2004 on the minimum level of training of seafarers. Subsequently, EU rules on the training and certification of seafarers were adapted in accordance with subsequent amendments to the Convention and a common EU mechanism for the recognition of training and certification systems for seafarers from third countries was established. EU rules on this subject are set out in Directive 2008/106/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. A number of significant amendments to the Convention were made at the Conference of States Parties to the STCW Convention held in Manila in 2010. The areas covered by the amendment included the prevention of fraud in relation to certificates, safety training and technological training. Health requirements have also been amended at this conference. In order to fully transpose the Directive, each Member State should set up a system of institutions for the examination of the medical fitness of seafarers in which seafarers are examined by a recognised doctor and registered by the maritime authority. All Member States, including our country, are parties to the STCW Convention and none of them have objected to the Manila amendments under the procedure envisaged for this purpose. Member States should therefore align their national rules with Manila amendments. In doing so, there should be no conflict between the international and EU commitments of the Member States. In addition, in view of the global nature of shipping, EU rules on the training and certification of seafarers should be maintained in accordance with international rules. The bill provides for the application of the labour law provisions of maritime conventions published by law as a special rule in addition to the labour law provisions of the Labour Code and the Water Transport Act. The proposal also allows the collective agreement to set the weekly rest period more favourable than the legislation in force for 70 hours. This rule should be incorporated into the law because of the transposition of the EU directive. The practical application of the rule will not take place within a short period of time because there is no union of seafarers. In Hungary, the provisions of Article 21/2002 concerning the conditions and procedures for the inspection of ship's medical fitness are laid down. The GKM-ESzCsM Joint Regulation regulates, in part compatible with the Directive, the health fitness assessment of seafarers. However, as regards the requirements for seafarers' doctors, it is necessary to amend the Regulation in order to allow only seafarers to be inspected by doctors registered by the shipping authority as a maritime authority in accordance with the international requirements to be implemented by the Directive. Since the ship's authority has a public record of doctors examining shippers and seafarers, an official register of qualified doctors should be provided for by law to amend the Water Transport Act. [[13.10]] With regard not only to seafarers, but also to inland waterway vessels, the shipping authority should have an insight into the medical fitness of inland waterway vessels. If requested by the shipping authority, it shall certify, on the basis of a register, that the seafarers' or inland waterway ship's health certificate has been issued by the qualified doctor or informed of the scope of the doctors authorised to be examined. In addition to the interpretation provisions of the Act, it seeks to explain the new concepts introduced in connection with the amendment of its provisions on special labour law. Finally, it should be mentioned that the European social partners also agreed on minimum rest periods applicable to seafarers and, for the purpose of implementing this Agreement, the Council adopted Directive 1999/63/EC. Accordingly, in the proposal, the amendment of the specific legal provisions relating to the working time of the staff of a swimming establishment includes, on the one hand, the international agreements laying down provisions on special work and rest periods in the Water Transport Act and, on the other hand, the provision that the collective agreement sets the total daily and weekly rest rate for at least 70 hours is compatible with the Directive. Dear House, In view of the above, I call for the support of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Here comes Mrs Anita Heringes, lead speaker for the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We can't go past the fact that we're going to talk about the amendment of the law because the government has failed again. He couldn't or didn't want to comply with the requirements of international conventions. As you can see, once again, the government did not act at the expense of workers, and, unfortunately, it is possible to reopen an infringement procedure against Hungary. A failure to transpose the European Parliament and Council Directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers by the European Commission has led to infringement proceedings against Hungary. This shameful procedure could also have been avoided if the government had taken its obligations and the European Union seriously. It has been proven once again, and I am sorry to say that the current government is not able to cooperate smoothly with the European Union. This attitude is particularly painful because it is again done at the expense of workers by the government. In order to fully transpose the Directive, each Member State should set up a system of institutions for the examination of the medical fitness of seafarers in which seafarers are examined by a recognised doctor and registered by the maritime authority. We are now witnessing an ex post, delayed settlement of this task. According to international requirements, only doctors registered by the shipping authority may be entitled to inspect seafarers in the future. The amendment also contains a positive element for workers, namely that the collective agreement sets the total daily and weekly rest rate against the current one, which is 65 hours, at least 70 hours. This step is certainly an eligible and positive step for workers. Overall, they are eligible because, on the one hand, they have terminated an infringement procedure against Hungary, one of them, and, on the other hand, they contain amendments that improve workers' living conditions and working conditions, so the MSZP will support them. Thank you very much. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-04-01-56	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise I'll be brief, too. Basically, as has already been said, this bill, this amendment proposal, came to Parliament as a result of an EU infringement procedure. Of course, the Jobbik Group of the Movement for Hungary can also support it, even so that this infringement procedure can be terminated, and even so that the medical care and medical examination of seafarers and other workers on board the sea is more secure. I would like to add that, as the Secretary of State has said, it is not only in the interests of seafarers, but also in the interests of all Hungarians working on seaboards who find their welfare either as waiters or in other jobs - fleeing Hungary as an economic refugee. Their working conditions are often very stepdaughter, and they have an enormous amount of work to do. Of course, the same applies to seafarers, but perhaps there is a social group that is even more defenceless, since they left the country because of the search for financial opportunities and went to work in such working conditions, whether for a boat or for other land jobs, but since this amendment is now about maritime shipping, I have said a few words about them in the first place. To this end, it is also important to support this proposal and maritime shipping, once the proposal is already on maritime shipping, although it is not closely linked, it must always be said - and it has also been said from the mouth of the Fidesz lead speaker, Mr Völner - that Hungary is not a coastal country, but what a large number of tourists are arriving on board. It is therefore very important, and it is also important that the shipping route from the North Sea to the Black Sea, which takes place through the Danube-Rine-Majna Channel, should also be on Parliament's agenda, in such a way that Hungary remains the weakest link on this shipping route, especially at low water levels, since it is Hungary who has done nothing or at least very little in recent decades to improve the shipping capacity of the Danube. I have only noted this in parentheses, as the proposal concerns the medical examination of marine ships and the necessary qualifications of doctors, but it is not relevant, but it is absolutely desirable, as it is a matter of shipping. As I said, the proposal will be supported. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-58	Now, please, this means that we are at the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one asked for a two-minute speech. I would like to ask you, Honourable Parliament, if there is anyone else who would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I asked you, you answered, "No." Consequently, the general debate is closed as no one has made themselves known. Secretary of State, would you like to react? You have the floor, please.
u2015-04-01-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I thank you for your support for this bill. It is indeed a missing and important proposal that is important for maritime life. I must make a comment that, due to the lack of collective agreement, there is currently no group of workers who would have been adversely affected by the subsequent application of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-60	Thank you very much. The proposals for amendments, I will inform you, will be available tomorrow at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol follows. General debate on the draft law amending law on the settlement of administrative revenue until closure. The submission is T/4020. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-61	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure that the statutory regulation of the fees which constitute the revenue of the National Climate Protection Authority is in place and thus compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation under European Union law. In February this year, in accordance with EU law regulations, the Government decided on the establishment of the National Climate Protection Authority and its official tasks, as well as on the monitoring, monitoring and implementation of climate gas activities and the regulatory system in force since 15 January 2015. [[13.20]] The bill provides for the collection of a system of charges for the proper performance and implementation of the tasks of the National Climate Protection Authority. The mandatory task of the Authority comes from directly applicable EU legal regulations, which require an adequate financial background for the performance of their tasks. In addition, the new charging scheme will also cover costs related to the establishment and operation of the National Climate Protection Authority in order to reduce entrepreneurial burdens. Thus, the operation and operation of the Authority will not be liable to the central budget and it will be able to provide it with its own revenue. The proposed charges are therefore not intended to increase the entrepreneurship burden or even to reduce the planned charging system by between 25 and 40 per cent on average compared to the planned charges for the relevant market sector since 2009. The Authority's fee shall ensure the performance of regular official control tasks, the creation of specific physical and material conditions, the maintenance, operation of the so-called climate gas database covering the whole sector, the maintenance of training systems, the performance of certification and examination tasks. In this context, it lays down appropriate legislation on the regime for the payment of official supervisory fees, which also ensures transparency as regards the use and accounting of the fees collected. Since the entry into force of the Act on Economic Stability on 1 January 2012, Hungary has had a strict framework for both regulations and provisions on payment obligations affecting society. In view of this, the charging system to be established shall take into account the administrative tasks arising from the fulfilment of obligations arising from Union law, their volume and the size of the area concerned and its competitive position on the market. This is why we have decided to maintain and operate an electronic system that contributes to reducing the administrative burden on businesses, while at the same time making their work more efficient, up-to-date, more transparent and also facilitating the reporting obligation of businesses to the EU. This IT service started operations on 25 March 2015 with the name "Climate Gas Database'. The database shall include data relating to all data reporting, registration, marketing monitoring, the existence of reports, the audit of the maintenance and inspection tasks to be carried out by the authority and the record of qualifications and examinations. On the basis of these data, the Authority can monitor, respect and enforce legislation in this area. Dear Parliament, In the light of what has been said, the bill therefore proposes to introduce a charging system that ensures that both operators and the public authorities have adequate data records, data management and, in the event of an irregularity, there is an appropriate procedural action. On all these grounds, I ask you to support the bill after discussion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-01-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, keynote speakers will be held. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, please.
u2015-04-01-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/4020 before this House. The purpose of the bill is to settle the statutory rules on the fees that constitute the revenue of the National Climate Protection Authority. Since 2009, EU legislation has provided for the performance of official duties in the relevant regulatory area. These tasks are not defined by a directive, but by a regulation of EU law, which creates mandatory tasks in domestic legislation, even in the absence of domestic legislation. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of 18 February 2015. By adopting a government regulation, the Government has decided to set up the National Climate Protection Authority and, in accordance with EU legislation, to perform its official tasks, which is to carry out the regulatory system in force since 15 January 2015 under the control, supervision and legislation of climate gas activities. The system of payment of fees set out in the bill is necessary for the proper performance and execution of the national climate protection authority's duties and for ensuring its financial background. Dear House, The aim of the planned charges is not to increase entrepreneurship, and, on the basis of the data stored in the database, the planned fee scheme represents an average reduction of between 25 and 40 per cent compared to the system of fees paid to the relevant market sector since 2009. In addition to reducing the entrepreneurship burden, fees also cover costs related to the setting up and operation of the National Climate Protection Authority, so that the operation and operation of the Authority does not involve the central budget and can provide it with its own revenues. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, The HLH monitoring system has been replaced since 2009 by the Single Climate Gas Database managed by the National Climate Protection Authority, which started operating on 25 March 2015. The aim of the database is to monitor the use, use of air-conditioning and air-conditioning systems, heat pumps, fire protection equipment, air-gas systems in the MR sector that can change or change location, such as cooling units in cooling trucks and equipment containing or operating air-conditioning gases, the entry into service, use and disposal of air-gases. It is required to register in that Climate Gas Database in accordance with Article 14/2015. Government decree 5. All undertakings which manufacture, import or export, label and place on the market equipment containing or operated by air-conditioning or air-conditioning gas on the territory of the country, and any undertaking which buys, sells, uses, carries out a new label, performs leakage testing and recovery, regenerates, disposes of and provides for regeneration or disposal; any undertaking which carries out the installation, installation, labelling, maintenance, servicing, leakage testing, repair and out-of-use of an application which has been pre-filled or operated by air-conditioning gas; and any operator that operates, owns, owns or stores new applications that contain air-conditioning gas or newly installed, fluorinated, greenhouse gases other than defence applications. In the light of the stakeholders, it can be concluded that the new database and charging scheme concern approximately 3500 to 4,500 enterprises and about 100 to 150 thousand equipment. [[13.30]] The Climate Gas Database contributes to reducing the administrative burden on businesses while making their work more efficient and late to the day, thus also contributing to making it easier and easier for businesses to report to the EU. Dear House, Since the entry into force of the 14/2015 Government Decree on 18 February 2015, the Authority has received a number of requests which, in addition to the professional interest, welcome the emergence of official action. Preliminary inspections of the fee system and market feedback have also demonstrated that without the presence of an authority, the area of the branch concerned would be untraceable and opaque. The most important pillar of official surveillance and control activities is the Climate Gas Database, which represents virtually 840 dedicated and coherent Excel tables and associated electronic networks. All the data in the field is collected here, linked to each other. For example, data reporting and records, marketing monitoring, reporting, official control and management of maintenance and control tasks by owners, operators, monitoring of the validity of certificates and certificates relating to qualifications and examinations, inclusion of subjects, availability of training materials. Dear House, In the current economic situation, Hungarian businesses cannot be allowed to be more disadvantaged than their current situation. To this end, it is essential that the authority, provided that technical, physical and technical conditions are in place, ensure the conditions necessary for carrying out the activity, so that those for whom the system is operated also contribute to the maintenance. It is therefore essential to introduce a charging system that ensures that both operators and the public authorities have adequate data records and data management and that appropriate procedural action is taken in the event of an irregularity being detected. I ask this House to support the bill before us. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-01-64	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-01-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Harmonisation with EU law is a well-established process, but it is well-known and in any case necessary in relation to the framework agreement to mention the thoughts and actions of the Orbán government in relation to climate protection and climate policy assets. The objectives are clearly visible and defined by the Minister responsible for energy policy, while the Minister of National Economy is responsible for managing the assets and performing this task. However we look at it, climate protection has completely fallen apart from an administrative point of view. This dual management is unsustainable in the long term. The position of the MSZP remains that climate protection is an environmental issue that requires modern and responsible economic policy solutions. Fidesz's climate policy has been the most talkative fact that since 2010, while managing our entire domestic quota assets inaccessible and with minimal efficiency, the state has spent only a quarter of a stadium of money to modernise the energy efficiency of family homes. They've been promising a lot over the last semester, but no real steps have been taken. We generally do not object to the EU's climate policy in the open, but we do not do much to ensure effective restraint. Moreover, as you can hear, the Hungarian government is doing everything in the background to ease the EU's obligations. Orbán's official reason for this is that the Eastern states have already made their climate sacrifices in the fall of the industry. However, the reality is that the Orbán Cabinet would base energy self-sufficiency in addition to the nuclear industry on Hungarian coal wealth, which is their next step. While our neighbours are mainly based on EU resources on zero-emission wind and solar power plants, their licensing in Hungary has virtually stopped, as you have hit the solar panel with taxes and have not allowed nuclear power and solar energy to cooperate. It is also important to note that the Kyoto quota assets worth 300 billion forints in 2010 have now lost its value, even though, together with the sale, not only the billions remaining from previous sales, but also the improved green investment system that guarantees a sustainable reduction in the cost of the many tens of thousands of families. In view of the position taken so far by the MSZP, the above-mentioned and the wrong and wrong decisions made by the Orbán Government over the last five years in relation to the supply of quota assets, the amendment will not be supported or rejected by the MSZP parliamentary group, and will simply refrain from the issue in accordance with the practice of the past years. It draws attention to the fact that the government of Viktor Orbán caused the budget to lose tens of billions of HUF revenue due to the poor climate quota sales policy. A professionally appropriate sale would have meant a secure order for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and a reduction in the real maintenance of the daily living costs of hundreds of thousands of families, i.e. the implementation of a panel program of the same size as that carried out by left-wing governments. We think that this would be one of the most important steps to finally continue the panel program and take this matter seriously, because it really affects people. We will therefore abstain from voting.
u2015-04-01-66	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli is the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-04-01-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary basically supports this administrative amendment and measure, which is also partly based on Brussels regulations, but when it comes to climate protection, we always approach the issue from a little further away, because at the moment the European Union, although it is making strong efforts to protect climate protection, does not seem to be too effective, and at the same time it has a reading that limits its competitiveness from the other side. What I'm talking about. The world's largest greenhouse gas emitters are the United States and China - the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol is also mentioned in the proposal - which are still unwilling to commit to any kind of climate policy or climate protection, which in itself is already rather outrageous, as the European Union only accounts for perhaps 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions. So if we do everything we can to make sure that we do everything we can and limit our own economy and competitiveness so that as little gas as possible gets into the atmosphere, we cannot achieve a meaningful result compared to the fact that the large polluters and the large emitters consider their own economic development, their own development as the only aspect, and they do not address climate protection, they do not address environmental aspects. As long as this is the case, even if we take new and new measures, even if we squeeze that belt even further in terms of climate protection, this will only have a negative impact. It is also true, however, that an example must be set, and the European Union, Europe, is doing exemplary work in this regard when it lays down various legislative rules to prevent or control greenhouse gas emissions. The day before yesterday, in Brussels, there was a meeting of the committees of the parliaments of the Member States for climate policy in the building of the European Parliament, on which I could take part and explain our position on behalf of the Hungarian Parliament. The purpose of this discussion was to try to bring together the European Union's position at the climate summit in Paris in December, which Europe should represent there, because it is true that whatever criticism we have of the European Union in other areas, in the area of climate protection, we may be able to achieve something if all Europe speaks with one voice at this climate summit in Paris in December. [[13.40]] It is necessary to ensure that a binding decision is taken on the Parties, which can then be enforced in some way, because the previous climate agreements have been without it. The United States, China and other major polluters, who release large quantities of different air pollutants and refuse to take measures that could contribute to the world's fight against climate change, these countries seem to continue to fail and will not make any efforts and take firm targets in the future. That is because this is not in line with their interests at the moment, and in the long term, they do not take into account the interests which, let us say, the European Union is taking into account at the moment. Another issue is that, if we look at it within the European Union, Hungary stands quite well in this regard at the moment, because it is perhaps 36 percent below the 1990 emission level, but we always forget to add it, or at least if we hear it in pro-government speeches, that most of this was due to a heavy industry that has been broken down since then, unfortunately, to an economic restructuring. Unfortunately, because many factories have ceased to exist, plants have closed down, and this leads to job losses, beyond its positive environmental benefits, that there is no greenhouse gas emissions. Although new jobs have been created, they have, on the one hand, become a more small proportion and, on the other hand, in another structure, Hungary has become a assembly country in recent decades. Obviously, that type of activity involves much less energy use and thus much less greenhouse gas emissions than a manufacturing activity, or we can watch metalworking in the heavy industry, iron and steel production, or any other activity. Well, we must continue to strive in Hungary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions even more - I do not know if the quota trading system itself is suitable for this purpose. Here, the European Union is preparing to make further cuts to reduce the amount of quotas that can be allocated each year in an even greater proportion than before. You may be able to achieve something with this, but, I'm telling you, in all aspects of the whole, it's just a small fraction, and a real result, especially on a global scale, cannot be achieved on its own. And while the European Union is taking on such burdens, especially the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, it is said that this is the case, even though Hungary is responsible for only a small part of the emissions, yet shares the same share of the burden. In particular, we have room for improvement and development in terms of energy efficiency. In this respect, we have much capacity, and the greatest result in greenhouse gas emissions could perhaps be achieved where, if we were to save it, we would not have to produce the energy that is generated during energy production or even in the course of industrial activity. The problem with climate change or the main point is that when we start talking about climate change, it always comes to mind that this is caused by human activity or natural processes, in fact, from our point of view, none of which is a reason not to act. So it is possible for climate change believers or climate skeptics to come with their own arguments, obviously this will be an endless debate. The point is, then, that we, humanity, and we in the European Union and in Hungary, should do everything we can to make our environment as much as possible, either in terms of air or in terms of other environmental aspects. Therefore, we can and will support all measures to prevent climate change or to reduce warming. There is this magic number, this 2 degree, which is also included in the objectives of the European Union, so that the level of warming remains below 2 degrees and that efforts must be made to this end. Well, it's probably not the European Union's fault, but it's not gonna happen. The effects of this are already felt today, as natural disasters in the world are increasing and increasing. There is another aspect of this thing, since in this century, the XXI. The two main causes of migration in the century will be armed conflicts, wars and natural disasters. As a result of climate change, natural disasters occur in a very large part, and millions of people are on the road as a result of changes in climate conditions, as land may be destroyed, deserted, drinking water bases dry up, or natural disasters that make living impossible in a given region. This is why huge crowds are starting to go into the directions where we stand much better in the area of natural resources, and Europe is still relatively rich in Europe, whether it is drinking water or other natural resources. We must therefore be prepared to launch a wave of migration towards Europe and other areas rich in natural resources as a result of climate change. From now on, this is not necessarily an environmental or climate protection issue, but it is absolutely necessary to mention it, because climate change will have an impact. In order to avoid the effects, it is clear that prevention should be the most important focus, but at least the same should be taken into account that what we cannot prevent, which will happen, how we protect the effects of it; and that there will be, and there are already, such effects, and, unfortunately, they are expected to increase in the near future. The most important of the findings of the Brussels conference was that the most important findings were that the European Union must bring determined and much more ambitious targets to the Paris climate summit and the huge diplomatic body that the European Union has, which means that about 3,000 European Union and about 90 thousand Member States' diplomats are currently this diplomatic network, in relations outside the European Union, that each country should do as much as possible for climate protection, because at the moment this diplomatic network is not working properly. If we manage to do this, and we can go to this Paris Climate Summit with measures of our own, we can achieve tangible results, no matter how little tangible it will be, and countries that have taken part in climate protection, in the fight against climate change that have not done so far, we have already made some progress. Although it is feared that this will not be enough, because we always say that we are at 24 hours or the last second of its last minute, when we can still do something to reverse this - if we can do so, because here again the question arises whether human activity can control or slow down this process, which we call global warming or climate change, even with its own activities. I was a little distracted from the point of view of the proposal itself, but when it comes to climate protection, these must always be said here, within the walls of the Parliament. Once again, it is an amendment of a kind that, if we do not necessarily agree with the entire European Union's climate policy instruments and the quota system itself, we can put this aside in order to ensure that, if it brings the least benefit to climate change or global warming, why not support it - so we will support it in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-04-01-68	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker for the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-01-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to pick up where my better fellow Member left off and immediately ask, Jobbik says that it supports me if it brings the least benefit. Where do you see him? Where can you see in this text that this will benefit the Hungarian climate? So I couldn't find this in her. I've read it carefully, here are the different sections underlined, but there's no such thing. We are debating climate policy here in Parliament for more than one time, but I really feel that if the Fidesz government had to talk about its climate policy, as if - I don't know - I was teaching horses to swim on the back, and I pray that I wish I could bring back Elias Zoli, at least he knew what he was talking about. So where is it that this whole legislation would contribute anything to reducing greenhouse gas emissions? Where do you contribute? [[13.50]] Show me the section - here is the codified text - that will achieve any reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. There's no such thing! It's a tax collection! The Orbán government sees in the whole climate policy that some money can be collected for the budget. I look at the words used in the explanatory statement: reporting obligations, administrative tasks, financing of administrative costs. Where is this from what President Kósa said, that there will be a bureaucracy reduction? Reporting obligations are provided for in such a way that, if they are not complied with, immediate recovery of taxes can be made within eight days. It's a client-friendly measure! And then we want to finance the National Climate Protection Authority. But why is that necessary? Tell me this. Believe me, the LMP does not chase dreams that it will address Hungarian voters with climate policy, it is just a simple professional interest. Why do we need a National Climate Protection Authority once we've had an Environmental and Natural Protection Authority that they said we don't have to do on our own because it's not good, we put it in the government office, we shut it all down because we're cutting red tape, and then they're setting up an independent level of authority for a part of their job. What's the point? How will the establishment of this authority serve to achieve any objective that the Kyoto Convention would involve? I do not understand the approach to dealing with an environmental problem in such a way that it will only be a collection of funds. Because if we did this, and this legislation would say that every single forint we collect is fully, 100%, to reduce this type of gas emissions, I might understand something. But to create an administrative system, to increase red tape, a very difficult-to-use information system - no matter how many of these are in the country, which cannot be used well, but which we have at our disposal - to finance a regulation of a kind that requires businesses to pay a certain amount of fluorinated greenhouse gases, I do not understand how it serves the purpose. As an environmentalist myself, with a little gloat, yeah, they're fined, and they're taking a little extra money. But why? Why do you have to do this? To increase bureaucracy? Set up another authority? Create another database? Is this in the interests of the Hungarian people? I don't see the conceptual purpose of this. If the government says I want a good climate policy, we have to go that way. Your government has done, in a completely commendable way, a good adaptation strategy, an adaptation strategy, which is about how Hungarian society must prepare for what the Hungarian society must do about climate change - perhaps the largest global environmental crisis in the history of mankind we can talk about. In this adaptation strategy, there are a lot of things, the settlement of the agricultural water supply in the lowland areas, the way in which drinking water is provided in the capital and in the big cities, the shadowy and shadowy way in which public transport is provided, and a lot of measures that can be supported by the opposition. That's your strategy. This was born in your time of government. But they are not trying to achieve this, we are not looking at the implementation of this here, we are not even seeing the implementation of their own strategy anywhere; it has come to the same fate as the national rural strategy, that they have made a good strategy, and then they go in a stark contrast to not having one. There is no resources to implement this adaptation strategy, there is no proper government intention, if anything happens in this, then only pennies are available in a single application, and the system freezes the day after the application is launched, because it turns out that the funds are scarce. So, with such a failing solution, something happens, while a multitude of counterproductive activities are taking place in the country. As an LMP, I obviously don't think that any narrow electoral layer can be addressed. I simply ask with environmental interest: how will Hungary's objective be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions? I don't see that in this law. There is not a single section in this which would serve this purpose. It's just creating a database and collecting money. It's the codified text, and there's nothing else in it. I am always happy to listen to President János Áder, when he goes up to the gallery and says very nice words about sustainable development and climate policy, which he likes to reflect that he calls himself the head of the green state, and at the same time we always talk about the Hungarian reality... The CO2 emissions did not fall this way during the Orbán government, did they? They always say how drastically the emissions have fallen. Indeed, as my better fellow Member said, 20-25 years ago, with the loss of 20 percent of GDP and a multitude of jobs, this was lost, with a very great sacrifice. But it hasn't decreased in the last five years. We have all the technology to reduce it. We have all the means to reduce the amount of use. But we're not doing that. We're going in a completely different direction. I don't really want to play cards anymore, because I don't want to get on your nerves by playing cards again, but we could come up with the production of renewable energy sources. It would be possible to come up with what this government has done in order to prevent us from changing from the whole European trend. Even Romania is ahead of us when the share of renewable energy sources needs to be increased. My apologies, the example may seem pejorative, but a society in a worse economic situation can also substantially increase its energy production from renewable energy sources, but Hungary cannot. Hungary has committed 13 percent by 2020 with the smallest ambition, but it will not be able to achieve that either. We're going behind the back, and we're going to pretend that all Europe is stupid, that it doesn't know where to go, that it stupidly chooses solar energy and wind energy, but we alone, with the sage stone in our pockets, think we're pursuing a good energy policy. A conceptual change of energy policy is needed. It would be necessary to help households across society to use all the means available to reduce emissions. Instead, we have this proposal here, referring to the Kyoto Protocol, which, neither at multiple readings nor at all at the seven stages, partially looking at, does not achieve this background by accepting the justification. What are you doing, though? It collects money, which it devotes to the database operated by the authority responsible for climate protection, introduces an annual climate control inspection fee, regardless of how these companies will manage and do not reduce emissions to any extent. Then what's your purpose? Looks like it's all about collecting money. We're gonna put the collection into a green cover so that money can be collected so that it doesn't serve the purpose for which we signed this agreement. It seems superficially that this may seem to be our international obligation. But it's not like that! The international obligation sets out the goals that we need to achieve. The Hungarian government will choose its means by what it will bring to Parliament as a legislative proposal to meet those objectives. Last year more than two thirds of all energy investments in the European Union went to the renewable energy industry, i.e. green energy is now the main stream, while nuclear, coal, oil and natural gas are alternative auxiliary energy sources in the European Union. On the other hand, Hungary is going in the opposite direction and is not following this in any way. Is it because we are smarter or wiser than all of Europe? Or is it just because we don't understand this right, and there's no government climate policyr who knows how to do that? If I look through the entire Ministry of Agriculture specialty, I have to admit that they certainly have excellent energy experts and a lot of other areas, but there is no one who can specifically understand climate policy and would know how to do that. I just mentioned Zoltán Elijah's name, at least he was a specialist in these areas, and he knew what was appropriate and practical to do and what was not. At times like this, I miss the fact that this professionalism is completely lacking in this proposal. Over the past four years, the government has limited the construction of wind power plants by administrative means, and we are alone in this entire European Union, even though, to the best of our knowledge, a multitude of investors would plan to do so. On the other hand, we tax solar panels and heat pumps. And then we come here and we talk about supporting climate protection. Please, it's not like that. The government wants to raise money with this legislation, and it wants to disguise it as if it's trying to broadcast any kind of environmental perspective, even though it's not. I must see it, and I ask you to accept that this legislation has no impact on the earth's climate. You create an authority, a database, collect the money to operate it, but this doesn't affect the Earth's climate. And they're saying that's why it's necessary. It's not like that. It would be good if this regulation and the spirit of the entire Kyoto Convention were transposed into the Hungarian legal system with real results. I agree with Prime Minister that the economy is very important, an instrument for the creation of social well-being, but for the economy it is the 21st century. In the century, there are already many solutions that do not emit harmful gases and do not emit risky elements on the climate. This can be done. There are a lot of ways to do this. The means of this stand before you, and you have the opportunity to do so, but you are talking about something that practically doesn't exist, because the Orbán government obviously doesn't have a climate policy. I resent this because I think what I have said before, one of the most important crises in humanity, is how we will manage this climate change. [[14.00]] Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that you have a completely normal and usable strategy, and that resources must be used to implement it. This would be the solution, not to increase bureaucracy contrary to their own approach, to create a new authority, while arguing two weeks ago or three weeks ago why we did not need independent authorities when we merged the green authority into the government office. I would ask you to be consistent with the objectives and the means to at least try to follow your own principles, because what I am talking about is, most of the time, a principle that you have set on your flag and I can agree with as a opposition politician. We are talking about achieving this, and this implementation is completely wrong for the purpose. Please accept this, without any political intent, that this is completely inadequate to achieve Hungary's climate policy goals. This legislation cannot serve this purpose, I propose to you a full rethink of climate policy, and I would suggest that government resources be used to implement the adaptation strategy. It would make much more sense than the introduction of such feuds and the creation of new salt offices, which also do not serve the purpose on their behalf. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-01-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since there is no independent Member in the Chamber, no one has submitted a two-minute speech, no Members have submitted their written submissions, and I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to live. This means that no one has submitted a further statement that the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. Do you wish now? [[Zsolt Szabó: Is there no way to close?]] Here you go.
u2015-04-01-71	Mr President, Dear House, The information and opinion raised in connection with this legislative amendment proposal has been taken over from so many other topics, and I think that I need to clarify some of the issues. One was the issue of CO2 emissions, i.e. the CO2 quota. Here, our fellow Member from LMP and our fellow Member from MSZP also raised some questions. What is the advantage of this amendment, what does it bring in terms of the CO2 quota? Three things. Firstly, we will finally see clearly in opaque training and vocational training. What's this about? At the moment, there is a possibility and a way for someone to take the exams for air conditioning and fluorinating. However, they do not make use of this because these exams cost too much, and they are equipped by professionals who may not be doing the right and good. The other subject, which is again very interesting, is that it builds a transparent, transparent and traceable system. That is why I do not understand the related thoughts of my fellow Member of the LMP, since it has been a kft since 2009. He kept a record of this system, founded by private companies. We are now bringing this to government level, creating a uniform system with a transparent, clean, uploaded database. It will be completely clear and functional. The other thing is the CO2 quota. So far, it has been determined on the basis of the quantity of coolant. Now we're cutting it down to carbon dioxide, just to keep track of it, and we can solve the question of being comparable. Some interesting ideas on the issue of the European Union. In fact, the EU has decided to jointly represent climate policy and, in particular, to treat the system in a uniform manner in renewable energy. Not 13.5 percent, 14.6, this is what we have committed, the EU in total 20%. Also, the European Union has accepted that in an energy mix, everyone puts their own energy sources together in the light of its economic advantage as it is good for them. This, I believe, is in line with the economic situation of all countries. And CO2 emissions need to look at the numbers. We're going forward nicely. Moreover, in the next period, two new EU proposals concerning the SME sector confirm that we should not only be a assembly country, but that small and medium-sized enterprises should develop as much as possible. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here to one thing: the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises are underfunded. This means that they have little working capital funding. We have also introduced these regulations in the new EU seven-year cycle so that they can better, easier access to money, easier access to credit and easier access to low-interest own working capital financing. I ask that we wait for the end of this economic process, because these things do not happen immediately. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Interesting questions, panel programs, condominiums and more have been raised. I'm just saying, in the last six months, we've published HUF 12.7 billion of tender money, which is available, a Home Gay Program. I'd be happy to help anyone in this circle. New EU period: 80 billion is allocated specifically to the population, 15 percent is a Hungarian resource, 85 percent is an EU resource for the energy renovation of residential properties. And when the solar power plant comes out, I'd like to draw attention to two things. 1. MEDAR is preparing; the new regulation will be completed by the end of this year in the framework of the mandatory energy storage system. 2. We have spent nearly 30 billion forints on solar panels in recent years. The cost of solar cells, which, by the way, is constantly falling on the world market, and the cost of a kilowatt investment has been reduced by 30-40 percent over the past period. These investments have been made. We are very happy to provide information on where, where and how these investments take place. And the Kyoto quota sale itself, the quota settlement. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's not forget, the big decision will be in Paris in December at the end of this year. The UN is holding a climate conference, isn't it? Who has a quota, whether it is a Kyoto quota or a European Union quota, or a fluorgas quota, will fall into very, very, very heavy weight and weight there. In the course of the negotiations, it doesn't matter what position we can negotiate. Therefore, this regulation, this legislation, is very necessary because of transparency and handling. I would like to ask my fellow Members that, if they have any professional questions, I would be very happy to help. One more important point about the legislative proposal: it's not an FM, it's an NFM submission, so it belongs to the Ministry of National Development. And on climate issues, we are very happy to provide figures, information and data on the process of negotiations, professional content and the impact of the law on CO2 emissions. I would very much like to ask my fellow Members to support this legislative proposal in their awareness of clarity, transparency and accurate recording of information. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-01-72	Welcome, fellow Members. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a parliamentary decision on the national policy for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste until closure. The submission is H/3883. ) can be found on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-01-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and for your patience while we exchanged seats here with Mr Secretary of State. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal for a decision before you is Hungary's policy on spent fuel and radioactive waste management. The Euratom Directive on the management of radioactive waste requires Member States to establish national policies, national programmes and national systems for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and to lay down requirements for them. [[14.10]] In order to ensure the provisions of the directive, the Nuclear Energy Act obliges the Government to submit national policy to Parliament. The proposal for a parliamentary decision describes the use of radioactive materials and the current application of nuclear energy in Hungary, laying down the principles to be followed, the obligations arising from the directive. National policy sets out the types of radioactive waste, spent fuel and sets out policies for their management and the decommissioning of nuclear installations, thus providing a framework for the tasks to be developed in the national programme and their timetable. National policy is in line with all provisions of the Directive and the Nuclear Energy Act. Under the Nuclear Power Act, the National Assembly will review the existing national policy every five years to present the Government, which will allow the document to be amended to ensure the highest level of security policy. Dear Parliament, The proposal for a decision before you lays the foundations for a policy of spent fuel and radioactive waste management, along the lines of principles already contained in the legislation in force. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the resolution proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-01-74	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I therefore give the floor to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-01-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for responsible and safe management of radioactive waste lays down comprehensive rules for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and provides for the establishment of a national policy, national programme and national system, as well as a system of requirements relating thereto. Under the Directive, Member States should notify the European Commission of the content of their national programme implementing national policy as soon as possible and by 23 August 2015 at the latest. CHAPTER XXI It would be difficult to imagine Hungary's economy in the first century without the use of radioisotopes and nuclear technologies. Nuclear technology is widely used in industry, health care and plays a key role in electricity production. A nuclear power plant share of almost 40 percent of the country's electricity needs keeps the price of electricity at a level that can be tolerated. At the same time, the use of nuclear power will drive society to face and solve certain problems. Recognizing this, the National Assembly created the new 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy in 1996. a law requiring the disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuel, the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle and the decommissioning of nuclear installations to be carried out by a body designated by the government. On 2 June 1998, the Radioactive Waste Management Company was established in this spirit, which on 7 January 2008 became the Public Benefit Nonprofit Ltd., adapted to the forms of business in the Union. The most important of the technical tasks of the coming years are the operation and expansion of the temporary storage of national radioactive waste and spent cartridges, the improvement of the safety of radioactive waste processing and storage, which also involves increasing storage capacity, and the designation of a storage site for the permanent disposal of long-lived high-activity waste. The domestic legislation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy complies with the European Union's requirements. The plans already include waste generated by the extended operating time of the four blocks operating on Paks, as well as the two building blocks. This national policy sets out the requirements for the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and how it fits with existing programmes. It is the government's task to develop a national policy programme, ranging from generation to finalisation, with annual mid- and long-term plans revised. Nuclear energy can only be used without endangering human life. The social benefits of nuclear energy must be greater than the risks taken. Hungary is responsible for the safe, socially acceptable management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. In parallel with the development of science and experience, the system should be kept under constant review and a strong emphasis should be placed on the training and further training of professionals. The use of nuclear energy should aim to minimise the amount of waste generated. In the future, the two new nuclear power stations at the Paks site will also contribute to an increase in the amount of spent fuel. Today, there are basically two directions for closing the fuel cycle: open fuel cycle and recycling. Currently, plans for four active blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should be drawn up taking into account the extended operating time and the open fuel cycle. Any solution is chosen to close the nuclear fuel cycle while taking into account the new nuclear power plant blocks, planning should be carried out with regard to the final installation in the deep geological reservoir. The policy of closing the fuel cycle with regard to spent fuel of domestic non-nuclear origin is that our country makes use of the possibility of returning to Russia. If, in the future, it is decided, taking into account strategic, technical and economic aspects, that the country does not make use of the possibility of return to Russia, further domestic temporary storage of the low-enriched spent cooling reactor fuel remaining in Hungary and the conditions for final disposal, together with spent fuel of nuclear power plant origin, should be started immediately. The Hungarian storage facilities must be designed in such a way that the site, the receiving rock and the technical solutions used are adapted to the characteristics of the waste placed together to ensure that the waste is isolated from the living environment. The application of this policy has reached the stage of implementation, which means that the disposal of low and medium-activity radioactive waste is carried out in dedicated containers. The disposal of high-activity radioactive waste in Hungary should be resolved in a stable, deep and geological storage facility. At this point, the policy of the disposal of radioactive waste is linked to the fuel cycle closure policy. Depth geological radioactive storage shall be designed and constructed in such a way that high-activity and long-lived radioactive waste and spent fuel can be placed together. In addition, the recovery of radioactive waste is an important element. I ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2015-04-01-76	I now give the floor to Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-04-01-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, this proposal and debate is about a national policy for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, but the substance itself contains several references to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, so allow me to refer to a previous debate or previous debates on the expansion of nuclear power stations here in Parliament. The biggest problem is that such a national policy on this enlargement, such a strategy, has not been adopted. Although, of course, they will refer to a parliamentary decision in 2009, which is about this, but this decision contained a number of provisions which are now available in this paper, which concerns a wide range of social dialogue, which concerns the need to ensure the participation of various organisations and professional organisations, and only then can a concrete decision be taken, but this has not been taken. [[14.20]] This is not what I hope will happen with this national policy, with this strategy, that the House will accept, and you will not do anything about it, just as a lot of provisions from the 2009 parliamentary resolution have not been implemented, as you have encrypted a great deal of information about the expansion of the nuclear power stations, and Viktor Orbán has concluded an unexpected secret pact in Moscow with Vladimir Putin, on the basis of which you have taken the decision on enlargement. The substance itself refers, as I have said, to an independent organisation in many of its provisions, but there is also a provision to establish effective legislation and to ensure that an independent body or body supervising the safety of the peaceful use of nuclear energy is established. It includes provisions to ensure that information on the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is available to all, including ensuring that public authorities inform the public of matters within their competence. It includes provisions on the possibility for the public to receive information on spent fuel and radioactive waste management and to participate effectively in the decision-making process. And in many, many points, it is about the fact that you do not seek the opinion of the public, the Hungarian people, on enlargement in relation to nuclear energy and peaceful exploitation, while I would like to ask you about the waste from it. I wanted to draw attention to this duality. The proposal itself, as I mentioned, contains a sentence that it is necessary to ensure effective participation in the decision-making process, and then towards the end of the matter, towards the end of the national policy strategy, we have read a provision that makes this participation in the decision-making process a public hearing. I think that participation in decision-making will not be exhausted in public hearing. What is the decision to listen to the views of the citizens concerned and the people living there during a public hearing? I therefore think that decision-making should be a real decision-making process, and not only in the residential group that this material now records, as there is also a provision towards the end of the material that the domestic radioactive waste management programme and the spent fuel management programme are linked to four locations: Bishops' Sylágy-Kishnémedi, Bátaapáti, Paks and Boda. The number of inhabitants of the affected settlements is close to 90,000, which is already significant in the national context. It is analysed here that, according to polls, the people living there are supporting these bins, or researches, or new storages, whether in Bodan. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, in the case of Boda, there is a 150,000 city, Pécs, just over 10 kilometers away. I see that by asking for the opinion of people living in a small settlement, this national policy has not yet been implemented, this national strategy, because the residents of Pécs, citizens of Pécs, have the right to express their opinion and to take part in the decision-making process, not in the form of a public hearing, but even in the form of a local referendum. Therefore, I will propose an amendment, which concerns that participation in the decision-making process should take place not in the context of a public hearing, but in the context of a local referendum, and that the government and then Parliament should, of course, create the legal conditions for people living there and for Hungarian citizens living not only in the settlement, but also in the area of the settlement, to be able to express their views and really participate in the decision-making process. Therefore, if the amendment is not supported by the governing majority and the citizens of Pécs will not be able to express their views on this, the Socialist Group will not be able to support this national policy, this strategy, this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-78	I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-01-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important that we talk about radioactive waste and nuclear technology in Hungary today, especially with such topicality, with the right temperament and the right calmness. In recent times, we have experienced in one direction the hysteria that the left-wing opposition has obviously not done without political interests in building new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and on the other hand, we have often experienced by the governing parties everything that is subject to the entrepreneurial background and economic interest groups, which is the end of the other, I believe, this scale. In a rational way, it is natural for Hungary to need nuclear energy and nuclear technology. Every time this question came up before Parliament, we said that. Of course, when it comes to the peaceful use of nuclear technologies, whether for nuclear power plants, research reactors, medical or other purposes, there is also a need for appropriate treatment of high-activity and low- and medium-activity waste generated here. These are dangerous waste. There are many ways around the world to deal with these waste, but they have one thing in common: proper care and care must be taken when we talk about their treatment. I would not go into the topic of nuclear power plant expansion right now, because that is not our agenda today, but I would rather agree to the question of how radioactive waste has been managed in Hungary in recent decades. Unfortunately, for the last 24 years, too, it has been the case, especially for the last 12 or a few years, that the background of entrepreneurship has often been overwritten by real aspects and real needs. This has also happened in the creation and construction of the small and medium-activity radioactive waste storage facility in Bátaapát. What's this about? In the area of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the tools, devices, protective clothing, components that come from the primary circuit, directly from the reactor environment, were worn by the workers, which are placed in barrels through various cleaning processes in the small and medium activity reservoir area of Bátaapát. The radiation and radiation pollution of these were extremely low, so much so that there were studies that showed that when the reservoir was created, the mined granite, which had to be removed in order to bring the radioactive waste down there, had more radiation and more radiation than the waste that was taken down there. This can be given the truth, it can be rejected or denied, of course it is a matter of fact that the rock that was extracted from Bátaapáti has radiation, what radiation pollution it has, and the other question is that in many places around the world these small and medium-activity waste is stored in surface reservoirs, saying that it does not pose such a threat to the environment. This is one aspect, and the other is to take it down to hundreds of meters, where appropriate, and place it in various caves in such a way that it can never be accessed again, and it will be safe there for centuries. [[14.30]] I think this kind of waste management method, which takes place in Bátaapáti, is a multiple over-insurance of small and medium-activity waste. Once again, for example, we are talking about work robes that were worn several times, say, in the primary circle by the workers, but then it was a washing process, so the radioactive contamination practically disappeared from it, and that's how it got into barrels, which is how it got into the reservoir. I've been to the Babafather reservoir several times, I've spent hours by these barrels, and then the radiation gate showed no radiation contamination. So this shows that we are not talking about the same specific weight of waste as we are talking about spent fuel. And what do we see? A lot of people forget that. The spent fuel, since the nuclear power plant was built, has been placed in a surface building in the Paks nuclear power plant in the temporary storage of spent tapes. Hundreds, thousands of people work in the environment every day, and yet they do not receive more exposure than is permitted, even though it is clearly a question of high - activity spent fuel. Plus, I haven't had a delivery from there in years, so the spent fuel is constantly gathering. So, after all the hysteria, but also taking into account excessive caution, it should be said that the economic aspects of radioactive waste management in Hungary often dominated beyond rationality, as it was a huge business at the time, this is still related to the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, the establishment of the Bátaapát waste storage facility. It was designed at an extremely high cost. Think about it: a hundred-meter bore in a granite block, and then when we get down to the right depth, create different chambers there, anyway, it's a horriable cost! So a few billion forints in or out of this kind of investment doesn't show up that much, it's easier to get the money out of it. Speaking of what happened to the granite that was mined, rumors, rumors said that the granite was built into the foundation of the M6 motorway, which was supposed to be exposed or contaminated more than the waste. Let each of you decide how logical that is or how it is for radiation protection, for the protection of people's health. It is clear that money has played the most important role here, as is usually the case with large investments in Hungary, and the resources available to various interest groups, which can be stolen from this, we call things by name. Nevertheless, it is also included in the current national policy, and it has long been known that research is being carried out in Boda for the preparation of a high-activity storage facility. Here, too, we need to draw attention to the fact that although it is necessary to ensure the disposal of high-activity waste in Hungary's responsibility, it is important to pay close attention to how and under what circumstances this investment will take place, because this will be an investment of greater magnitude than the Bátaapáti, obviously using Hungarian, EU and other resources. Like all major investments, this can attract corruption, and unfortunately we see it as a sign in Hungary. Therefore, it is important to be very careful that when this reservoir is designed, who will do the work there and how it will be done there, and that the necessary safety standards will, of course, be implemented, but let us not go overboard there as much as we did in the case of Bátaapáti. It is best that spent fuel is returned to the seller as much as possible. If we buy it from the Russians, and we are currently buying it from the Russians for the new blocks - although the European Union is trying to modify it or to enter into a related agreement - then it should be returned to the Russians for re-roces and recycling, and, as far as possible, it should be re-created as nuclear fuel, because, of course, as in the field of other waste, we always prefer recycling over landfill. Landing, disposal, is just a final solution. The only reason why it is not appropriate to place these waste in the way we do in Bátaapáti is because we do not know where technology will develop in a few decades. We may be able to use technological solutions that can be processed safely, safely, and if we place them in such a way that no one can have access to them for centuries or thousands of years, we will deprive ourselves of using, where appropriate, spent fuel as a raw material in a technology. Of course, the current technology allows this recycling and retrocisation to a certain level, but no one can see into the future, we do not know how this will develop in ten or a hundred years. So these are the main aspects. It is clear that corruption must be avoided for these large investments, and the second is that care should be taken to ensure that these wastes may be available for recycling at a later stage. It was only about the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but there is also a research and teaching reactor in Hungary, where such waste and medical equipment are also produced, where radioactive isotopes are also used. The storage space of these is located in Bishop's Szilágyi. It is also necessary to pay attention to this waste storage facility in Győszilágy, and more attention should be paid. As I said before, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant itself functions as a temporary storage facility for such radioactive waste. Obviously, when the nuclear power plant reaches the end of its lifetime, the area of the power plant itself will become a nuclear cemetery, just as it is everywhere in the world, because the trend is that it is impossible to remove the pollutant entirely from there, so the nuclear power plant itself will become a kind of radioactive waste storage. In the case of new blocks, it is still in a 100-year perspective, because a few more years before they are built, they will start; from then on they will have 60 years of life and by the time they are removed, we will have to think in a nearly 100-year perspective when we take such a national policy and create it. To sum up, the Jobbik Hungary Movement supports the responsible attitude towards the management of radioactive waste, and because we also supported the construction of new blocks of the nuclear power plant, we took note that Hungary will produce large quantities of radioactive waste, both small and medium-activity and high-activity, for several decades. Such waste should be used with due care, and if such recovery cannot be achieved, it should be placed for final storage. There is still a discussion at EU level on what is better. Whether it is better for every country that uses radioactive isotopes or operates nuclear power plants to place and develop waste in its own territory, or if even the whole European Union is developing, say, at European level, some radioactive waste storage facilities located in areas where there are no populated settlements within hundreds of kilometres, there are no people, there is no human community at risk that could be exposed to radiation pollution in the event of an accident. There are also such areas, but this is subject to discussion as to which is the more appropriate solution. Obviously, in our view, the best solution would be to re-use them in their entirety. That doesn't work at the moment. Therefore, we must consider whether to create a storage unit at hundreds of billions of HUF, where it is very important to stress this, and only to store the high-activity waste generated in Hungary. Of course, no one intends, hopefully, to include such radioactive waste from other countries in these reservoirs to be built. As far as data disclosure is concerned - I would like to comment on this in my last minute - of course, in terms of the management and storage of radioactive waste, it is not very possible to refer to business secrets or other information that would allow for the encryption of investments in this regard. [[14.40]] We have not voted in favour of 30 years of encryption on the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, nor do we support any data disclosure restriction here. We support the fact that citizens have access to this data as widely as possible. This is also important because there is a kind of - the government can see it, as the secretary of state knows - there is uncertainty in Hungarian people about nuclear technologies, and this uncertainty is only increasing if the government takes such steps as it has done in building new blocks by encrypting information about this for 30 years. This is by no means practical, and we do not support it. This national policy, on the other hand, is a national policy for the management of radioactive waste. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-80	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-04-01-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Many things have been affected by previous speakers, and obviously our party has serious reservations about this whole legislative proposal, and I apologise to the Secretary of State, but obviously, if we do not know what we are doing, how much and how, it is very difficult to ask for support for such technical legislation. One of the darkest, most silent parts of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant expansion of the Orbán government is the solution to the final storage of radioactive waste. The government has not mentioned this at all, and now they have come up with a proposal for a resolution that does not answer the most important questions. It does not reveal what technical solution will ensure the safety of final storage, how much the storage costs, who will finance all of this, and how these costs will be reflected in the price of the electricity generated by the Paks expansion, investment and new blocks. Basically, these thoughts are the ones that best underpin our reservation, because it is impossible to see clearly in the outcome of these processes. Obviously, we do not think it is a coincidence that the government is trying to keep this a secret, because the costs can be surprisingly high in the light of international experience. The two new Paks blocks are planned to be built on a HUF 3000 billion Russian loan. A number of research says that this will be well beyond the full investment once it is completed. Compared to this, an academic background calculation puts the final storage requirement at a minimum of HUF 1600 billion, which means that this single connection investment alone increases the total cost of the investment by one and a half times and increases the total cost of the investment, without anyone telling us where this source will come from. This figure is only true if you manage to stay at all with pre-estimated costs, and there is no other additional cost, which may be unlikely. For this reason, the development of the national radioactive storage in Bátaapát, which is a significantly smaller technical challenge, for the burial of small and medium-activity waste, also cost HUF 72.5 billion by the end of 2013, while the state committed EUR 16 billion to do so. There is already experience in this, however, that if something is almost five times the price, then what should we expect there? However, it is in no way possible to save horribly expenditure. The current standards and safety reasons clearly mean that there are serious costs to be incurred here. Under the EU Directive, each Member State with a nuclear power plant should ensure the processing and storage of high-activity radioactive waste. Several Member States can solve the problem together, but the final liability for waste cannot be transferred to a third State, i.e. outside the EU. In Hungary, as shown above, there is only a final storage for small and medium-activity waste. The spent Paks fuel has been collected in a temporary storage facility in the nuclear power plant since 1998. If this goes on, temporaryism will be like the Russian troops temporarily stationed in Hungary, that we can live to see that this time will still jubilee. The final storage system would be used for the reception of spent fuel or waste remaining after their processing, partly for waste from decommissioned reactor blocks at the end of their life cycle. The funder of this problem is the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and partly the central budget. During 30 years of operation, the company has collected 240 billion forints from the company's deposits, based on our data. This is also a virtual account, and there are very serious professional doubts as to whether this money is actually available. At the same time, 240 billion is ridiculously small compared to the expected expenditure, as I suggested earlier, the 1600 billion calculation comes from the academic sector, not from a opposition workshop or anything like that. In connection with the final storage, the suitable location, geological research and preparation have been taking place for years. The location considered appropriate by experts will probably be in the Boda area in Baranya County, but the locals know little about it. This project is also affected by all-inclusive encryption in Paks cases. Obviously, it is no coincidence that there are residential forums for obtaining this information, and it is certainly not a coincidence that local governments are sneaking around to get some extra development resources, a few playgrounds, and a small spring duck that can be springed on, but obviously the risk of disposal does not compensate for the effects of this. The latest episode of this Boda process in the amendment of the nuclear law was that the radioactive waste storage area was reduced to 100 metres and that only customers in the impact area could be allowed to use the authorisation procedure. Practically everyone is excluded from the procedure, for example, the people of Pécs are concerned about what is being built in their neighbourhood and are not enthusiastic about the idea of a nuclear cemetery at all. The Fidesz government has certainly taken many blows below the belt in this whole nuclear case to the Hungarian society in the past, but this reduction to 100 meters in the case of a radiation facility of this kind is indeed a little more than a lot, and we indicated this when it was born. The normal operation of the waste storage facility would probably have a minimal environmental impact, but, for example, an accident with regard to delivery could have serious environmental requirements. Thus, it is hardly possible to maintain the view that authorisation does not concern local and local citizens who will take this risk in the first place. Hungarian taxpayers should also be significantly more informed about the size of the investment and the way in which it is financed. Risks and uncertainty are increased by the fact that there is no permanent storage for spent fuel anywhere in the world, so we do not have substantial information about realistic costs or real risks. At the same time, it seems obvious that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán intends to exempt the builder and operator of the nuclear power plant from a significant proportion of the costs of waste storage. This is demonstrated by the fact that the majority of the government voted off the LMP amendment which would have included the cost of waste management in the price of nuclear power plant equipment, as opposed to product charges, even though these costs were considered necessary in the case of solar panels, for example. If we understand correctly, this suggests that the Orbán government believes that green energy is far more dangerous than nuclear power. Only this can explain that solar cells, wind power plants and other renewable energy sources are being pushed out of the market by the most varied means, and that the atom is being used for various tax tricks. This tax policy is also contrary to common sense and environmental principles. The State should encourage green energy with minimal environmental burden through tax incentives and support, as they do in other countries of Europe and in the developed world. The use of nuclear energy which poses the most serious environmental risk should be limited and its use should be paid to consumers. Of course, in this case, the planned two new Paks blocks would never be built up, because no one would claim it if it could be based on prices containing real costs. Obviously, our party here wishes to draw attention to the fact that if we look at the full costs of achieving this, not from digging the funds, but from looking at the cost of maintaining and storing waste in the whole life cycle, it will be very easy to find out that this electricity will be very, very expensive. It is very interesting that the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development has said here that we can experience a drastic reduction in the price of solar panels worldwide, in Hungarian, the cost of energy obtained and obtained on a unit of forintary is reduced in the case of renewable energy sources, while in the case of nuclear energy we see an opposite process. After all, we see a continuous increase in costs in order to exclude environmental standards and human and health risks. The production of energy from renewable energy is decreasing, nuclear energy is obviously increasing, the costs of storage prove this, but the Hungarian government is taking the country in this strategic direction for the next century, unfortunately. It is very difficult to make a worthwhile and responsible decision by establishing what we do not know about the policy of radioactive waste management. After all, the government does not tell us what kind of investment comes from this policy that it is about to adopt. We don't know what we want to build; we don't know exactly where; we don't know how much; we don't know whose money; we don't know most of it, but the government doesn't even want to know how the locals feel about it. [[14.50]] In addition to the above, the text contains a number of contradictions, e.g. requiring that the costs of handling spent fuel and radioactive waste should be borne by the person who produces these substances. At the same time, it does not in any way ensure that the nuclear power plant actually covers all the costs of waste management, and we are actually seeing processes that are contrary to that, and obviously the previous encryptions provide us with an opportunity not to know how this is going to happen. Furthermore, it does not require the nuclear power plant to take out liability insurance, as we know at present, to cover damage control in the event of potential accidents in waste management. Obviously, I am not referring to the possible nuclear accident in the nuclear power plant, but to the possible damage caused by the transport of spent fuel. It is therefore highly likely that, in the end, it will not be the polluter, the nuclear power plant, but the taxpayer, which is not only contrary to environmental principles and the principle of justice, but also violates the relevant laws, in our opinion, and does not provide the task that the European Union conventions would pass on to Hungary in this respect because of these activities. Obviously, the position of the May Other Politics is that, as well as the previous proposals on nuclear energy, this proposal proves that nuclear energy should not be launched for the country, we should examine its possibilities to withdraw from its implementation, since not only the establishment of a nuclear power plant is an unreasonable and non-practical solution to the management of our energy problems, but, obviously, the implementation of environmental and human-health requirements related to waste management activities is also a task that the government is not prepared to do, and it is not yet aware of the burden it will impose on Hungarian taxpayers. As a representative of the May Other Politics, I would like to ask the representative of the government to withdraw the motion as far as possible, to put an end to the efforts to develop a nuclear power plant and to move on to Europe's path of green energy, rethinking Hungary's energy strategy. That is what we would ask with respect if there was a solution. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-82	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes as a pre-registered speaker.
u2015-04-01-83	Thank you very much for the floor. The proposal highlights precisely the principle of the public that Fidesz is treading with 30 years of encryption of Paks expansion data. And I would now quote literally from this resolution: "The key issue of the use of nuclear energy is the acquisition and continued maintenance of the public's trust and support. You know, that's exactly what 30-year-old encryption can do to get rid of it. Not only have they been unable to reassure the public and the people about this issue in recent years, but they also do not reassure professionals. Because when you're at home, even professionals say that encryption is what they can't agree with, because they've done their job transparently and transparently, they're doing everything they've done in the business, and by now encrypting everything about this thing, they're starting the same mistrust in people that hasn't been around Paks and Paks. The fact that they only want to hold public hearings is a very cute question, because even when the Bátaapát storage was built, a referendum was issued. It was also written by the MSZP government, because it thought that trust in Bátaapáti was the primary issue, that the people living there should trust the containers, that it would not be a problem for them. This referendum was issued in 2005, where, with 75% participation, Bátaapáti accepted with 90.7 percent support to build the storage unit. The question is, really, that all you want is confidence in everything, and all you want is appearance information and publicity, or you want to convince people about it. It is a very, very sweet and interesting question that, now that environmental licensing has started in connection with Paks II, and public hearings have started there in 41 settlements, Attila Aszódi is saying the sentences that we have been demanding on the government for five years now, that we need suitable professionals for new jobs and that we will have to place professionals and their families in the construction process, and they will have to provide health services, education services, food supply, and public security not only in Paks, but also on the surrounding settlements and on the other side of the Danube. The problem is, the MSZP has been demanding this on you for five years. If they were a bit serious about this question, and if they were going to go a bit seriously to the point where they really want to go through with it, then there is not only enlargement, but also the area needs to be prepared, entrepreneurs need to be prepared, and the insolence when you get the answer when you ask if there will be Pakson's college training, whether there will be a Pakson in the vocational school to raise the number, start majors, then the answer is to plan it. Well, you were supposed to start this job five years ago. We shouldn't be planning, but if you're serious about this, we should have taken action. Paks and its surroundings have long surveyed the number of locksmiths in the surrounding settlements, the number of accommodations, the number of turning benches in the 200 settlements in the area, from which Paks can be reached within 30 minutes. You, as we see, are not using these materials very much, are not very much concerned with this issue, it really is just an economic issue for you today, and it really is your fear of the profession now, and your bad feeling is that it is not enough that you do not really ask the profession or those who have worked in it for the last 30 years, but that you do not take them seriously. The fact that Viktor Orbán has not been in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant since the signing of the treaty is a very meaningful fact. I think it would be his responsibility to go down and talk to the profession and professionals. But it doesn't matter to him, because ever since they lost Paks in the municipal elections, Paks hasn't been important to you. Multi-insured Babafather. I think that's what's good about nuclear power, and everything's fine about waste storage, too, if there's multiple insurance. You can't exaggerate. The only thing in this is that it works well. And multiple insurance is necessary in every respect. You really should be open to talking to people, that if you have your arguments, you have your professionally prepared materials, you have everything you need to do - you need to have it, because the previous government has prepared a lot for you - then you have to sit down with people, you have to look at them, and you have to try to convince them. That's exactly what they don't do with encryption. They're encrypting everything that's going on with Paks. I hope they're not trying to find out that someday when there's a change of government, and by then, they'll have spent a lot of money on licensing, environmental licensing and all that, and then it really doesn't matter what's gonna come out, because they can be sure that I think anyone will be on the government, this encryption will be lifted, for the sake of the profession, for the sake of Paks, for the sake of people's trust. Because trust in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and nuclear power has deteriorated, which is the only reason they've had in the past. The fact that they do not trust the knowledge of Paks in Hungary is only thanks to you, but these professionals deserve great trust, because they have a professional knowledge that is nowhere else to be found. That is why I ask you to reconsider this question, to trust the common sense of the people, and to trust that a referendum can be held on these issues. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-84	In two minutes' time, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-04-01-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State that if he feels that I have said anything that might not reflect reality, then he should be involved in the debate, so that we can respond to it, we can defend our position, because obviously, after closing time, when one can no longer speak back, it is much more difficult to respond to it. After the Prime Minister is free, I always ask the Secretary of State to be a man, to participate in the debate, then we can react and engage in dialogue. That's all I wanted. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-86	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Aradski. [[15.00]]
u2015-04-01-87	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr President, for indicating that you are unable to attend the rest of the debate, you are leaving, because I understand you are an understudy and you have spoken for others. With this information, I cannot tell you not to lie, Congressman, because you have used other words, you have communicated other sentences and what you have to say to us. I am thinking, Mr President, that Members of the LMP are, at least on a regular basis, slipping on certain issues. I don't want to tell you what's going on with the encryption, because you're not alone with that, but the fact that we've reduced the impact area to 100 meters, for example, is not true. The legislation said that the designer should establish an impact area of at least 100 metres. However, this impact area may be any size if it is technically justified, which will otherwise be assessed by the Authority. We didn't reduce it, but set the minimum if you think we've raised the minimum to 100 meters. I would very much ask you to quote the legislative provisions correctly at other times and not mislead the voters. Does the Paks Nuclear Power Plant not contribute to the cost of waste storage? I report that the largest contributor to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund is Paks, who regularly pays tens of billions of forints for this purpose. Why do you say such things, Congressman? Why does LMP accept that if its political interests so require, it will go against the truth? Answer that. In the rest, we can have a professional debate, but it's hard to understand when you twist the facts, you lie, and you don't tell the truth. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-01-88	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-04-01-89	Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his fairness in giving his opinion in debate and not in closing. He drew attention to two data that he thought was wrong or felt about the text I said. First of all, how Paks is involved. As I said, my statement is not that he does not participate at all, but that I claim that academic studies are about 1600 billion. On the other hand, you said in your reaction that Paks was paying ten billion dollars to this fund. What was my statement? The fact that we know 240 billion is virtually available at all. [[Dr. András Aradszki: You said he wouldn't contribute.]] We don't know how much. What we do know is that people with high competences who do this and are independent say 1,600 billion in scale. It's not enough to pay ten billion. The reference was that the Paks deposit was not enough to handle it - once. Secondly, I apologize if I'm not being literal. The area of impact of 100 metres does not provide any guarantee to the enforcement authority that it must require more than that. What kind of expert and what you will say, I obviously thanked you for your correctness by indicating that I should go, because of course I could look into it, and here is the 1996 CXVI. If I could open my phone, I'd say the exact place of law that says that. No legal obligation requires anyone above 100 metres of impact to require that any environmental or social impact be assessed. There is no legal guarantee for this. If you claim that this is your goal and you want to take into account, let's say, in the case of Boda, the opinion of the Pécs, then these restrictions should not be included, then obviously, there could be security systems. The fact that there is a legal option does not guarantee that it will be implemented. Mr Secretary of State must understand our reasoning. Forgive us, as opposition politicians, you cannot expect us to trust government agencies with their expertise and objectivity that they will take advantage of this opportunity. We want assurances. Forgive us, we are oppositionists, we do not trust the government, and we want the safeguards to be incorporated into the legislation in the legislative process, and this speech was about the lack of integration. I think both of our positions can be defended, because 1600 billion for which we have information is not available anywhere. Tell me in your answer where this money is. If you tell me that Paks has a separate account and you show me the account statement, I promise you, I won't say that again about this. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-90	I now give the floor to Secretary of State András Aradszki.
u2015-04-01-91	It is really difficult to argue that the minimum level was not set in the previous regulation, and we are now setting the minimum impact area to at least 100 metres. I don't know, Congressman, if zero is more, higher value or 100 meters. I'm sure you'll think deeply about it, and maybe you'll get a good result. The other thing is this 1600 billion forints. This is the expected decontaminated value. His present value - he also conceals this in a very elegant manner or is not properly informed - is not little, but it is only HUF 650 billion. If we look into the amount of KNPA that we have now, it revolves around more than 270 billion, and if we look at the fact that it is expected to be the final need in 50 years at the latest, and there are 50 years to build this final storage unit in the right place, then you can see that, given the 50-year perspective and present value today, the amount will be available, which, in particular, will be covered by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, 80-90 percent. I won't ask you to speak again. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-04-01-92	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-04-01-93	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. Then tell me where 650 billion is available or what estimate will be available in 50 years if you now have a total of 240 billion in 30 years. Then tell me how it's possible that if you go back to 30... - so obviously we just want to see that you have the assurance. At the same time, I welcome it as a professional if you tell me where you can have an international positive experience in achieving this, where you have done it for so much and it works. Give us one example to reassure us. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-94	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki, to say the closing word.
u2015-04-01-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is a saying that Sallai R. Benedek has gone, but I will tell you in private what my father said about this situation. [[Sallai R. Benedict: I'm here!]] He doesn't belong in front of the House. But I'm gonna be a man, and I'm gonna tell you. Returning to the speech and to the presentation, I consider it very important that no one in itself had any objections to the professional content of this material, I see. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant's usual aversions related to the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant were told by everyone. This is not the subject of the proposal, but what radioactive waste management policy the country intends to pursue in the coming years and decades. This has a very important principle, which has always been forgotten by the speakers, perhaps Mr Pál Völner felt the importance of this, namely that there is one principle of politics: consider progress. What we have here is a snapshot, given our current knowledge, current scientific knowledge, current nuclear power plant capacities, waste management issues, radioactive waste generation volumes, we can think about this policy. This policy is counting on the final solution, in the sense that it is counting on recycling and the use of the open fuel cycle, i.e. the final deep geological placement. When this will take place depends on the scientific results, the technical solutions for the next 40-50-60 years, on how high-activity radioactive waste, spent fuel cartridges can be placed, recycled and used for other purposes. That is why we need to think ahead and prepare and prepare a deep geological storage, in line with EU standards, with a final solution. I said that I should, and that was a bit of a slip, because I'm not sure that, according to our current knowledge, this deep geological storage is going to take place in Bodan. From this early point of view, asking the people there. This is currently in the research phase. It is researched by the competent body whether the type of rock found in Bodan is truly suitable for the requirements of deep geological storages, can provide the placement with adequate security. [[15.10]] I understand what you have to say, Mr Lajos Kepli, that politics and today's practice are too cautious in relation to spent waste and radioactive waste. What I can say from the government, Mr President, is that we will not give in to this, and I would like to say that, in this regard, what you have said about such corruption is that, if I look at it correctly, there is some experience in the faction that falls to the right. But I believe that, in order to ensure the safety of Hungarian citizens, we must strive to ensure that this sense of security, as regards the operation of the nuclear power plant and the disposal of spent radioactive fuel and other radioactive waste, remains of professional credibility, without undermining it. I've responded to Congressman Sallai Benedek's things. All I have to say is that I respect them very much, but I wrote to myself here that it is very difficult to fight for the use of renewables with a series of false claims. Discredits their purpose, discredits their assets. Reply from Anita Beringes. Well, I am a very patient man, and I will tell everyone once again: the Hungarian Parliament did not encrypt the documents of the investment in the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant by adopting the Paks II Act. What you've been encrypting for 30 years is technical data that would pose a national security risk or violate the right to intellectual creation. These are the encryptions of the law, and I underline as lex specialis, starting from the provisions of the applicable data protection law. Before I came to this debate in Parliament, I looked at how the so-called large public demand for Finnish investment would be implemented in Finland. I report: there is nothing more public information in Finland about nuclear power plant investment than the residents have today and the Hungarian citizens have. With regard to the hearing of citizens, I would like to say that Paks II. In the context of its capacity expansion, a public hearing is currently taking place in 41 settlements, not approximately, exactly 41 settlements, where detailed information is provided on the project on the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant, its effects, its environmental and other social policy and sociological possibilities. Anita Heringes said it was insolence - what did she say? - Something about being a college doesn't mean we're gonna tell Pakson what's gonna happen as a result of the development. Congresswoman! That's a weird approach, because if I look at your speeches in Parliament, if it's up to you, there'll be nothing there. You do not support the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. [[Anita Heringes: I support Paks, I support professionals and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant.]] I have not yet stood up in this House to ask you, I, Anita Heringes, MSZP Member, fully support the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant as soon as possible. Not once! He has never once said, he has always criticized what we have done in this case, but you have never once stood up to the fact that he is opposed to the line of his party, supporting capacity expansion. I believe that, along with the conclusion of these political issues, there is a very forward-looking material, giving the government a great deal of leeway on how to ensure the management and disposal of radioactive waste, taking into account the possibilities of future changes, and that is why I propose to Parliament that it adopt the proposal for a resolution at a later stage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-01-96	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congresswoman Márta Demeter applied for a speech after today's agenda:. When will the truth be revealed? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-01-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We need to talk again about the question of helicopter procurement. This is the topic in which the government has done nothing in the last five years to resolve the deficiency that the situation may arise in a very short time that they will not be able to take off the transport helicopters of the Hungarian Defence Agency, and there is no justification for their inaction over the last five years. Let's see how this happened. When you were still in opposition, you knew very well when the delivery helicopters of the Hungarian Defence Corps would expire, yet, after they came to the government, you did nothing to resolve this situation. There has been a consultation in May 2013, I would add, quite rightly, this was a beacon of hope for those who are seriously concerned about the security of the country that these military instruments can provide alone. At this meeting, there was a complete consensus that the ability of the military to transport helicopters must be preserved, this is necessary for the safety of the country, and that this task will not, by the way, tolerate any delay. But nothing happened. In the spring of 2014, the change of government or the establishment of a new government, after the elections, was promised that the new government would issue a helicopter tender, so that all professional preparatory work could be carried out. Well, that didn't happen either. However, a very interesting thing happened: just a few days before the elections, three Mi-8 T transport helicopters arrived in Kecskemét. These are the helicopters acquired by the Ministry of Defence in such a way that the public was completely excluded. These helicopters, acquired by purchasing them with military procurement rules for military technical equipment, were previously registered as civil aircraft, and subsequently received military painting only in Hungary. We also see in this example what it is like when the government acquires something and makes some kind of acquisition - of course, the exclusion of the public is always achieved. We do not need to go far, we can also look at the first Orbán government, how the acquisition of the Gripenek was carried out, that Viktor Orbán swept aside the professional preparatory work that has been going on for years with a single gesture, and pointed out a solution based on individual considerations, on inexplicable criteria. The question is how the increasingly urgent and now non-deferential helicopter tenders and helicopter purchases will be implemented. Is it going to be like the Gripen acquisition? Or will it happen the way three helicopters were purchased a few days before the election? Here we see that there is grave silence on the subject, sometimes when the political interest of the government so requires, only at the level of communication, then we can sometimes find in the online platforms and in the daily press a little bit of news that the government is already planning to buy, it will require 172 billion forints, and 30 helicopters are expected to be purchased. When they feel that it is timely at the political level of communication, they are throwing in the news about it, yet there is no real progress. Orbán said that the subject had already been before the government three times, while Csaba Hende said that even the administrative consultation on helicopters had not been completed. So the question is, when will this issue finally be resolved for Hungary's safety. The question is whether they can guarantee the legal guarantees, the enforcement of these, how the decision will be made. [[15.20]] We expect, and the government's well-conceived interest is that public procurement should take place, a public tender should be launched, one that will ensure real competition in order to create a solution that will best serve the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. So the question is, when will the truth come out? And with regard to the history, the question is, is it possible that you already have your helicopter applicant? Thank you very much.
u2015-04-01-98	Mr Lajos Kepli also spoke after the agenda: the spring wind is pouring water - the decade-long current problems of domestic water management. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-01-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In March 22, around World Water Day, it is always worth remembering what domestic water management is, the problems of the domestic water management sector have been going on for years or decades. I gave this title to my speech after the agenda because, especially in the spring and early summer, when floods tend to descend on domestic rivers, why we do not move forward on water management issues year after year or decade after decade, why we are still there to talk about water management when there is a problem when there is a flood. Then everyone will talk about water management for weeks on the defensive, and then we will forget about the subject, and we will keep the damage caused by the damage caused by the flood. Water management should mean a lot more than that. Not only the water draining from the Carpathian Basin as soon as possible, but also the opposite, the retention of water should finally be on the agenda of Hungarian water affairs and Hungarian water management. However, how could the sector that has hurt the previous and current Orbán governments in particular be on the agenda, but also the previous governments, since the change of regime, Hungarian water management and the Hungarian water sector have been building only downhill. Hungarian water experts are fewer and fewer, even though Hungarian water experts are world-famous and talented, they worked on various water projects worldwide, even before the regime change, dozens of Hungarian water engineers. There have been very good water management systems and systems in Hungary for centuries as well. In recent decades, it has been possible that there really is no concept in the field of water management, but when there is drought and we need precipitation, we need water, we just stand apart with hands that it does not rain, we cannot get water to agricultural areas. This would only be a question of a comprehensive water management strategy, since the once existing irrigation ditches and drainage ditches have since been plowed, buried, Hungary's water management system destroyed and destroyed, even though it could be a paradise in the Carpathian Basin, because in extremely rich waters, which is what we are now most likely to see as floods or inland waters sometimes passing through, and then there is water in the agricultural areas, and sometimes the ground cracks, because there has been such a drought in the Carpathian Basin for weeks that there is nothing we can do about it. If we could keep and store these waters during the fall of large waters, then obviously we would be facing a completely different situation in the summer, whether in terms of irrigation of agricultural land or in terms of shipping, because shipping in domestic rivers is an eternal problem in the drought period, how many ships or barges at low water levels will stumble on the Danube at different forecast points, where the water is low, and the barges on the bottom, on the cliffs, the boats. Of course, this does not strengthen tourism in Hungary. Today we have talked about how many tourists come to our country on a boat. And there are many other reasons why water management in Hungary should finally be moved towards water retention. There are differences between different parties and factions as to whether this should be done through a barrier, by restoring the level of management or by other means. But we should sit at the table, engage in dialogue, and finally take action, because what is at the moment - this is the same opinion - is not good, because we suffer enormous damage from time to time following the fall of the flood waves, and we also suffer enormous damage from time to time due to drought in agriculture, with huge losses in production, even though we are supposed to be among the water-rich countries. At least in terms of the amount of water going through our rivers, we could be the richest country, our drinking water, thank God, in large quantities and in good quality, until we destroy it, but without a comprehensive water management concept, I can stand up in the Hungarian Parliament for years if we do not do something about the flood coming again, and we have to deal with the damage relief again, or the drought will come again for a few weeks afterwards, and we may have another headache about how much more the bread will cost because of the crop loss. That's what we should be thinking about together. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-01-100	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank my fellow Members for their work and wish Easter holidays a pleasant time. I wish men a lot of red eggs, and women a lot of sprinklers. The Parliament will continue its work next Tuesday at 11 a.m. The meeting's closed. [[Meeting ended at 15:26 p.m.]]
