u2015-11-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, This weekend, we were shocked to learn about the recent and most serious acts of terrorism in Paris. In Paris, European civilization was attacked barbaricly, with no justification. We can't let any violence intimidate us. Hungary wants a Europe that can protect the lives, values and interests of European citizens in all circumstances. The Hungarian people sympathize with the relatives and the entire French people. I ask the Parliament to express our condolences with silent standing and to pay tribute to the victims' memories. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you. Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked for a speech before the agenda today: Europe was under attack. I'll give the floor to Prime Minister.
u2015-11-16-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Our first word of condolence is still today, and I also convey the condolences of the Hungarians and Hungary to France and the French people, and we feel for them, and we stand by them in trouble. Dear House, The European Union has been attacked and we are also in danger. According to François Hollande, an esteemed president of the French Republic, what happened was an act of war. If that is so - and it is so - then we should know that not only France and the French people are at war. France is a member of the European Union. From this point of view, the European Union has been attacked in Paris; we are members, so this is our case. What happened on Friday night can happen in other places across Europe. We're not safe either. It is time for the leading politicians of the European Union to realize and understand what is at stake. Let us ask the simple question: What is more humane? So far, we Hungarians have been trying to close the border before the flood from the Middle East and Africa. We've got ourselves a feeling it's not humane. But here's the question: what is more humane? Close the borders to illegal offenders or risk the lives of innocent European citizens? The right to life precedes all other rights, just as the right to self-defense is stronger than anything else. We cannot put European citizens at risk for life because of any ideology or economic interest. Either way, we see the Union drifting; weak, insecure and paralyzed. There's a meeting and a conference, but there's no solutions. We are in a web of ideologies instead of acting on the basis of common sense and our own cultural traditions. To date, the leaders of many European countries are thinking about how to manage the delivery and reception of immigrants instead of taking practical steps together to stop the flood. In Brussels, they still claim that immigration is a good thing, while we are getting new evidence from day to day that immigration is a bad thing. It's not a win-win, it's a mutual winner, it's a loser, it's a loser. Dear House, We feel that Europe is at stake. Brussels, however, sends bad messages, new and new invitations to migrants, rather than sending them a message in a firm and honest manner, that it is not what they expect them to be waiting for. Dear House, We have repeatedly warned the leaders of the European Union not to invite these people into Europe. Anyone who thought of the possible consequences of unlimited population migration with common sense could be aware of the dangers of an illegal, uncontrolled influx of people at our borders. European and US security professionals, secret service, intelligence chiefs and police leaders have constantly warned Europe of the increase in the terrorist threat. All politicians, all the leaders of Europe, knew about the danger. And the Greeks told us a long time ago, even at the beginning of the summer, the arrival of jihadists with the migrant crowd cannot be ruled out at all. Looking at the ground of common sense, it was clear: quite simply, we must not allow masses in unchecked, hundreds of thousands of people from whom we do not know exactly where they come from, we do not know who they are, and we do not know what they want, moreover, this House, from areas where the European states are carrying out military actions. This has never happened before: we allow in and even transport hundreds of thousands of people from areas with which the European Union is at war. It has been proven that terrorists consciously and well organizedly use migration to blend in with the crowds of people leaving their homes in search of a better life. We don't think everyone who comes from there is a terrorist. But we don't know, no one can tell us how many terrorists have arrived among the migrants so far, how many people are here, and how many more arrive every day. There's a lot of terrorists. It's hard to imagine how many terrorists have passed through our country. It's time to end this all over Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear to all sober-minded people that Europe cannot take so many people. We all know that the European economy cannot cope with such a burden, but, in addition to financial and economic realities, migration poses three serious threats that are sufficient to reduce the flow of people individually. [[13.20]] First of all, Friday night we experienced that migration is an exponentially increasing terrorist threat, and now it is not a terrorist threat, but a fact, or a real terror. Secondly, migration increases the risk of crime. It is not a PC, it is politically correct to talk about it; indeed, the Western world openly denies these facts, but it is still a fact: where there are many immigrants in Europe, crime has increased significantly and public safety has deteriorated, more theft, robbery, abuse, aggravated assault, rape and homicide. If we don't talk about it, they'll still be facts. Thirdly, the mass introduction of people from other continents and other cultures poses a threat to our culture, our way of life, our customs and our traditions. Now, even those who have been delusional about multiculturalism, and wanted to force this delusion on us, can see where it all leads. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the light of what has happened, we must also address the issue of compulsory resettlement quotas. We are still saying that somewhere outside Hungary they want to tell us who we Hungarians should live with, that is what this quota is about. I propose to this House that we continue to ignore it, insist that we continue to decide for ourselves who we want to let in, who we want to live with. The mandatory resettlement quota is simply not Europe, it is in sharp contrast with the European spirit. It is pointless because it does not solve the crisis, but exacerbates the crisis. It is clear that the compulsory resettlement quota does not keep it away, but rather is an invitation to migrants. The pressure will not be reduced, but increased, and European countries will restore their borders within the EU due to the rapid increase in pressure. If this continues, it is only a matter of time before the Schengen system and free movement are over. The mandatory quota, my fellow Members, is also unlawful, as European leaders have no power to make such a decision on this issue; they have no power to force any Member State to take measures on refugees or immigration that the country does not want. In the light of the terrorist attack, Brussels cannot now dispute the right of the Member States to defend themselves, because the mandatory resettlement quota is dangerous because it would spread terrorism across Europe. Dear House, Mr President, Facts and tragic events show that a new European policy is needed, not enough to untie and fix the old one. I suggest we push the dogma aside, forget political correctness, speak straight and clear. I propose that we return from the world of ideologies to common sense and rethink European policy on the basis of four self-evident commandments. Firstly, we must protect the European Union's external borders, because security begins with the protection of borders. Secondly, we must protect our culture, because Europe's essence is its intellectual and cultural identity. Thirdly, we must defend our economic interests, because we Europeans must remain at the centre of the world economy. Fourthly, people must be given the right to influence European decisions, because the Union must be democratic. Ladies and gentlemen, European citizens didn't want hundreds of thousands of aliens to attack our countries illegally crossing our borders. Such a policy has never been given a mandate or permission to anyone anywhere. People want to live safely and enjoy the benefits of the Union, and it is our job, as Members of Parliament and governments all over Europe, to hear people's voices. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-2	Thank you for the Prime Minister's speech. I will ask the political groups whether they wish to respond to the Prime Minister's speech, which, after not exceeding twenty minutes, can therefore take place within a maximum of five minutes. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, In addition to expressing grief and compassion in France, those who have suffered in recent weeks also from vicious, vile acts of terror, I am thinking of the terrorist acts in Beirut, Baghdad or the attack on the Russian aircraft. We feel for France, but let us be clear: it is a global crisis, it is suffering by the European Union, but it is also suffering by countries that, among other things, issue refugees. Yes, Europe must be protected, but you have promised to protect the European Union, and this has failed. The work that Hungary was supposed to do was not done in the critical months. Mr. Prime Minister, Listening to you here, we probably agree that not everyone has fled, and not everyone is a terrorist, in the crowd of 400,000 who passed through Hungary. That is why I think that we should be more careful about who is spreading the terrorist risk, and what has not happened in recent months is that the European Union is able to distinguish between actual refugees, economic immigrants and terrorists. This is precisely the task that the bodies and Member States of the European Union have not been able to carry out. In this situation, the first is that the European Union does not, by chance, enter into a spiral of hatred that creates a spiral of violence. Yes, we must protect the European Union, and that is precisely why we need common solutions. When we called for common solutions in recent months, this was not some kind of generous Euroblah. Prime Minister, if there is no effective anti-terror cooperation within the European Union, there is no sharing of information between European secret services on a daily basis under joint command, Hungary will also be defenceless. For example, in January we put a proposal on Parliament's table to adapt the criminal code so that Hungary can participate effectively in a European-level cooperation on internal security and counter-terrorism. [[13.30]] We must therefore also see that this is not about the fact that there is not enough money in the European Union for wire fences and armed protection to protect common borders, but it is simply about the lack of political will for the European Union to decide: but those who have already entered the territory of the European Union, one way or another, what happens to them. Hungary is also responsible for this. We are also responsible if there is no trace of a flood of masses who have come in and deserve different status under the law of the European Union. Therefore, Hungary has a responsibility to ensure that the Schengen system does not fall apart. We have a responsibility to give the European Union the necessary support to the neighbouring and transit states to have a uniform treatment of asylum applications lodged outside the European Union and, where appropriate, to have an increased surveillance of aliens within Schengen. The Hungarian interest is that there should be an increased cooperation on internal security in Europe, so that the traceability of dangerous groups can be achieved at European level, and that the daily cooperation of the Union's secret services should work. Mr. Prime Minister, Information is needed to protect Hungarian people, but this information can be obtained through enhanced EU internal security cooperation. We need a common European procedure to replace Dublin, precisely so that Schengen does not fall for it, we need common European institutions and common European diplomatic steps. Yes, there is also a need for joint diplomatic action because it is true that a 21st century is a reality. The 20th century global crisis appears to be XX. It cannot be dealt with on the basis of international legal standards of the 20th century. However, Hungary cannot raise this question alone. Mr. Prime Minister, The fact is that if there is no common European solution, Hungary will be in a lack of information, the Hungarian services will be in a lack of information, and Hungary will also have to face deportation. And there is no reason to keep talking about root problems here: until root problems are dealt with, there is a world order where profit is better than man, while global large companies are interested in robbing the natural resources and cheap labour of Asian and African countries, there will be no reassuring solution for Europe. The question may also be raised as to who will rebuild Syria, who will rebuild the states from which refugees will start. I think that Hungary and the European Union have a serious responsibility in this. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-4	I'd like the people in the box to refrain from expressing their sympathy. I give the floor to Gábor Vona, leader of the faction.
u2015-11-16-5	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, Allow me to express my condolences first on behalf of Jobbik to the relatives of the deceased and to France. However, in moments of mourning, we can no longer care only about grief, but we must also seek a way out, which is what the present situation obliges us to do. I think the first thing we have to say here in Hungary as Hungarian MP is that this is not a party political issue, but a national issue. In other words, we are also examining here, parliamentary factions, whether we are able to put aside our differences in party politics, our interests, or whether such a disaster is pushing us even further apart. It can be said that what happened on 13 November is the beginning of a new era for Europe, including Hungary, and there are many questions about this, not only security policy issues, but also questions about the future and fate of Europe as a whole, which we will discuss a great deal more in the medium term and even in the long term. Think of the concept of a one-speed or multi-speed Europe, or think about the debate of the Europe of Nations versus the United States of Europe, or think about whether it is possible to build democracy, a welfare state, a competitive economy and a Christian culture circle in Europe at the same time. These are very painful, very difficult questions, and, as I said, we will continue to discuss them in the long term. But I think today's task is to focus on the short-term and acute problems ahead of us, and in this matter we should try to make statements that are correct and try to outline a way out for Hungary and Europe that is feasible and sober. The first sentence, which I believe must be said and shown clearly to society, is the failure of the stupid immigration policy conducted by Brussels and Berlin, which sets common sense and pragmatic considerations in the background. This immigration policy has failed, and with it the left-wing policy of the Balliberal parties, which has constantly supported it, has failed. This must be said, and it must also confront Hungarian society and the society of the European Union, and these political forces must be told that there has been enough of the policy that has put Europe in such a situation. Of course, knowing and reading the press of left-wing Balliberal parties, it is good to prepare ourselves for the question or the dilemma of how immigration can be mentioned on the same page as terrorism. I think there are two sentences here that need to be considered and understood. The first sentence is that immigrants are not terrorists. This sentence must be written, said and understood. But there is also another sentence that needs to be written down, said and understood, and that is that terrorists are immigrants. This sentence must also be understood, because those who cannot understand both sentences in connection with each other will not be able to lead Europe and Hungary out of the current situation. Immigrants are not terrorists, but terrorists are immigrants. I think that's the basis for debate that you can come up with. I think that it will be very difficult to have a constructive and meaningful debate in the future with someone who cannot see these two. And if we accept this and say it, then the next sentence follows, namely that if Hungary is to be protected from terrorism - and I think that this is beyond discussion, I think we all agree that Hungary must be protected from terrorism - so those who want to protect Hungary from terrorism must protect Hungary from immigration. That is the case at the moment, and I think that this too must be above debate. And those who want to protect Hungary from immigration must face both the issue of quotas and the danger of repatriation. These two things need to be dealt with in an acute way at the moment, which must be prevented, the compulsory quota system. I note here only in parentheses, Prime Minister, that I think that the cosmetic version of the quota system proposed by Fidesz, the world quota, is not a solution either, because the arguments you have said can be made about the world quota, although, I add, it is, of course, fairer than the mandatory European quota, but it is not a good solution, and I think that it is also worth forgetting. I started by saying that party political interests should be set aside. When, last week, on behalf of Fidesz, Mr Lajos Kósa proposed a signature collection against the quota system, we set aside our party policy interests and indicated our support for this proposal. But it also has to be noticed that since Friday, November 13, time, history has gone beyond this collection of signatures. A much stronger instrument is needed in order for Hungary to express its own interests and send a message to Brussels. Jobbik, of course, also supports the appeal to the court, but it can only be a decisive referendum that really sends Hungary's opinion. The necessary constitutional framework must be established, and Jobbik submitted its proposal on this matter last week. I ask Prime Minister and Fidesz to support the possibility of a decisive referendum, so that the current Hungarian government can indeed be authorized by Hungarian society to do nothing about quota or return to Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-6	I now give the floor to the Christian Democratic People's Party representative, Deputy Group Leader Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We Christian Democrats were shocked to hear about the terrorist attack on Paris on 13 November 2015 against the peace of all mankind, which we strongly condemn. We are all upset by this raging manifestation of violence and hatred. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, we express our sympathy, sharing the pain of the victims' relatives and the entire French nation. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, Each generation has its own cross and responsibility. Who becomes a hero and who remains a coward decides who takes the cross on his shoulders and who doesn't. Today, too, we have a challenge: either we take the cross or we take it, and then our grandchildren will have the right to say that we were cowards. The Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian government, together with the millions of Hungarians, took up the cross, because our instincts work well. For us, freedom is not self-evident, it is not an inheritance from our parents. [[13.40]] All Hungarian generations had to fight for freedom over and over again from one lifetime to another, and they had to protect the country. Today, Europe's security, culture and faith are threatened by a threat that is more dangerous than almost all the forces we have ever had. Today, the most intensive migration of the world's history and the organised occupation of Europe is taking place. Millions march towards Europe from the east and the south. Today we also know that in addition to the real persecuted, there are immigrants, criminals, soldiers, and even terrorists. Many of them are driven by European life, money, others by conquest, hatred, and desire to destroy. Mr. Prime Minister, We Christian Democrats ask you and your government to do what you have done, to protect Hungary and the Hungarians, because the stakes are no less than the survival of European civilisation and culture. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-8	I now give the floor to the head of the MSZP group, József Tobias. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-16-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, With grief and shock, we pay tribute to the family members of the victims, with compassion for what happened last Friday in Paris, and foretelling a future in which it would be a fundamental issue for us to think together. Mantras that are about putting party politics aside, and then wanting to pursue a very extreme, fear-fearing policy, I have nothing to do with that. If we really want to put it aside, we need to talk about what's real today. And the reality is that today, a sober majority in Europe knows that no fence could have stopped the terrorists in Paris. A sound majority in Europe knows precisely that those who try to hysterize public life in such a situation seek to forge their political capital, all in the light of the events, to support the terrorist's goals. The common sense in Europe knows precisely that terrorists are responsible for terrorism. We condemn any initiative that we have heard in the walls of this House, which wants to make someone else responsible, taking into account party policy considerations. Prime Minister! I'm shocked by you. I was shocked to hear you speak of this fear, not a strong Europe, not a Europe that wishes to be united, but precisely the contagion of fear and the tension against which we should be determined. Europe cannot remain in debt after Friday. You can't remain in debt, just like you couldn't do after London or Madrid. A strong, proportionate and effective response is needed. The common Europe, and I have no debate with the Prime Minister, in cultural, economic, social or democratic terms, can't allow us to be locked up, so that we can't go to a sports match, so that someone can't take their child to a soccer game just because of fear. If there is fear, then we must always hold on to each other, create a common strength. The common strength, as it has been in the last eight months, would have been at the disposal of Europe. Europe may be slow. But Europe now has an intention to unite, Prime Minister. And he needs you, too, and not the way we've been constantly deciding between the walls of this House for the past eight months why people aren't doing something right. Let's turn him over. Let the Hungarian government take the initiative! [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Let the Hungarian Parliament take the initiative to protect Europe's values on the side of democracy, to protect our societies, to protect the security of Hungarian citizens in it, to protect its economy, and to protect it from what is most important, from what the foundations of what were laid in Paris at the time, freedom, brotherhood and justice. I'm convinced... [[Interviews from Fidesz: Equality.]] Yeah, I'd be glad to be reminded of him now, thank you. Too bad they don't practice. Finally, I would like to make two proposals, Prime Minister. The first is that if we want a common solution, if we really want a common solution, then we really should have a common border police! Then accept the proposal to create a common force in Europe. And accept or initiate the Hungarian government to become a joint European intelligence agency to coordinate the work of the sovereign secret services in the nation states. 'Cause it's obvious we need this move. As needed, and I do not hear the Prime Minister stand up to Dublin III, either in Malta or in Brussels. It's for her. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] It is important, Prime Minister, not only to show what the problem is, but to shape that world in an active way so that Europe is protected [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to come out of the crisis that you're in today. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-10	I now give the floor to the leader of the Fidesz Group, Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-11	Mr. President. Prime Minister! Dear House, The first word is compassion and shock. What happened in Paris is unacceptable in all respects, outrageous, and, of course, Fidesz deeply sympathizes with the victims, their families, their nation. But right after that, we also have to say that in the present situation, the premonitions, the bullshit, the empty speeches that were heard before the crisis and before the bombing and the terror, as if there had been no change, they put condolences in quotes. You can't make a fuss right now. The whole crisis, the failure that the European Union has now caused with immigration policy and the resulting terrorism, cannot be solved if we are wrong. Today, the leaders of the European Union, headed by President Juncker, have a responsibility to make this happen. It has a responsibility because it is a leader of the European Union who is unable to enforce with the European Union the rules and laws it is obliged to enforce. Greece has been violating the Schengen Convention for years. [[György Balla: That's right!]] You must exclude him from the Schengen Convention. There is no other way to maintain order in Europe, only if it has leaders who are not only swaying Hungary and small countries, while they tolerate everything from those countries that are making a declaration by their leaders that, for their part, they are unwilling to comply with the Dublin conventions for various moral reasons. The Schengen conventions turn a blind eye to throwing up and say there's nothing to do. There's work to be done. If there is a rule of law in the European Union, then the Dublin Conventions must be respected. And not only should Hungary be subject to infringement proceedings if, by the way, Hungary takes immigrants into foreign police custody, who are illegal immigrants, but everyone must be subject to proceedings consistently. I can't do this any other way. If the European Union has leaders who cannot comply with the law but do not propose to change these laws, then resign! How many hundred more people have to die to draw that simple conclusion? ! [[A long applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.50]] Because the situation is not complicated enough for everyone to talk about a common European solution in a foggy distance. The current rules are clear. The person who has the right to political asylum must be admitted. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, They're not terrorists. Those who are entitled to political asylum are not terrorists. You don't have to let anyone else in. That's the current rule. This is recorded in Schengen, which is recorded in Dublin. It's as simple as that. Yeah, if the leader of the largest European country invites illegal immigrants, what do we do? Who has to obey the law? Just us Hungarians? And can we be put to shame because we are desperately and effortlessly trying to keep Dublin, try to keep Schengen and defend Europe, at least the part that belongs to us? If the Union continues to do this, the blood of the other victims will be on our hands. It cannot be tolerated, because it is the result of an entire political community's governing body spreading its hands regretfully and saying that we are helpless. Yeah, they're helpless. And in the meantime, if they can't comply with the rules and the laws that are common law, they will spread their arms and exercise the entire community on totally illegal false solutions contrary to all international conventions. This resettlement quota is useless, and they know it, and they say it in the corridor; it's useless; it exports terrorism to the entire European community. It doesn't make sense. And the question you have to answer to the European leadership is how many hundreds of people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You're gonna have to die to change that. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-12	We've come to the end of a series of reactions. If the Prime Minister so requests, I'll give you a rejoinder. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2015-11-16-13	Mr President, I'm not even sure it's right for me to answer any of the points. We are at a very delicate moment when we are still under pressure from grief, and at the same time we must not wait, because we do not know that if we do not do something, then what happened on Friday will not come to us again one day. So maybe it's better if we talk than just mourn. Therefore, I would like to answer my fellow Member Schiffer's first thought that I have observed: there is a reflex - perhaps he will allow me to consider it a bad reflex - which when he finds himself facing a big problem, citing that everything in the modern world is connected to everything, he considers this problem to be global, and he will immediately draw a lesson: well, if the problem is global, then it can only be solved globally, and we are as big as we are, and as long as there is no agreement in the Union or in the whole globe, there is so much to be done. What I would like to say is that the reference to the global nature of things should not lead to our debates learning that we have nothing special to do here, but to waiting for a common solution. We did this in the European Union from the first attempt in Paris to the decision of the Hungarian government to build a fence. We consulted, we sought a common solution, and everyone said that it could only be together, until we said that it was clear that nothing had ever come out of this together. So let's all do what comes from his talent, his ability, his position, his status obligation. This is what Hungary did. So, while I accept your argument that the nature of the challenge is global, I ask where our place is in this global crisis, and what obligations do we have in this place, and that obligation must be fulfilled. What Hungarians can do must be done here and now - the Hungarian government is led by this conviction. The second comment was also interesting, which was about the need for the secret services to cooperate. I do not dispute this, but I would like to point out that, in this situation, the problem was not caused by the cooperation of the secret services. Well, everyone said, as I mentioned, perhaps in my introductory thoughts, months ago, there was no such head of security and intelligence in Europe, including the Hungarian, including the German, there was no police chief throughout Europe who did not tell me whether there would be a terrorist act, but when it would be and where it would be. Because everything that is happening can have no other consequences; it was visible. We cannot hide with the fact that no European leader can cover up the fact that some information was not available, because things, the problem, are necessarily the result of the nature of immigration - uncontrolled and uncontrolled, uncontrolled people streaming from a war zone into our peaceful world. Why, what did we think would happen, ladies and gentlemen? So, while we are encouraging the cooperation of law enforcement, border police and secret service organisations, we are not deluding ourselves that this is what we need now to avoid trouble. The sentence that Hungary is responsible also hit my ears. I think Hungary must be responsible for a lot of things, and I would be the last person to say about my own kind that we would be flawless, and I am the last person to say that we are not just now flawless, but we have always been. So I think that we Hungarians are well aware of our historical responsibilities and are aware of our abilities - not only of our virtues but also of our disabilities. But in a situation like this, when I think there was only one country who did what had to be done in time and in time, are we talking about our own responsibility? What kind of self-hating reflex is that? Why do we hate ourselves? I'm not saying that we should be praised by the opposition, I'm not saying that it says that there was a government in Europe that said that people, let's take this seriously. I do not expect that, because that would be contrary to the nature of party politics. But to say on the opposition side that Hungary has a responsibility - why do we hate Hungarians so much? Us? What is the reason for this? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Only the government!]] What is the reason for this? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So I would like to suggest that we try to share the virtue of moderation together, in line with the gravity of the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the leader of Jobbik for his comment on which we all share in the pro-government benches that security is not a party policy issue; we will look for the resulting opportunities for cooperation when this is needed. All I need to say here is that the Hungarian government is taking the most decisive action against both forced resettlement, i.e. quota and repatriation. I would like to inform all citizens of Hungary that there will be no quota or deportation here, as long as this government can breathe. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercom from Fidesz: Good!]] I feel the comment of the Christian Democratic People's Party is exciting and valuable, because - not now, because everything is too close to what has happened, but at some point - we should talk about the question expressed by the Member, because he did not talk about what will happen to the European Union, which is a very important and exciting question, but about what will happen to European civilisation. This may allow us to have a bigger view and a wider horizon. Not now, but at some point, it is worth talking about the question that, if this goes on, then the 21st century will be the same. In the middle and end of the century, what will become of our European civilization. And if we link this to the issue of immigration, we need to ask whether a civilization is capable of sustaining itself if we replace the people who created it with other people. And those who are interested in the answer are studying the history of the United States. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But it's another argument, maybe later and another time. However, allow me to raise the sentence of the respected leader of the Socialist Party that terrorists are responsible for terrorism. That's an important sentence, I think. I hardly think any of us would question the truth of this sentence. Only this question does not stop on its own, it is decided, because there is another question: of course, terrorists are responsible for committing terrorist acts - but who is responsible for protecting ourselves? We're responsible for that! [[14.00]] So, to minimise the threat of terrorism, to prepare, to counterintelligence, to predict, to reduce the risk, it's all our responsibility. And whoever said yes to immigration, rather than moving people from war zones, those leaders did not do everything they could to ensure the safety of the people in Europe. It's the truth! I know that grief is close, and to ask the question of responsibility, especially if you feel that you are not a part of it, it may not be tasteful, but sooner or later we have to ask that question. We have to ask the question: those who brought him in... - because they did not let him in, I would like to repeat it again: immigrants do not come to Europe today, we send vehicles for them. The Greeks will not be forced to comply with the agreement, immigrants will come in there and we will send vehicles for them. And the debate in the European Union is only about how we can create the safest and most humane travel conditions for them, while we do not know whether we are not exactly delivering the terrorists who are going to do what we have all seen in Paris. I therefore think that they should be calm, moderate, but we must ask whether the leaders of Europe have done everything in their power to protect the safety of European people, even if they are not responsible for terrorist acts, because, as the MSZP has said, terrorists are responsible for it. But that doesn't mean our responsibility is zero. We'll have to talk about that later. But there is even a bigger problem here, honourable Member. [[Turning towards the benches of MSZP:]] What your comment may have revealed is whether there was an accident, so everything that happened was a derailment, an extraordinary event, or a systemic error. I do not think that this is the case - I do not think that we could discuss it today, and I do not want to use ideological categories now, because the discussion is going in the wrong direction - that the ideological thinking that has always been the characteristic of European intellectuals, and that the European intellectuals have always made a great and strong demand to participate in European politics, so that they have brought it into European politics, putting pragmatism and the laws of common sense behind us, well, whether it is not that this approach has been given too much space in European politics and that a kind of suicidal tendency has taken over us. Well, what can be called, I repeat, I apologize if I bore you and Syria, and we are at war with the Syrian government, European powers, the Member States of the European Union; we are carrying out acts of war in Iraq; we are carrying out acts of war in Afghanistan; we are carrying out acts of war in Afghanistan, and then people from there without being controlled and identified, without knowing who they are, who have taken weapons, who have killed, who are members of any terrorist organization, without knowing anything about it, will we bring them from the war zone to our own peaceful hinterland? Well, what can you say? ! It's a systemic error. You can't make a mistake like that, it's not a mistake, it's not a bad decision. And if we think about it, if we think about it in our system, it will prevent us from taking action against this threat. That is why I said that I think we need a new European policy. It is not that we need to correct the error with a better flow of information, but that we need to think differently about our lives and our future, that is, in Hungarian: we need a different policy, because otherwise we cannot defend ourselves and suicide is European. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] We will be dominated by intellectual tendencies. And, of course, I do not want to overwhelm this idea, because at the same time the European left is right at the same time, including the Hungarian left, that without intellectual freshness, without intellectual innovations, there is no politics and there is no successful and decent life. But Europe needs to know that it is not the first time that it has made a mistake. If European politics is not strong enough, certain ideological tendencies, crazy ideas will be powerful on the continent. Well, that's already happened. It's not the first time we've faced this. It happened when they thought they were European intellectuals, by the way, that there was a kind of order between Europeans. Then it became what it became, national socialism and racial theory. Then smart people in Europe thought that the good thing is that we're all equals, and then we're homo sovietic and Stalinism. [[Intercom from the benches of the MSZP: Like now...]] And now I think that some people think that that's when we'll be happy, that we'll have a nice life in Europe, that if we eliminate the nation states, we'll turn them off. That's as crazy a idea as the last one. We must therefore stand firmly for the Europe of nations and for the European Union, which is organised on a national basis. I think that's what we're supposed to do. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] and this work must be done in the next time. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-14	Dear House, We now turn to the comments before the agenda announced by the political groups. [[Several Members leave the room. Noise.]] First, on behalf of the Group of the LMP, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél... - as soon as the movement in this Chamber is over. And in the meantime, I'm gonna ask the congresswoman to put her card in the machine. [[It's happening.]] I would like to ask the fellow Members to try to do this outside the meeting room for everyone who has other important work to do. So everyone take your seats and listen to the congresswoman. There you go. I'll give you the floor. The land heist must be prevented! He will address his comments with a title.
u2015-11-16-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today, the land auction begins in the country. What's this about, what's just begun in this country? It's about you guys in Fidesz and KDNP wanting to sell 400 billion land in two months, full-tempo, without parliamentary authority. This means that you, honourable government parties, will sell 10 billion forints a day of state wealth. I must tell you that, at this rate in the last 25 years, none of the governments have burned our common fortunes. And Fidesz is doing this, even though it was you who, in previous years, were very much in favour of the need for a big and strong state. It was you who were fierce enemies of all kinds of privatisation. Then you will begin one of the biggest privatisations in the country; a privatisation that will be bitter even for our grandchildren and great-grandsons. But let's talk about the point, because the point is always behind the scenes when it comes to such a big deal. Let's talk about why this is necessary. In short, there's an oligarch war going on here, and you and your oligarchs are hungrier than ever before. It's about you and Lajos Simicska fighting, and now we need to capitalize on your new friends. I could say that the fidesz ground privatization is about Lőrinc Mészáros and their other new friends being richer than Lajos Simicska and his old friends. And now you are so brazenly greedy that you are able to throw the entire future of the Hungarian countryside into the trash just to have your friends with your money. That's the truth, and everything else you're saying about ground-privatization is a lie. It is a lie that land privatisation will prevent foreigners from getting land in this country. This is precisely the transaction through which foreigners will be able to buy land and buy Hungarian land. You're assisting with this. It is also a lie when they claim that local small and medium-sized farms will land here. You know, you've built a very carefully-built barrier system that prevents decent entrepreneurial farmers from coming up to your land licenses, entering and running with decency at this challenge. Here is the registration, which is 30 thousand forints, and there is the need to deposit 10 percent for the bidding, which is 10 percent for the starting price of the land. You know very well that many local farmers are not in a position to do so, so decent rural farmers will basically have two options if this land robbery takes place: one is that they will either be stromanes or they will be trapped in debt. You know, it's a process in which you can achieve that the Lőrinc Mészáros, a completely dirty business, is rich, said farmers can get their hands on valuable and larger pieces of land, and everyone else, and the real farmers, at best, will get smaller, worthless pieces. [[14.10]] It is also a lie that local farmers will be able to buy land. I would like to remind everyone that it was you who broke up agricultural education, and now, after a month's crash course, any artificial nail or gas mechanic can claim to be a local farmer. If the Fidesz people behind me stop shouting at me, then I will also tell you that the biggest lie is that land privatisation can strengthen the Hungarian countryside and increase rural employment. [[Interjection from Fidesz: Who is shouting?]] You know, it is a situation in which we are now in which it is impossible to create jobs in the countryside without a state estate policy, without state land, there is no state estate policy, although you have never really had a rural policy since Professor Ángyán is not with you. The last five years have been about adapting land laws to the current phase of the oligarch war. Today, with this shameful process, you will throw the Hungarian countryside into a feudal line, where honest farmers can have two kinds of fates: either the debt trap or they can be stromanes in their own country. Look, the land auction started today, and you're in a rush to sell two thirds of the land you can grow in less than two months. But don't think it's gonna be that easy. We are there, we are there at the auctions now, and we will do everything we can to prevent them from doing this shame behind closed doors, and later, ladies and gentlemen, we will take back all the land you steal, decoy and carry. You can hear it right there in the government lines, stealing, decoying and spreading, that's what this is all about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because you are stealing from every Hungarian citizen, no matter what you say on the government side, the truth is this! [[A rare applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-16	I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-11-16-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I listened with interest to your suggestions of generality and political speech. So far, there have been serious topics here in Parliament, and I have seen that all speakers have tried to prepare themselves; you are the first exception today. Because what you have said here is entirely out of the air, showing a complete lack of knowledge of both the legislation and the national rural strategy, the Ignatian Dányi programme. Of course, it is talkative that you make this comment, not Róbert Sallai, Benedek's fellow Member [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Tell me your bids.]] I'm guessing he's bidding at the bid, because he wants to buy land. [[Defiance.]] He wanted to buy a protected area, which is what he was going to do, because it will also be possible for farmers with LMPs to buy land in Túrkeve, as well as for other farmers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. András Schiffer intervene.]] In fact, even for those who are farmers who may have completed gas-manufacturing, art nail training or education at school, because the rules on farmers are exact, the Parliament has accepted this. And the agricultural training, thank you very much, is fine. The agricultural vocational training institution system belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, where all the necessary measures have been taken to ensure the proper level of training. If you have a problem with other forms of training that are not the subject of school-based training, feel free to report to the appropriate organisation supervising education. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. András Schiffer intervene.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to the rest of the comment, because we can see that it is not really the Hungarian farmers who need to fear the Hungarian land, not the farmers, but the anti-farming forces that are brought together in the opposition coalition, who are willing to go to Brussels or the Constitutional Court so that the land does not belong to Hungarian farmers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. András Schiffer intervene.]] Whoever owns the land, but not the Hungarian farmers. And now they're shouting privatization when there's 40,000 localization numbers, 40,000 parts of land, 10 percent of which is over 10 hectares. [[Zoltán Pride: That's not true!]] So we're talking about scattered parcels, they're being sold, and then they're vitiating oligarch major estates, and once they're down, and once they're robbing, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you used too strong a word when you were talking about kidnapping. The Btk. determine what the robbery is. A robbery who takes alien things away from someone else in an illegal way by using violence against someone or a direct threat to life or physical integrity. I suggest that the congresswoman choose the terms, the words she uses. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Because here there will be a few thousand farmers buying land in the coming period...
u2015-11-16-18	Congresswoman, please. Excuse me, Minister. I'm asking the two-member LMP fraction to let the Minister tell you his answer, even if you don't like it. You had five minutes to explain what you were saying. That's how much respect everyone in this House deserves. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-19	Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-20	Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-16-21	Thank you very much, Mr President. So I suggest you refrain from using such terms as land robbery and other violence, because here, please, we are talking about auction, public auction, purchase offers, pre-emptive licenses, and so on, so whoever buys land there is a farmer, a farmer, and certainly not a robber. He's definitely not a robber, he's not someone who steals from me, he's not someone who privatizes - he goes there and buys. And I think that the Hungarian economic society must reject this, reject this whole LMP concept, just as the Hungarian economic society did in the elections, when it provided your representatives with the percentage they otherwise got into Parliament. Next thing you know, who can buy land? The person who is effectively included in the auction but who is also entitled to additional purchases. The current land user shall also be entitled to a pre-emptive right; a farmer who has been operating a livestock establishment and buying for the production of fodder in the land in question for at least one year; a farmer who has lived in the area and who has been living in the farmhouse for at least three years shall be entitled to this right; or a farmer whose place of residence or farm centre has been within 20 km of the land planned for sale. Therefore, there can be any reference to a host course, these are specific requirements which the authority checks for compliance with, and farmers who are there will also check with these permissions. So, Congresswoman, you're obviously indiscreet because of your indiscretion, you're here vitiating oligarch empire constructions and land wealth accumulation. These rules are guaranteed to prevent it [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To build more land on someone's hands beyond the limit of 300 hectares. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-22	Dear House, I would like to announce that Mr Tobias has stopped saying his contribution before the agenda, given that he wanted to talk about matters which have already been mentioned in connection with the Prime Minister's speech. This is a positive example for the next speeches. [[Defiance.]] Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the European Parliament, will be following up on the inhuman attack on European Christian values on the part of KDNP. Congressman's got the floor.
u2015-11-16-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent days, the victims in France have been remembered all over the world. In memory of the victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris, yesterday was a national day of mourning, and quiet commemorations were held throughout the country, thus expressing sympathy with the French people. Last Friday's Paris assassination aims to undermine and destroy Europe's Christian foundation. European people's freedom and form of life, human life, have been attacked, which threatens the safety of our everyday lives. One of the most important values in Europe is tolerance, the 2000-year presence in European societies of the Christian values of love. Every person is unique and unrepeatable, so he deserves respect. We are different, and this is natural for us, but this is also the core of our belongings. The right to act according to everyone's conscience comes from the indestructible dignity of the human person. Dear Parliament, Twenty years ago, on the initiative of UNESCO, the UN declared 16 November to be the International Day of Tolerance in order to make life, health protection and respect for human personality the most important and important aspect in the world. So today should be about mutual understanding, friendship, cooperation and lasting peace between peoples, instead of today's terror and immeasurable mourning in Europe and Hungary. Pope Francis said: "What happened in Paris is not human, and there is no proof, neither religious nor human. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.20]] The terrorist attack in Paris is therefore unacceptable, unacceptable and sobering in all respects. Europe must wake up and sober up from the empty liberal pink mist. We must rediscover and defend the values, traditions, diversity and spiritual wealth of the Europe of nations, which has, after all, kept it for thousands of years. Europe must be renewed spiritually and spiritually in order to be a safe and healthy continent again. Dear House, The Hungarian government immediately initiated measures to protect the Hungarian people as a result of the terrorist attack in Paris. According to the decision of the National Security Cabinet, reinforced security measures have been put in place in Hungary. We also know that the extraordinary meeting of EU Ministers for Home Affairs and Justice was convened on Friday to discuss the response to the attacks in Paris. Europe has had to face and must face the dangers of barbarity and terrorism, and this warns us that we must work together. The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party calls on the government to continue to do everything in its power to protect Hungarian people and European values in these times of distress. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-24	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-16-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that this tragedy is terrible for both the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Government, and as everyone here who has spoken let me begin by saying so, that we share the pain of the people who have lost their father, brother, child or good friend in this terrorist attack. This is a barbaric act that European civilisation, the European Union, cannot leave. And we can say that this is not the first such act, because if we look back in the history of the last 15 years, then there have been many other victims of terrorism from the same conceptual circle. Obviously, we all know the beginning of a new era, and it may mean September 11, 2001, when nearly 3,000 people died. Similarly, on 11 March 2004, Muslim extremists in Madrid exploded in rush hour traffic and caused 191 deaths and wounded 1800 people. In 2005, a year later, on 7 July in London, a Muslim man committed suicide on a bunk bus, 56 people were killed, 700 were wounded. In 2013, at the marathon race in Boston on 15 April, three people died and 260 athletes were wounded and viewers were also injured. In 2014, if we only look at the events of the last year, the attack in Sidney was carried out, on January 7, 2015 in Paris, on February 15, 2015 in Copenhagen, where there was a 22-year-old attacker. On 18 March 2015, a terrorist attack was also carried out by the Islamic State in Tunis, on 3 May 2015 in Dallas, on 26 June 2015 by a 23-year-old assassin in Tunisia, and several British tourists were killed. On 26 June 2015 there was also a bombing in Lyon, and on 31 October 2015 224 people died in an air disaster in Egypt. And you might know that various murders, crimes, and executions against Christians have resulted in the death of a Christian in the world every five minutes in recent decades because he confessed his Christian faith. This means that in ten years, about a million people lost their lives because they declared themselves Christians. So when we think of the 120-130 people who died on Friday night or since then in the hospital, we can also see the death of another 10,000 people behind our grief with each person. When we express our condolences to everyone, we also express our condolences to ten thousand others for each sacrifice, as there are so many people who have lost their lives in different parts of the world because of their Christian faith or terrorist attacks. It is well seen in this assassination, where bombings were carried out at six to eight locations at the same time, that there was a need for a very broad organization, and that people were selected from thousands, tens of thousands, or even hundreds of thousands of radical Muslim fanatics who carried them out in the end, but apparently their reinforcements seem to be infinite. The locations are symbolic, which is why you are right, Mr President, when you say that there is a civilisation issue here, civilizations are colliding, because why else would they have chosen the exact location where the French and German football teams had a friendly match. Perhaps a very important symbolic display of European history after World War II is the French-German compromise and friendly match. Obviously, it is no coincidence that one of the suicide bombers was brought here; or to a club in Bataclan, where an American orchestra played in the place of a Jewish owner. This shows that the site was chosen symbolically for civilizational destruction, as well as not far from Charlie Hebdo's editorial office, where there was also an explosion. This draws attention to the civilisation conflict that we are facing in the next period. It is important to always ask who integrates who. Who changes when immigrants arrive in Europe with a mass of immigrants? Do we have to change our way of life because of increasing terrorism here, do we have to change our way of life, or can our values, our way of life, and remain dominant in Europe? I believe that this attack, too, has taken the lives of over a hundred people, and that life is the most important value we need to protect, was an attack on European lifestyle and European values. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-26	Now, the representative of Fidesz, Balázs Győrffy, will be the next: the land belongs to the Hungarian farmers! It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The land auction started today. The Hungarian economy has been waiting for this opportunity for a long time, and has wanted to take advantage of this opportunity for a long time, but let's be clear: they did not ask for a gift, they asked for an opportunity; we thank you for the opportunity that the Hungarian government has heard and listened to. It is important in the form in which they asked for help. They asked to participate in this programme under the current land law, at market prices, under transparent conditions and with appropriate market and bank financing. They have been given the opportunity to strengthen their economies so that they can buy land. What, then, do you want, fellow Members? All they asked to do was work. However, the anti-farming league with opposition cooperation has been able to do so in Brussels and in the Constitutional Court until an additional line of protection was eliminated, which would have basically served to ensure that non-Hungarian citizens could not participate in the bidding. However, this additional line of protection was abolished by the Hungarian government at Brussels pressure to avoid the abolition of the entire legislation. You have withdrawn this word from him, my fellow Members of the opposition, and I congratulate you. Congratulations on winning a battle against us farmers. However, I would like to say that this was only a battle, and they could not win the final victory, because the bids were on the move. And what God gives, there is interest! There is interest, there is someone who wants to expand, and the bid is in order. [[Zoltán Haughty: Not much!]] Bidding's going to be fine. Ladies and gentlemen, By the way, opposition politicians have been shouting in the press at the end of the last week that now they are happy-happy, every foreigner can buy land in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, That's not factually true. In Hungary there are only 200 farmers who are not Hungarian citizens. This is the total of 2 thousand of the Hungarian farmers, the camp that is now entitled to buy land. They may be the ones who own land for 300 hectares in Hungary. Hungarian farmers, fellow Members, can also expect us to do everything in our power to create a level playing field for their farming. [[14.30]] After all, it is not fair to pay 580 forints on one side of the road per golden crown, while on the other side of the road thousands of forints and market prices. It's unworthy! Tomorrow, by the way, we will find out how the opposition stands on this issue. I could also say that we will find out who stands where, who supports who, in the host language, is separated from the wheat, honourable Members, who will stand on the party of the oligarchs and who will stand on the side of the Hungarian farming community. However, I can assure the Hungarian farmers that if we cannot get the support of the opposition for this important legislative amendment tomorrow, we will also do everything in our power to eliminate this unworthy situation, and we will continue to look for the opportunity to eliminate this unworthy state. Partners can bid bravely, they can take advantage of this historic opportunity, because they can be sure, as they have done, we will continue to stand up for their interests, and we will do everything we can to ensure that they and their families exist in the Hungarian countryside in the long term. For one of the most important guarantees of the Hungarian land's survival is that the Hungarian farming community can manage our agricultural land effectively, because if this happens, no one will be able to persuade them to part with the land that is the key to their long-term prosperity. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-28	Once again, Minister Sándor Fazekas has the floor.
u2015-11-16-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that you raised this important question, because in recent weeks there have been serious debates between the walls of the House on land sales, on auctions, about who can buy land and who can't, and I am glad that everyone can now see that the idea of the government helping Hungarian farmers access land was right. The land auction is taking place. I have a summary of where, how many people have applied... [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] We are on the first day, honourable fellow Members. It can be said that practically every land is interested in usually two or three farmers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Minister, that is not true! Well, I was there.]] I trust that this will be the case later, as Hungarian farmers have already shown that they are interested in state lands, as we have mentioned. We have sold mostly smaller parcels, since 2014, 8 thousand, less than 3 hectares, and now in a few days we have written out 12,000 more, and the auctions involved about 9 thousand parcel areas. On the first auction day, it's a hundred in some counties. So the way I see it, we've started the job, we're making progress, and of course we're going to go through with it. The interest on the part of farmers is clear. They do not go to demonstrations of the opposition coalition, the anti-owner coalition, but they look at the announcements and go to the auctions, indicate their purchase demand, and they will buy the lands that are essential to complement their own economy, so that they can thrive in the Hungarian countryside. They are also supported by a favourable credit facility, which can be relied on. The interests of the Hungarian State and the community are protected by the right to buy back, which is also a 20-year ban on disposal and loading. And to ensure that as many as possible get land and large estates do not develop, the provision, which is also provided for in the Land Traffic Act, promotes a maximum of 300 hectares of property. Thus, this precludes speculation or the accumulation of greater wealth from the ground, another measure helps, regardless of the criticisms of the government decree, since there are pre-emptive rights available to farmers, so in one of the first places, the current user of land, if he has been using the area planned to be sold for at least three years. He may be a resident neighbour, resident locally, or a user whose place of residence or farm centre has been in the municipality for at least three years, the administrative limit of which is no more than 20 km from the administrative border of the municipality of the land to which the sale is made on a public road or private road. These are important provisions, because there have been speeches and attacks, but these are real measures and they provide protection for Hungarian farmers. However, there is also the right to pre-emption by a farmer who has been operating a livestock establishment in the municipality of the land for at least one year prior to the exercise of his right to pre-emption and whose acquisition is intended to ensure the production of feed for livestock. A farmer who works on a line of production and processing of a product with a geographical indication and a designation of origin, or who carries out organic farming, also has the right to pre-purchase. The local neighbouring farmer and the locally resident farmer, who is not a neighbour, and also farmers whose place of residence or farm centre has been in the municipality for at least three years, the administrative limit of which is no more than 20 km from the administrative border of the municipality of the land under sale on a private road or on a private road which has not been blocked from public traffic. Why have I read all this, my dear Parliament, since many other questions may arise? Obviously, it doesn't include the person who, say, got a goldfisher's host course this year, he's somewhere in the back of the line. So here there are opportunities for farmers who live on the ground, which is guaranteed by the Land Traffic Act, which, by the way, the opposition has done everything here from the bell to the boycott, and now they are trying to lock and lock the chain at the auctions - not too wittyly. So, Honourable Parliament, you can see well in the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian farmers can clearly see that their interests in this House are represented only by Fidesz-KDNP and the government. This is the most important message of this day, the suggestion that concerns the delivery of farmers to the land. Thank you. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Bravo! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-30	The last of the speeches before the agenda will be Mr Zoltán Magyar, a member of the Jobbik Group:. The government has started to sell out one of the last national assets, thus cementing the colonial fate of our country. Congressman's got the floor.
u2015-11-16-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Today, the land auction has started, and the problem is not only that they continue the journey that the left has been taking for 25 years, where you have been in this country, that is to say, they have lived up to the rest of the national wealth, and the problem is not only that it is the colonial fate of our country, it seems to be cemented, but it is also a problem that they face their own earlier promises. And not only did they deceive us oppositionists, but most importantly their own voters, because whatever they could say, Minister, the national rural strategy contained just the opposite of what they are now implementing, in 2012, the government accepted exactly the opposite of what they are doing now, and at that time they said that more state land was needed, more state resources were needed in order for the government to interfere with the existence of the Hungarian countryside. And why are we saying that we can envelop the greasy snacks, the greasy land, are acquired by the oligarchs associated with you? That's because the land lease experience of the last few years shows this. This is not an air scare against the opposition; the biggest winner of the leases was Lőrinc Mészáros and his circle, for example, in terms of 800 hectares. Why would we believe that now it's gonna be different? At the same time, they promised to help local family farmers, but instead, we can see that in two thirds of these areas, your circles did. In addition, it is a sin for what they are doing now against the future, because any decent government will come from 2018, it will be very, very limited the opportunity to pursue a meaningful, real public-interest rural policy, as they are playing the most fundamental tool for the current Hungarian governments, the state agricultural land. All this for what? They say the farmers wanted it. Minister, Magos and the Chamber of Agriculture do not mean the word of farmers to me; they are organisations whose leaders sit here in well-paying jobs in your benches, and they have long since lost the opportunity to act in the interests of farmers, and they do not do so. The Hungarian state land was corrupted to the level of a gang war. I believe that you have quarreled with your dear oligarch, and now you want to support others, but do not sacrifice the Hungarian soil on the altar of this war. They say the land belongs to the man who cultivates it. Minister, this is a very hypocritical and deceitful sentence, because the land would indeed be owned by the one who would cultivate it, if it were given to family farmers living in a permanent wage, at a reduced rate, instead of trying to sell the best land at a starting price of 120 and 180 million forints. Show me a decent farmer who can produce 120 or 180 million forints, Minister. That's ridiculous. Of course, there will be land, small plots of land, which will actually be bought by farmers, not addressed by Jobbik's speeches or manifestations. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Yes!]] We never talked about them, we hope that as many of these areas as possible will go to them. Unfortunately, they won't have that many million forints. Let's just say it's worth it for you to serve your friends with state land at the same time as risking a significant part of it going to foreigners. [[14.40]] And while we're with foreigners, there's a lot of snooze and snooze on your part all the time. You have made a decree, which, by the way, is contrary to your law, and I stress that you have also brought in, the land traffic law, which has gone against this land-privatisation regulation. Don't try to pin this on the opposition and point that at Brussels. You don't mean that, Minister, I hope that Jobbik would have turned to Brussels at any time on any matter. We've always kept the laundry at home and tried to settle it at home, it's not like Jobbik at all, but if you've brought a harsh land law that doesn't protect the Hungarian land from foreigners, don't try to pass it on to others! Jobbik has always been clearly against foreign land ownership. I believe that we proved this in the debate already cited in the Land Traffic Act, when we even physically tried to prevent the adoption of this law by taking the podium. So just like buying foreign land, you have to bear the consequences of the gang war. And instead of using state land as a real family farmer, they're throwing it to the big money now. Which family farmer will be indebted to tens and hundreds of millions of people for lease contracts up to 2053? Don't take us for fools, Minister, or your voters. This will certainly benefit earth speculators and those you have chosen for your new circle of friends. Of course, Jobbik is still unable to accept land privatisation, but we demand that this shameful legislation be withdrawn, at least until we answer questions about foreigners, capitalists and speculators, we stop it with hard legislation, and of course we also want to clarify the role of politicians in the matter. That's why we're waiting for a statement that will [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] clears you of whether or not you're running for bid. Today we look forward to your meaningful response to this. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-32	Minister Fazekas has the floor again.
u2015-11-16-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I didn't quite understand from the background noise exactly what kind of statement you're expecting about who's running on the ground or not. I'm not planning on running, but I think a farmer should go. There are 103,000 farmers in this country. By the way, I don't want to comment on any bids or any bidder in advance. You're talking about future things, where you're going, and then how much land you're going to buy or not buy. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, One thing has to be stated: Fidesz-KDNP did not turn to the Constitutional Court for a text of government decree protecting Hungarian farmers, but you did it, a respected opposition and anti-ownerial coalition. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I don't understand... you attacked this regulation when it was in force, and now you're attacking it because it's not in force. So I think we will be able to resolve this contradiction. Is the land law strong or weak? Honourable Congressman, You had a strong volume, but you couldn't bring in a better land law than the Fidesz-KDNP and the government of national affairs put on the table. I suggest that if you know a foreigner who has bought land since the entry into force of the new land law, then feel free to raise it, bring up the name, and then we will examine it. But as far as I know, since the new land law came into force, there hasn't been a foreigner in that obstacle course. I would like to draw your attention to this. Yeah, and why isn't your land law here before the National Assembly? This has been said several times here. Because, honourable Member, you announced land distribution in your programme in 2006 and then nationalisation. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's gonna rung the bell several times.]] They even wanted to take the land from the Hungarian farmers, which is currently owned by them. That's why they can't put a land law on the table. That's right, you couldn't deny it, and I think this silence is a talkative thing. Listening to this question is just as talkative as when it was the pushing, the bellowing, and the yelling when the land law was being presented. But I am sure that Hungarian farmers understand this precisely. So whatever noise you are trying to cause in the field, Hungarian farmers understand precisely that they want to know the land in their own possession, they know that Fidesz-KDNP can always count on, and they also know who would give the land to anyone, but not theirs. Because MSZ, LMP and Jobbik represent exactly this line. At least one comment in the interests of Hungarian farmers, I think it would be appropriate for these people, who are working very hard to have the country's food supply, to have economic growth and to have exports. To be able to produce, you need land! And the possibility of buying the land is now opening up. As I have already said several times, there are tens of thousands of parcels, most of which can be bought by farmers without loans, and they can add the advance, because this can be calculated on a plot of 5-6 hectares, with a few hundred thousand forints or a million forints in the amount of the advance or the purchase price. And we're convinced that the lease is better than property. Hungarian farmers, when they say that the land belongs to those who cultivate it, do not say that they want a lease, they say that they want property; then they do not have to pay rent, they can rely on their own property, they can base their farming on it. And it's completely out of the blue that farmers don't want to buy land. Honourable Congressman, I thought you were closer to the world of the earth. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Since the world, Hungarian peasants, Hungarian farmers, from the ages of grandfathers to the present times, everyone has wanted to buy land. A little or a big, with as much money as you have, if you could buy 1,000 square feet, you would buy that much if you could buy 100 acres, you would buy as much as you could handle it. I refuse, and I say completely out of the blue that you don't think there's any interest on the ground. This is also demonstrated by the thousands of offers I have already referred to, since the smaller areas are constantly arriving and the needs are coming. Honourable Congressman, Oligarchs, Jobbik, and so on. You will ask your own oligarch how he feels about the performance you are doing here in Parliament. You can ask Lajos Simicska what the price is, we can see that your press is good. [[It's an uproar.]] They can also ask News TV, Hungarian Nation and others. The important thing for us is that Fidesz-KDNP has one important thing: that Hungarian farmers can manage [[It's constant noise.]] they can buy these mostly smaller or larger parcels and thus complement their holdings. This is the task that we have set out: in clear, transparent conditions [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in an auction, this opportunity has been opened. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-11-16-35	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, the following representatives applied: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP; Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP; István Apáti, Jobbik; L. László Simon, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. On Wednesday, Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP applied for a speech after the agenda. On Thursday, Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, Dóra Dúró, Jobbik, President Novák, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda.
u2015-11-16-36	Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, in my power as President, I am calling for the V/7011 on the fight against increasing corruption and the accountability of corrupted politicians. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the groups of the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP, the resolution on certain house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2015-11-16-37	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the recommended 4 hour time frame is as follows. 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, which has initiated a doubling, so a total of 164 minutes. Forty-six minutes for the MSZP Group, which has been doubled, i.e. 92 minutes in total. Forty-one minutes for the Jobbik Group, which has been doubled, i.e. 82 minutes in total. 38 minutes for the KDNP Group. 24 minutes for the LMP Group, which has initiated a doubling, i.e. 48 minutes in total. The independent representatives have 9 minutes. [[14.50]] The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2015-11-16-38	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed in a time frame modified by the notary, as requested by Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has taken a decision on the timeframe by 161 votes in favour, 3 against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to derogate from house rules. In my capacity as President, I move that the T/7332 on the judicial procedure to be initiated by the Council of the European Union in the context of the decision on the allocation of applicants for international protection by compulsory quotas. In the course of the negotiations on the series of proposals, it should depart from the house rules in such a way that its consolidated debate can take place today and its final vote tomorrow. It proposed a derogation from the house rules T/7332/3. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I am asking this House whether it will contribute to the departure from house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has accepted by 159 votes to seven, without abstention, a derogation from the house rules. Today, amendments can be submitted at 15 hours 52 minutes. The joint debate will take place today as the first item on the agenda following the negotiation of the series of requests for inclusion, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place tomorrow. Dear House, The Fidesz Group proposed that, at today's meeting, CXXII of 2013 on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/6981. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste for the debate on the Committee reports and its summarised amendment. Act CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of certain public services and related legislative amendments. T/6984. It shall take place after the discussion of the legislative committee reports. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that the 2012 II on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements. Act T/6625, and in this context amending certain additional laws The decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall not be taken at this meeting. Anyone who agrees, please vote. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:54 p.m., we're moving on to interpellations and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr Zsolt Egyed K/7313. Mr Varga, Minister for National Economy, the motion was rejected. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Just an empty promise to develop rescue stations? It's an address. Congressman Tukacs, please. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-11-16-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to describe some of the circumstances in the history of the European Union's tender for rescue stations, from 2009 to today. Mr Secretary of State, as you know, in 2009, the amount that the country won was 11 billion HUF to rebuild and modernise rescue stations. This had to be done by November 2015; if this does not happen, the National Rescue Service has to build or renovate them with its own money. Mr Secretary of State, as we all know, this did not happen, because on 29 January, Secretary of State Csepreghy promised from the Government that this programme would be accelerated. Then you answered a question from a fellow Member. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] that by October 20 new rescue stations will be completed, and he also informed Parliament and our fellow Members that the National Rescue Service will cooperate with the local authorities in order to accelerate the project. Since the conditions of the programme included a justified case to reduce the 15-minute migration time to 86,5 per cent, let us be honest with you, this is justified. It is also appropriate if infinitely squeezed and overloaded paramedics try to get to patients in all parts of the country. Jumping back a little in time, however, let us say that in 2014 Viktor Orbán said in the campaign that 22 rescue stations were completed and 60 had already been renovated. In contrast, 1 was actually completed and 13 was renovated. There are currently 11 out of 22 useless, no ambulances coming out of there. 20 of the 60 people waiting for renovations weren't ready. Pál Győrffy, spokesperson of the National Rescue Service, made a very irresponsible statement in the press, which he failed to correct afterwards, because he himself did not give an accurate number. Dear Secretary of State, Therefore, I ask why the acceleration has not been successful, what has happened with this program. On the other hand, why didn't you hurry to help the municipalities when they had to build these stations, why did they leave it to a completely uncharted National Rescue Service? How will this failure affect the budget of the National Rescue Service, since it is not used by the European Union, but by its own resources that is forced to do so? And finally, Mr. Secretary, the most important question in all of this is: why did people have to be misled? What was the reason why they kept trying to mislead them? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-40	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-16-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The socialist government left a very big task for Fidesz-KDNP after 2010 in connection with the rescue service and rescue, because if we look at how many ambulances you bought during the last period of your government, we can see that these numbers were taken from the 100 new ambulances a year around the average, 84 in 2007, 80 in 2008, 19 in 2009 and 0 in 2010. From here we had to fight this, so in 2014 Hungary bought 184 ambulances again. So the shortage of rescue services in 2010 was enormous. However, this was, of course, not just an emergency service. Perhaps you have also read the OECD study published in recent days, according to which during your last period, between 2005 and 2009, the proportion of health spending per capita decreased by 2.3 percent, while during the next period, during the Fidesz-KDNP, this trend was completely reversed and increased from there. [[15.00]] Thus, a growing number of and good projects include the renovation of rescue stations, as we have set out the construction of 22 rescue stations and 60 renovations, the purchase of ambulances and equipment. The project was launched on 1 September 2012 and the grant agreement was concluded on 3 December 2012; the exact name of this was TIOP 2.2.1. 178 modern new ambulances were purchased, and the rescue service carried out the technical transfer at 81 locations, i.e. 81 out of 82 locations. This comes out as 60 renovations, 22 new buildings, and 81 locations, i.e. one out of each, took over the technical transfer. For the only one where the contractor didn't do the job, a new procedure had to be carried out and the final date was 30 November. The last, final, kind of ceremonial part of the investment is, of course, when these stations are inaugurated. In many cases, these are still to come, but this does not change the fact that the technical transfer-acceptance has already taken place at 81 locations. The municipalities were not beneficiaries of the projects, so it was the rescue service that carried out the entire construction project. However, it should be added that the municipality was, of course, contacted everywhere, because the authorisation procedure also required the effective involvement of the municipalities. So we can say that this project is going to take place on a schedule, and that is how all the new rescue stations will be completed. Furthermore, the security of the rescue is guaranteed, honourable Member, by the fact that the budget line of the National Rescue Service has increased considerably. While it was HUF 23.4 billion in 2010, it increased to HUF 32 billion in 2014 and then to HUF 37.5. So from 23 billion to 37.5 billion. I think it's a rise that would have been good for the socialist era, but they didn't. However, in the last four years, due to the operation of the Hungarian reforms, we have already had the funding that we have been able to increase the support of the rescue service by more than one and a half times in four years. So we got closer to our goal of getting ambulances to the smallest settlements in all parts of the country within 15 minutes. If, after the technical transfer, all the rescue stations start up and the ambulances can run out of there for the patients, then I think we'll be very close to this goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Tukacs if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-43	Dear Secretary of State, With due respect, I suggest you change your record. After five and a half years of government, talking about what happened during socialist governance, to say the least, is ridiculous. Moreover, in a case where you were struck by the fact that in 2009, i.e. during socialist government, you had 11 billion forints available to build a rescue station. Well, that must be a terrible blow. The thing is, you couldn't take advantage of this opportunity, and you've made false claims about the rescue stations. They couldn't live with it, but at the same time they were talking about how they were done, they were already there, they could be used. In 2014 it was said that twenty had been completed, but only one, that is quite misleading. Therefore, don't be surprised, Mr Secretary, if I do not accept your answer, because in this reply everything else was included, but not why it happened. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-44	Thank you. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I'm asking the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office's Chief Minister:, Support: How does the country's money disappear from the people in Viktor Orbán's environment? It's an address. The Interpellation will be answered by Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, on behalf of Prime Minister. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2015-11-16-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Minister, I am pleased that you are responding, because at the beginning of the cycle you announced that family businesses will be given priority in terms of subsidies in the new EU and domestic cycle, but I see that this seems to be falling more and more. The 80:20 percent between small and large plants, promised, remains a dream. Either they lied about this commitment, or worse, we're not speaking the same language. It is not for the first time, however, that this is not the first time that we have understood something completely different by the same words, since you are a resident family farmer who is a thousand-hectare industrial raw material producer who should certainly not be supported from these sources. Where is the national rural strategy that we have already mentioned today, which was developed by József Ángyán and his team, and one of the pillars of which was the expansion of state land ownership, and the subsidies that I mentioned should be added to those small and medium-sized farms that have been forgotten so quickly? In the countryside, however, one thing has certainly been achieved, Minister, namely the service of Fidesz buddies and the continued unbroken support of large capital. Your activities - contrary to their communication - have resulted in capital and property concentration in the Hungarian countryside. However, Fidesz's government land programme has been promising something else since the summer of 2010: a break-up with land policy serving global capital and a radical turnaround, talking about the national self-defense of the earth. However, the facts do not point in this direction. Hundreds of practical examples now show that the Land Traffic Act continues to enforce capital requirements and extend the large estate system. It seems that last year - but partial data are available from this year - the big ones are once again chopping. The companies of well-known names received the most agricultural subsidies. It is a rather worrying agricultural policy that, taking domestic and EU funds together, a significant proportion of the subsidies landed with businessmen among the ten richest people in the country. The question then rightly arises: is the government really supporting small farmers, indeed locally living, with the palms of their hands? But let's not forget the apparently increasingly popular master threesome of Flier and Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros, farmers. Last year, Mr Mayor doubled the amount of aid received compared to previous years, even though they were not low. Not to mention, he stole five villages in state lease applications. It can also be said at national level that 80% of the subsidies were granted to 10% of the beneficiaries, and the share of the lower 20 percent was less than half. It's a huge contradiction, Minister, and it goes against what you're otherwise communicating. After all this, I have one question for Minister: how do you like mercenary cosmos? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-46	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-11-16-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Congressman, you live across the Danube, you don't know the Grand Chamber. All my accomplices, all my ancestors, were free great-grandmen, never in wages, so I refuse to use the slander of derision. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The only thing you can see from your comments - one by one - is that you have no idea about the agricultural support system in the European Union. That's a bit of a problem, but the way you're doing it here in Parliament like it's some kind of scripture, that's really outrageous. You assume that in Hungary, EU subsidies have some kind of sanda intention, some kind of sty, some kind of coma woman, a good friend, and the other relationships have played a role, even though you, as an agricultural engineer, must be aware that these EU subsidies are based on normative grounds, depending on the area, the number of animals and specific performances, they are controlled by the Union, but we also check them. You mix land policy with area support, area area area with rural development and normative support for animal numbers, national and EU alike. That's how these numbers come out. The award of EU grants does not depend on who is good with whom, who is small and big, but on specific laws and regulations. One example of this is: we paid HUF 395 billion to 170 thousand producers in the 2014 area aid year, the same amount in 2015 was some 422 billion forints, and in 2014 the total support of the ten largest beneficiary companies was not even worth 2 percent of the Hungarian direct EU aid. Two percent, Your Honour. You can add the pears to the apple, and then get the results out of it, which we can obviously deny, except in this time frame. [[15.10]] So this is a strictly controlled aid scheme. It is part of the fact that around 85% of rural development aid was already committed or spent by the previous government before 2010. So the new government, the government of national affairs, has actually opened up in this period. That's what we're going to do with rural development subsidies. Our goal is to help small and medium-sized family farms. This is also shown by the fact that we no longer pay a single area payment for areas over 1200 hectares. So we have drawn a line, above which the larger owners are no longer supported. As regards the concentration of holdings, honourable Member, in 2015 compared to 2010, the land used by individual farms, small and medium-sized family farms, increased by 11 per cent over five years, by 279 thousand hectares. It's a statistical record, and you obviously don't take that into account, because you can't make a sound like that any other way, but that's the fact. Indeed, an increasing proportion of small and medium-sized family farms are using Hungarian land. Accordingly, the area owned by the large ones decreased, and even the average size of the estate decreased by 4 percent in four years. Obviously, this doesn't change much overnight, but we're going in the right direction. And it is absolutely impossible for large capital or global capital to buy land here, because the land law clearly has, for a particular person - not a company, because it is prohibited - no more than 300 hectares of land. So this is also a measure to help family economies. And what concerns many, whom you have mentioned by name, I do not wish to mention; only to such a level that if you believe that the 800 hectares, in the case of Lőrinc Mészáros, are the land of the 800 hectares of five or six villages, you should go there and look at these fields, for the most part of which there was a single candidate at the time, Lőrinc Mészáros. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-48	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-16-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept your reply, Minister. He slipped and lied again, which, by the way, he did not repeat for the first time today. The fact that I add up public money, that your favourites are financed from domestic or European Union funds is not a sin: it would be good for the Hungarian people to see clearly how many billion forints you will shorten them by giving these grants to their own circle of friends. Therefore, Minister, that answer was a slip and a lie. By the way, that 800 hectares are many or few for those five villages, ask the local family farmers who would have been very happy to cultivate that land instead of Lőrinc Mészáros. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: They didn't apply. Why didn't they apply?]] Well, it looks like the Minister likes mercenary cosmos, by the way. I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-50	Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 108 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the National Economy: - How does the government want to compensate those who work in jobs that are harmful to health? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-11-16-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Drivers won a moral victory over the government when, in its second instance judgment at the end of October, the Metropolitan Court held that the strikes announced by the train drivers' union, but eventually cancelled, would have been legitimate. The trade union wanted to bring about legislation on benefits and measures to trigger early retirement, which provides for workers with increased use of the organisation and harmful to health. Drivers also wanted to ensure that, until the entry into force of the new legislation, the government would also provide for the possibility of obtaining an early retirement period for the period after 31 December 2014. This would have allowed a man who had worked for at least 10 years and a woman who had worked for at least 8 years in a harmful job to health to continue to benefit from two years of age, which would have increased in proportion to the number of years worked. The trade union's demands also included important provisions to strengthen the responsibility of employers, such as the obligation for the companies concerned to operate corporate care systems in place of the early discount. For example, this would have meant that the company had to launch health care programmes, ensure employment in other jobs and acquire the necessary competence for workers who had become health-competitors to do their job. It is clear from the court's judgment how the NGM was involved in the whole question. The trade union requests have been continuously ignored, or have been referred to as the start of negotiations on the early retirement scheme in the spring of 2015, which was, of course, a big lie. According to the LMP, the government is playing a nasty game with employees: drivers, bus drivers, law enforcement, firefighters, those who undertake to perform public tasks that are essential to society, even if they pay for them with their health. Their situation, their fate, must be dealt with. How are they going to be compensated? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2015-11-16-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2015-11-16-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you have been misinformed because the negotiations have started, as members of the competitive sector and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government on 29 December 2014 agreed to open negotiations on three priority topics in February 2015. I would like to quote what you mentioned. One of these issues is the improvement of the situation of workers working under particularly high physical or psychological stress conditions, taking into account the abolition of early retirement schemes. I would also like to inform you and the Parliament, as I have said, that in the tripartite working committee established within the framework of the VKF, the representatives of government, employers and employees have started this work and have met several times, honourable Member. Therefore, you have been misinformed about the absence of substantive discussions, as the working committee on the management of increased risks to health has dealt with this issue in several committee meetings. In fact, at the end of their negotiations, there was even a document, a summary, and a report summarized the findings on the subject. However, in order to ensure the agreement, it was necessary not to open parallel negotiations in addition to the work of the Committee, and it was essential to keep in mind that the forum for discussing the subject was the competent working committee of the VKF. As a result, we have informed the trade unions about any consultation initiative on this subject to contact the representatives of the relevant VKF site. This has also happened in connection with the negotiation initiative of the trade union of drivers mentioned by you. I talked to them, continued a conversation with their congressman, who admitted it. Following their information, the representative of the train drivers' union took part in the working committee meeting among the delegates of the trade unions. On this basis, it was considered that the Vice-President's representation accepted participation in the VKF conciliation and played an active role in achieving the efforts of the employee side. I would also like to say that during the committee's work several open questions remain among the members of the employees' and employers' side, so the members of the monitoring committee of the VKF agreed that, in order to bridge the remaining differences in the subject matter, we will continue to discuss within this framework. It is essential to create and operate healthy and safe jobs. It is necessary to ensure that no harmful factors occur in the workplace which would endanger the health of the worker and his or her ability to work. This work will continue. At present, the VKF is discussing a different subject, but we agreed that this will also be on the agenda in the next period. So the government is open to suggestions. [[15.20]] However, we believe that it is important not only to make proposals that workers and employers... - to be more precise - can be supported by employers and workers' representatives, but this requires further discussions within the framework of the VKF, as I have said. This work is in progress. These negotiations will take place, so please accept my reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-55	I do not accept Mr. Secretary's reply. Mr Secretary of State began by saying that the government had begun to negotiate with the competition sector. It occurred to me that this goat should be entrusted with cabbage, the same thing, that we should start negotiating wages with the competition sector, that we should raise minimum wage or not. The unions, you said, are involved indirectly. We believe that the old system of protection of interests should be restored. I've been negotiating with union leaders lately. They said that, contrary to the government's earlier promise, this was not on the agenda. In fact, this is also confirmed by the fact that the trade unions came in for the support of the man 40, because if this were not the case, and the government had kept its promise that these negotiations would start this spring, then trade unions would not have started collecting signatures for the man 40, so that they could retire. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We're asking the government to start negotiations with the unions on purpose.
u2015-11-16-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. He didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Becsó, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The credit rating agencies also acknowledge the stability of the economy! How does low inflation ease the burden on families? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Becsó should take the floor.
u2015-11-16-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, positive statistics have been published on the situation of domestic retail. According to KSH data, retail sales have been growing steadily for more than two years, with more than 6 percent in the last year alone. Similarly, we have managed to achieve important results in the area of employment enlargement. Employment has been continuously improving since 2010, with an increase of nearly 500 000 workers in five years. This reduces unemployment in parallel. The unemployment rate has now decreased from 11 per cent in 2010 to 6.7 per cent. The government has also fought effectively to reduce the burden on the population. In contrast to what has been experienced in previous years, energy prices for Hungarian families are one of the lowest in Europe today. Following the release of foreign currency loans, Hungarian families were exempted from paying nearly HUF 1000 billion of loans. The Hungarian reforms work, and this is confirmed by the fact that in the last week, the Moody and international credit rating agency has improved Hungary's credit rating outlook from stable to positive. This is the hallway of the upgrade. Dear Secretary of State, Due to the low inflation environment and the improved labour market situation, real wages have increased steadily over the past two years, by more than 4 percent in the last 12 months. In addition, thanks to family tax incentives, more than 240 billion HUF stays with Hungarian families this year. Overall, in the first ten months of 2015, consumer prices were on average 0.2 percent lower on an annual basis and around zero inflation could develop by the end of the year. The austerity of inflation since 2010 also shows that Hungarian reforms are working. Thanks to these positive processes, there has also been a strong boost in the development of retail sales. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State how low inflation facilitates the burden on families. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State András Tállai. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-16-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you say in your interpellation, Hungary, the Hungarian government, the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people have achieved outstanding success in terms of economic results over the past five years. Economic growth has exceeded 3.7 percent in the last year, which brings us to the forefront of the European Union. Economic performance above the European Union's average is expected again this year, hopefully reaching 3 percent. There are, of course, other positive effects of economic growth, because if there is growth, there is essentially everything in the economy, so there are jobs. The number of jobs has increased by 500,000 people in Hungary since 2010, with more than 4 million 200,000 people working today. Indeed, one of the outstanding achievements of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, is to keep inflation in check. This is also an international trend, but the government's economic policy has also helped us to have a positive impact on prices and livelihoods by rising prices for the poor and inflation. In Hungary, the decline in money has basically ceased. Inflation has reached an unprecedented low level since 1968. The Hungarian Central Statistical Office also recorded a minimum of 0.1 percent inflation in October. This is the same as the prognosis of the Ministry of National Economy. As you ask in your interpellation, of course, this fundamentally affects the everyday life and living standards of Hungarian families, as, by increasing earnings, real wages have increased by more than 4 percent in the past period in Hungary, and this trend will continue in the following year, hopefully we will be able to measure a 5.5 percent increase in real income in the following year. From now on, the cost of electricity and energy prices mentioned by you has decreased significantly in Hungary, so that excess income and low overhead costs will increase the number of families spent on consumption, thereby achieving a significant increase in living standards. I think that a government can have no other economic policy purpose but to be good for people. In order for people, people, to feel that way in their everyday lives, these are the two ways to go. On the one hand, by increasing their income, by means of career models, providing an economic environment suitable for the competitive sphere, by providing an adequate income tax policy, such as reducing the level of personal income tax, and this has happened with the introduction of a single-key tax, and on the other hand, from 16 percent to 15 percent of personal income tax in the following year, with an appropriate family policy for families where there are children, by providing family tax relief, and by dynamically increasing it, we will be able to achieve an even more favourable position for these families. The outcome and the expectation, of course, is that inflation will not take all this extra income. Today, this is the economic policy in Hungary, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Becsó if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-61	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Mr State Secretary, too, it is true that he was indirectly concerned, and I would also briefly mention that after the 2010 elections, we were actually able to choose between two paths. We could have gone further on the path of austerity, the so-called Greek road, and now perhaps we would be in a more difficult situation than Greece, but Hungary has chosen another way. It proves the correctness of this decision, and I would like to mention some things without the need for completeness: investment figures are at the 17-year peak, the country is out of the excessive deficit procedure, we have repaid the IMF loan, employment has increased, unemployment has decreased, the public burden has been reduced due to the reduction of the rent, inflation is low, the economy is stable, retail traffic is growing, the direction is good, and the Hungarian reforms are working. I accept your answer. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[15.30]]
u2015-11-16-62	Thank you, Congressman Becsó. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. Why are Hungarian homes not important to the government? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of Prime Minister János Fónagy, State Secretary. I will ask Mr. Congressman - and then I will ask him. Let's hear the interpellation, Congressman.
u2015-11-16-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A month ago, I asked Minister Lazarus here in Parliament an immediate question to see if there would be a programme for energy efficiency renovation of residential buildings from European Union funds. Mr. Minister said in his reply that, I quote, he is privately owned, regardless of the fact that he has an industrially built dwelling or a house in a garden zone, he has no possibility of providing the Hungarian government with funds for the renovation of the house, according to the current EU legislation between 2014 and 2020. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the meantime, the head of the European Commission's Regional Directorate General for Energy Efficiency also made it clear in writing that the environmental and energy efficiency operational programme adopted by Brussels in February this year contains and demarcates non-refundable investment grants for energy efficiency renovation in both the residential sector and public buildings. This is done through the combination of two resources, which is financed by the above-mentioned CCP in the form of grants to be reimbursed by the financial instruments of the operational programme for economic and innovation. This confirmed the professional position of the Hungarian Energy Efficiency Institute that it is not only possible but also important to support the energy efficiency renovation of buildings, including the population, from EU sources. There is no EU legislation prohibiting the promotion of the restoration of Hungarian homes by non-refundable sources. At the press conference held at the end of the last month, Minister said that the question of why there will be no non-refundable resources for this purpose for the public was:. Free money for private property, for private individuals to save costs, contrary to the beliefs, views and political, or policy ideas of many. Don't give anything for free, because obviously it wouldn't take society in the right direction. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the other hand, in August, the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development said that next spring the application for the renovation of the antiquated family houses will be launched. With the 150 billion HUF grant, up to 3 million such houses can be renewed by 2020. At that time, it was envisaged that 40 percent of the renovation costs would have been non-refundable Union aid and 15 percent would have been interest-free reimbursable aid. About one third of Hungary's total primary energy consumption is consumed by residential buildings, nearly 40 percent of this could be saved by complex energy renovations. With these in mind, I ask Mr Secretary of State: why does the Government not support the energy efficiency and reduction of Hungarian homes from EU funds? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-64	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-11-16-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has always been committed to supporting energy efficiency investments in households and will continue to do so in the future. We are committed to reducing as much as possible the cost to families. This was the aim of the reduction of the rent, the positive effects of which are clearly reflected. The savings of a family with two children living in a condominium exceed HUF 100,000 per year, the household consumers saved more than HUF 373 billion in 2013 and 14 due to the reduction of the rent. It is a typical figure that Utilities over 30 days fell from 2012 to nearly 30 percent in 2015, from 95 billion to 68 billion forints. Mr. Congressman is now concerned about the Hungarian families, but when they could have helped the families by reducing the rent, you and your faction representatives abstained and were concerned about the profits of the utility companies. Left-wing governments, when they had the opportunity, did not reduce the price of gas and electricity, but increased it to a multiple. During the period of governance of the MSZP, the Hungarian families were one of the most paid in Europe for natural gas. Fidesz, on the other hand, went through the policy of reducing the rent, within which it launched the "Home Gay" programme in September 2014 and, thanks to the programme series of nearly HUF 15 billion funded by the Hungarian budget, the energy efficiency of more than 85 thousand Hungarian households has now improved. Honourable Congressman, The relevant rules of the European Union do not allow direct private use of the resources of the 2014-2020 programming period, contrary to any statement to the contrary. The standard setting out the framework for EU aid is clear: a natural person can only be a beneficiary for the resources of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The government's clear decision to implement energy modernisations in such a way that it is in the best interest of as many people as possible. Therefore, using EU funds, we will primarily implement the energy modernisation of Community facilities and institutions. This does not, of course, mean that we do not continue to support the population in implementing their own - and we agree on that - investments in efficiency that are important for energy management as a whole. Within the framework of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, we intend to use a significant HUF 100 billion for residential energy efficiency, with the government providing a publicly supported structure for the modernisation of private property in a virtually interest-free structure. I ask you to appreciate my answer, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Csaba Tóth if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, I can appreciate your answer, but unfortunately I can't accept it, because I didn't expect that answer either, along with millions of Hungarian families. Many millions of Hungarian families are waiting for the answer that there will be non-refundable subsidies for energy efficiency investments, because this is the way to achieve a real reduction in the costs. After all, we know that the cheapest energy we don't consume is the cheapest. Hungarian families get this if they can upgrade their current unconventional properties in some way and receive some kind of source support for this. You know that 85 percent of Hungarian families do not have any savings, so they will not be able to use interest-free support, because only 11 percent of those who should use it said that they might be able to borrow for this purpose. So we continue to expect them to receive, and yes, to be a non-refundable EU resource for energy efficiency investment in Hungarian homes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-68	Thank you. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr.Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor. [[15.40]]
u2015-11-16-69	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of 2012, based on the idea of Antal Rogán, the settlement government bond was introduced, which was not entrusted to foreign representations, but mostly to offshore companies. By the way, the distribution companies were approved by the Economic Commission led by Antal Rogán, and most of them are registered in countries that can be called tax havens: Cayman Islands, Singapore, Malta, Cyprus. But if this were not enough, the Hungarian State would sell the bonds at discount prices to intermediary companies, so that the difference between the nominal value and the actual exchange rate can remain with the selling companies. And that's what the commission of around EUR 45-60 thousand per person wishing to settle comes to realize, but we have also heard in the press about EUR 70,000 in mediation fees, because these companies can determine the amount of commission, which is completely incomprehensible regulation in a monopolistic market. The specific figures are also very interesting, as HUF 205 billion was transferred from the sale of government bonds to the Hungarian State, while approximately HUF 50-60 billion could be generated by intermediary companies with mostly offshore backgrounds, which represents a combined commission level of more than 25 per cent in a monopoly market. It's a huge business, but it's not mostly for the Hungarian state. The answer to questions that arise is that they are not public money, since those wishing to settle pay the commission with their own money. This is a lying interpretation of the law, because the Hungarian State is selling the right of establishment, selling a discount, the income of which can be considered as public money, as in the case of a concession contract. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State to answer the following questions sincerely. What has been achieved from the promises of a sound job creation of the emission programme? Do you consider it acceptable that most of the ownership of the companies entrusted with the sale is unknown, that there is no tax paid in Hungary, but you can still fill your pockets from the exclusive sale of a state discount? Do you have a statement of how much commission the sales companies have landed from selling government bonds in their pockets, and if not, are they planning to make a similar statement? Finally, do you not think that the whole program is purely a hotbed of corruption, making it feel like it was invented in the first place? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-70	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State, to reply.
u2015-11-16-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You probably don't have all the information when you put your interpellation question, so let me start from the end. He says it's a hotbed of corruption. Let us be clear that this is a well-known, internationally recognised method for a state to invest in finance and try to attract capital and capital to the country itself. Several countries, European Union countries, have done similar practices, much sooner than Hungary, and it is no secret that Hungary, studying these practices, took over and in 2012 created the law in this regard. I would like to stress that the procedure is legally regulated and that the procedure is completely open, so when a company is running in this tender, it is doing so in an open procedure, and it is indeed the Economic Committee of Parliament that decides whether to accept its application under these very strict conditions or not to accept it. I think you are mistaken when you say that these companies are not known from a ownership background, because one of the conditions for the application is to know the owners and to make a separate statement about this in case the documents do not reveal this. So it's not true that they don't have a known ownership background. In his interpellation, it is not a real claim that public funds are being squandered and transferred to private hands. On the contrary, these companies bring resources to Hungary, which they involve from a foreign individual, thereby purchasing government bonds and participating in the financing of the country. Indeed, these government bonds are sold at discount prices, while no special interest is paid on those securities. The fact that the nominal value of the government bond is paid only after five years is particularly beneficial to the State, since these securities cannot be sold, so the Hungarian State can count on the fact that for five years it can essentially use this money to finance the State. I think that when you talk about corruption, it is actually incomprehensible, because the Hungarian state is only related to one company when it sells the government bond, and from then on this company - which may be foreign - is connected to the private eye, of course. Therefore, your question of whether the Hungarian State has a record of how much profit they are making, as you can't say that it is the companies themselves that determine the agency fees and fees. Obviously, the Hungarian State has no say in this, since these are private assets and private capitals. It is therefore incomprehensible what kind of public resources, public money you are talking about, or a requirement for the government, which I think, in this regard, since the private person and the company in question are in agreement on the market, cannot be interpreted. The fact that it is not handled by agencies: first of all, this company must have a right to issue securities, international experience, an appropriate office, language skills [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And with enough capital to propagate this, and then it'll be worth it to him later. So I think that at international level, the current Hungarian residency bond system is still in place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-72	Thank you very much. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-73	Mr. Secretary. You didn't deny anything I said. He did not say what jobs had been created by the programme - I do not think that in Europe, for example, companies in the Cayman Islands would participate in these programmes, if so, then Europe is also deeper in corruption than we imagined - and he did not say whether these 25 percent commissions were a lot. The government and Parliament could have determined how much commission can be paid in such arrangements. The fact that they didn't create a hotbed of corruption in itself. You may know who the real owners are, we unfortunately do not, and that cannot be said by the opposition. So please share it with us and tell us who are really behind this because I don't think - and you didn't deny it - that 50-60 billion dollars of business will just be thrown out the window and given to companies in the Cayman Islands, that's not typical of you. Thank you. I can't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-74	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2015-11-16-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As early as March this year, the Hungarian government's economic policy measures were confirmed by the fact that at that time Standard & Poor's rating agency had classified Hungary as an additional category of BB. In addition, the prospect of this new classification was stable, which analysts then thought was expected to re-assess this autumn. The domestic economic policy and policy measures have brought their fruits, as Moody and international rating agencies have improved Hungary's credit rating outlook from stable to positive. In the context of the current decision, the credit rating agency underlined that Hungary's public debt is sustainable, thus decreasing in a predictable way, the budget deficit has been below 3 per cent for several years, and that the debt structure is increasing with the presence of domestic currency. [[15.50]] Thus, two of the three main institutions, Fitch and Moody, maintain a positive view of Hungary, indicating the potential for upgrading. Balance in fiscal and economic policy can stimulate growth and bank lending in Hungary. The latter, in particular, in the light of the fact that the rate of the bank tax has decreased. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary's rating rating influences the decisions of those wishing to invest in our country, thus affecting the country's economic situation. What steps will the government take to get Hungary into the investment recommendation category as soon as possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-76	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-11-16-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I think that the answer to this interpellation is the government's last five-year economic policy itself, because it could also be answered that the government will do what it has done in the last five years: by serving Hungarian interests, creating jobs and encouraging economic growth, it will make decisions. The Hungarian government had a long way to go to recognise the performance of Hungary, the performance of Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy, because at the beginning there was little reason for the Hungarian government to follow and recognise, because they usually criticized the Hungarian way, the Hungarian reforms, which have now proven that they are operational. Not only credit rating agencies but other international organisations now recognise our country's performance and economic policy, so the European Union will change forecasts positively and upwards. Thus, the IMF, which has been thanked for its banking and social policy services in Hungary, has also praised the Hungarian economy, and the OECD international organisation has also appreciated the performance of the Hungarian economy. However, it is true that it is important what credit rating agencies say, since investors usually monitor these assessments, and if not on this basis, it affects their decisions to take their capital to which country, to which country to invest, to create working capital, to build factories. This year is particularly good for the country, because as you said, Standard and Poor also provided a positive view of Hungary's achievements, which gives us a good chance that Hungary will be transferred to an investment category in one of the qualifying institutions this year. This is a very interesting thing, because it is easy to be qualified by the rating agencies, from almost one month to the next, but for the qualification, for the positive result, Hungary has to fight very hard, and a country has to fight, and Hungary has reached the gate. Indeed, it is, as you said, that its macro-economic indicators are excellent, the sovereign debt path is falling, foreign exchange debt is falling, the pace of economic growth is sustainable and is expected to be sustainable, and it will be above the EU average in the coming years. Hungary's external vulnerability is decreasing, so our resilience has improved significantly. The Hungarian economy has become significantly more impact-resistant, and the shocks and tensions of emerging markets no longer shake the Hungarian economy. We therefore have the right to hope that the Fitch Ratings London analysts have stated in their latest material that, in addition to Portugal, Hungary is among the odds to regain its recommended rating for investment, this is real, and we hope that it will happen this month. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Hollik if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I accept the State Secretary's reply, because the Minister of State's reply confirmed that the government has done everything in the previous term and in the last year to transfer Hungary to the category recommended for investment. He fixed the country's finances, put the budget deficit below three percent. More importantly, it has created an investment-friendly environment that encourages both domestic investors and international investors to set up new businesses in Hungary. It is also apparent that as a result of the government's work and economic policy, Europe's growth engine will be Central Europe and Hungary within it. We hope that the credit rating agencies will recognise this in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-80	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Készés, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:, Will the government resign from the development of the Veszprém ring? It's an address. It's up to Congressman Zoltán.
u2015-11-16-81	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It's a rare pleasure for me to agree with the government. The Cabinet writes in the Hungarian Gazette of 14 April 2014, in the 53rd issue that the 8th main road belongs to the priority projects, its national economic significance is outstanding for the country and Transdanubia. At regional level, it creates an important innovation connection on the Székesfehérvár-Várpalota-Veszprém-Körmend-Austria axis. The development and modernisation of Highway 8 provides development for the region and plays a key role in the safe operation of the tourist traffic to Lake Balaton. By upgrading the road, the high-speed, homogeneous main road between Székesfehérvár 8 is created. That's a great idea, especially when they're being followed. On Route 8, the handover celebrations have hit each other lately, making it look like road construction is raging. I've already been initiated east of Veszprém, initiated west. Now the question is whether there will be an initiation between the two, on the south side of the county seat. According to the Government decision No 1240/2014, there will be a development, as it ordered HUF 1.14 billion to prepare the four-banding work of the southern branch of Veszprém. Then came January 30, 2015, when the surprise hit the Veszprémians that they were promised money again. I can't say it was a pleasant surprise, because at that time the works were nearing completion, to the right of the city, to the left, we wanted to see results, not promises. But let's see what we got. By its decision of 1031/2015 the government took 805 million forints from the bypass budget of the Castle and Castle Palace in Fehérvár, and gallantly threw it at the Veszprémi, so it was already available for the preparation of the works. Dear Secretary of State, Despite the amount to be prepared for almost $2 billion, I have to ask you: will there be an investment? There is a rumor in the city that the Veszprém bypasser will not be built by the government, that he has renounced it; that he has renounced the Veszprémians, and with them the tens of thousands who are on this very critical route from Western Europe in the summer to the shore of Lake Balaton to spend their money there. Sir, Route 8 is the driving force of the country's transport, tourism, economic infrastructure. The Veszprém bypass is the most sensitive point. Is that what you're missing from development? This region makes a significant contribution to the country's economic results. Route 8 offers enormous potential for development for businesses, municipalities and citizens here, but the downfall of 8 is more of a competitive disadvantage [[Interviews from the benches of Fidesz, including Dr. Peter Hoppál: What are you talking about?]] the competition of Győr, Komárom and Fejér county. Mr. Secretary, we're not expecting a promise from you. It's all over the attic. We are not asking for the transfer of promised development resources to others. We ask you to work in the spirit of the Government decision cited above; we ask you to state that the bypasser is being built. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Four lanes...]] And please give me a date, the date on which we can first proceed to the four-track Esprém bypass. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Just the truth!]]
u2015-11-16-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The southern bypass road in Veszprém will also be built, as will be the construction of Route 8 between Székesfehérvár and Veszprém, which is part of the trans-European network, and on which, as you said, we have been and have been able to attend a ceremony of dedication several times. It can take place at eight paces, and the sixth pace of this is the South of Veszprém bypass. But here let me remember that there are few cities in Hungary like Veszprém, which can be completely avoided for several decades. So, a long time ago, Veszprém's bypass was built to lead transit traffic, but it is true that the two lanes of the south have not yet taken place. [[16.00]] Otherwise, there is a high level of road connection between the two county seats, with two two lanes, without physical separation, and a highway can be considered as a highway. What is important is that we have to naturally give the reason why it stopped, at least at the moment it seems to be the way it is done. It is also because the transport operational programme has prepared the investment. The licence holder's plans have been completed, the export plans have been completed, but they have to be closed, as by the end of the year the amount used to prepare the tied resources must also be closed, and we are now naturally searching for resources. True, for the moment, we do not have the source background that would allow us to start immediately, but we are naturally working on it. However, it must be pointed out that Highway 8 is important for everyone who lives in the region, just like all other connecting roads, all the main roads that form part of the trans-European network. I just wanted to remind you of what happened in the eight beats. The Western bypass of Székesfehérvár, which will solve the load relief of the village of Feketehegy, is expected to be completed in 2018. The first phase of the Castle Palace bypass will be completed in 2017. We will start the second phase next year, and we will finish it in 2018. As I'm sure you've heard, I was there in the section between Pétfürdő-Hajmáskér and I was able to hand over the investment, and a stretch of 6.5 kilometers was built otherwise. The fourth phase of this section was the node number 72 in Hajmáskér, which has also been completed since then. Stage five was the node 72 of Highway 8, which was completed in 2009. As of 2007, this investment is feared. Veszprém, as I said, is part of the program number six. And in this, you may or may not know it, but I'll help you keep some thoughts about the technical condition. We're gonna build several separate levels of nodes, and there's gonna be two kilometers of noise barrier. We're breaking up a bridge, and we might even have a pedestrian sidewalk built. More importantly, we're planning the investment here at 110. And let me tell you further, the bypass section of Mark 7, has already been built, and the section between Marko and Herend has been completed. So out of eight beats, they're all finished in two or three, five have already been completed, and I'm very confident that the south side of Veszprém will also be completed. Once again, many Hungarian cities could envy the circumstances, but naturally we strive to complete the existing bypass. It would be very important that every single time I pay attention to the huge work behind the announcements. For example, 200,000 cubic meters of earth work was carried out on the section between Pétfürdő-Hajmáskér, 20,000 cubic metres of asphalt was built and 25,000 meters of barrier was completed. These are big numbers, a lot of people's work, a lot of common ground. We hope to continue work in Veszprém soon. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Zoltán Készép to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-11-16-85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In the end, I asked you a date to give me a date on when you'll be ready. I don't accept your answer. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Oh!]] I'm glad you listed the same thing I said you've built on the right and on the left of Veszprém. Veszprém is one of the county seats that can't be reached by highways. And I suppose you also missed the fact that a public forum was held in Veszprém a few weeks ago, where one of the NIF's colleagues said, "The last few days, a letter from the Ministry of Development arrived. In connection with this ring, we have been ordered to allow the completion of the preparation this year, but we have been suspended for the time being. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So the thing is, you either don't know what you're saying, what one of your colleagues is saying, or you're deliberately misleading the public. The Veszprém people want to know the truth. Thank you very much, I don't accept the answer.
u2015-11-16-86	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 98 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: a work-based society without workers? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-11-16-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, While there are more than half a million unemployed in this country along with public workers, more and more professions are becoming short-staffed overnight due to a continuing shortage of labour. In the past, it was only in skilled jobs that companies could not find labour, but now we are talking about the fact that there is an increasing number of job vacancies in this country that are not qualified. There's thousands of shortage of engineers, shopkeepers, bakers, drivers, office administrators, and I could continue the line. According to KSH data, for example, 5,000 people are missing from trade, while 34,000 jobseekers whose last jobs were in trade are registered. And let me quote a union leader who said that now everyone who lives and moves is hired. The reason for this is that wages are extremely low in this country, Hungarian wages cannot be made, so people try to go where they can get wages that can cover their daily livelihoods and provide for their families. We are now at the point that Auchan's recently 4200 employees simply increased their salary by an average of 10 percent and justified this decision by the fact that there is no other way to keep the workforce. Here we are, these companies already admit that they are either technically raising wages, or there will be no man who will do the work that needs to be done at the right level. Now we are there, and I see that it is the Hungarian government alone that does not understand how bad the situation is in this country. [[Intercom from the benches of Fidesz: Skandalum...]] I agree with my fellow Member that it is Skandalum. I'm so sorry to hear you say that funny. The many Hungarian citizens who work for hunger in this country do not want to listen to this arrogance for long. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Harder!]] The man who is there and works for zero forints, and then rather decides to go abroad to really, Skandalum. I agree, my fellow Member, Skandalum. [[György Balla's intervention.]] I expect the Secretary of State to say that this is Skandalum, and I expect Fidesz-KDNP to finally start raising wages. I find it outrageous that some people are making jokes here, while I am talking about the fact that there are missing trades, because there is no Hungarian man to do the job! [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] Dear Secretary of State, We have a huge catch-up in terms of net minimum wage, not only from Western countries, but also in the region. Perhaps you do not find this as funny as your colleagues, that we are now in the vicinity of Montenegrin and Serbian levels. The net Hungarian minimum wage has already been passed by the Slovak, Czech, Croatian, and Polish, and while you are putting the propaganda machine to the top, you already have a minister, who is responsible for this, we cannot talk about the catch-up or even increase our break-off. I can clearly see that the government is silent in this regard, and I do not know if you have any plans to start a pay gap in this country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do you have any specific plans for this situation? What...
u2015-11-16-88	Thank you very much...
u2015-11-16-89	...your position on raising the minimum wage? [[György Balla: Are you calm?]]
u2015-11-16-90	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2015-11-16-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You won't hear the word "skandalum" from me, but I'd like to draw your attention to it, but you just said that like you were a propagandaist, and you're trying to convey some kind of propaganda that pleases people, because everything you've said is almost the opposite. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] The fact that the performance of the Hungarian economy is gradually improving, the number of people employed is increasing, the real wage is increasing and the minimum wage is increasing has probably escaped her attention. Thus, it can be said that we are talking about a lasting increase in employment. And I would like to point out that we are not talking about public employment and not about those who work in other jobs and foreign jobs, but about those who have been in the competition sector, because since the 2010 government change, more than 330 thousand people have worked in the competition sector in Hungary by 332 thousand. This, of course, goes hand in hand with the contraction of the available workforce reserve, and businesses find it more difficult to find the right workforce, which they want. [[16.10]] It should also be remembered that jobseekers with less professional experience are those who find it more difficult to find work in the competition sector, because unfortunately employers do not rush for them. It must also be said frankly that the claims regarding the extent of the shortage of labour are extremely exaggerated, what you said is likely to have gathered these data from some part of the domestic press. On average, only about one-and-a-half percent of social enterprises report a monthly labour demand for the public employment service and, according to KSH data, less than 30 thousand vacant positions were held in the second quarter of 2015. Let's face it, compared to nearly 4.3 million employees, this is not a huge number. I think that she should seriously reconsider her opinion when she alone makes the government responsible for the quality of domestic wages. It must be made clear that the wages of the majority of workers are those of employers, and the government does not have a direct role to play in this. In this sector, wages are determined by the supply and demand conditions of the labour market, by the ability of businesses to bear costs, and by the bargaining of workers and employers. Of course, the wages of the competition sector are of particular importance to the government, which is why we are creating a forum for employers' and employees' sides to agree on, for example, the minimum wage. Obviously, those involved in these negotiations consider it an important task to address, and do so, the many changing labour market conditions and the labour shortages in each area. The government is also interested in increasing the minimum wage. However, I find it misleading that she spoke about the absence of the Hungarian net minimum wage. On the one hand, a realistic comparison can only be made on a purchasing power basis, which shows, by the way, that we are in the middle of Europe, especially among the Central European states. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind that the single-key tax system also takes account of the number of dependants through family tax relief, as a result of which families raising children are barely paying taxes as workers, i.e. often receiving wages for a worker [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's almost the same as his gross salary. On average, real wages increased by 10 percent between 2010 and 2014 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So the thoughts that Congresswoman has shared with us here will not stand the test of reality. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-92	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, I cannot accept your answer. You know, I have a lot to say, but let's settle for one thing: in the public sector, wages have been frozen for seven years, and double standards do exist, with the reference to good economic performance, they doubled the basic wages of the state executives, and the big premiums have been included in the basic wage, saying that you are afraid that the market will absorb them. This is where they were worried about the exodus. But what about the people who aren't in the lead, and they're carrying this country on their backs? Don't you worry about their salary, Mr. Secretary, you and your ministry? You know, what I see is that the work of a minimum wage civil servant is 50 times, 100 times less than that of the leader, and I think, Mr. Secretary, that propaganda must be completed here and now, and wages must start to be raised. As long as the minimum wage doesn't exceed the minimum wage, if you look at the net, in this country, you have no right to start polishing yourself when it comes to wages. Half the taxpayers work for these wages, 4 million people in this country [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You don't get what you need to make a living. I don't accept your answer. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-11-16-94	Thank you very much. Since you did not accept the answer, I ask the Parliament whether you will accept the State Secretary's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:. What can you tell us about the experience of the Balaton 2015 exercise so far? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2015-11-16-95	Dear Secretary of State, EU border legislation is based on the protection of external borders from the Schengen area by Member States with an EU external border. For a long time, members without an external border, such as Germany, have enjoyed the benefits of eliminating internal border surveillance, resulting from the expansion of free movement and the functioning of the internal market, so they have not been very concerned with border protection, because it has not been a task for them so far. However, there is now a threat to the Schengen system. While the EU calls for a common European solution and forced the quota system for the distribution of refugees to the Member States, we Hungarians see that there is no point in talking about the distribution of immigrants, because on the one hand it does not solve the uncontrolled flow of immigration flows and it creates new problems. I ask the migrants who would be deployed in Hungary, but they originally left for Germany from Syria or from anywhere else, what means will it be possible to make them stay. It is also apparent from previous events that the distribution of migrants on the basis of quotas is not realistic, not to mention those who are not granted status. Brussels has no right to force us to a solution that we do not want. It is pointless because it is an invitation to millions more and dangerous to European cultural identity. In addition, the Hungarian population made clear during the national consultation that Hungary must be protected from the problems caused by illegal immigrants or from a possible disaster. We have now turned again to Hungarian citizens to support the government of Hungary in taking action against the compulsory resettlement quota. By signing the petition, Hungarian citizens, who are also European citizens, can declare that it is unacceptable for them to decide who we want to live with outside Hungary. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear Secretary of State, Excellent, the way the Hungarian law enforcement agencies handled the refugee flood. Hungary has shown clearly step by step that this situation can be dealt with, and despite the sharp criticisms, many European countries are already using Hungarian solutions. Of course, cooperation on migration actions is also taking place on an international stage, which Hungary has always been open to, because a lasting solution can only be created by a wide range of international cooperation. Illegal border crossings must be stopped at the external borders of Europe, it is unreasonable that in the narrow sea area between Greece and Turkey, instead of legitimity, people smugglers rule and turn Europe's life upside down for their benefit. The Greek state border could be properly guarded by a European quota. On the Hungarian side, we indicated earlier that this is one of the most critical points in the management of the refugee flood, but there was no consensus on this issue. We are already hearing opinions on recent EU consultations that only joint action at the Greek borders can help, so Greece should be called upon if it refuses to perform its task. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] allow the EU Member States to assist in border surveillance. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what concrete steps have been taken. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the military exercise carried out by the European Member States. Thank you.
u2015-11-16-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. Mr. Congressman, I'll include in your time frame the time you've just used in replying. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-16-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When, a few months ago, it seemed that the flood of immigrants arrived at the borders of Hungary uncontrollably and unstoppably, and passed through Hungary, the Hungarian government followed its own beliefs, but, of course, listening to and hearing the opinion of the Hungarian people, decided that Hungary's borders, which are also the borders of the European Union, should be protected, and decided that a temporary border closure should be built, but, in addition to the completion of the border closure, it became necessary to strengthen border patrol with military force, with the service of the Homeds. [[16.20]] At present, in cooperation with the police, some 4,000 soldiers serve to protect the borders of our country, and we can safely say that this cooperation is exemplary, exemplary and effective. Just as we wish to act effectively and exemplaryly and exemplaryly when we also listen to the opinion of the Hungarian people, we protest and do not accept the compulsory resettlement quota, which, according to the Juncker calculation, would allow an immigrant to arrive in Hungary with the same number of immigrants as the size of the city of Szeged. Over the last few months, the technical border closure and related measures have led to a reduction in the number of migrants, and in this task the Hungarian Defence Agency has enriched with comprehensive crisis management experience, which we are attempting to transfer to those countries who, in the most difficult situation, have assured us of their solidarity. We are doing this to make Europe aware of Hungary's extraordinary efforts in dealing with the disaster, and we are also doing it because in recent years we have seen in the economic crisis and now in the immigration crisis that European countries are first vigorously protesting and attacking Hungary for the measures introduced, and then when they see that the Hungarian model is working, the measures are effective and work, they are applied and taken over. This is how we see it in the building of the fence, Slovenia and Austria are building their own fence. By decision, the government authorised the training of Balaton 2015 to be carried out by a total of a thousand foreign soldiers, so from 15 October an international training task will be carried out in connection with border police activities in order to deal with the crisis caused by mass immigration, policemen and soldiers from the countries of the four Visegrad countries, who have been asked to cooperate. This gives us the opportunity to expand our cooperation, not only with military but also with other political cooperation. This joint training responds to the challenges posed by the changed security environment, as the participation of the Visegrád countries in the Balaton 2015 exercise reflects not only one country but also the position of an entire region in dealing with the immigration crisis and protecting the Schengen borders. I would also like to thank both the police and the soldiers for their exemplary service in contributing to the security of our country with respect, endurance and dedication to their country and their profession. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-98	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-11-16-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I accept the answer, I accept it because I think that in this situation, which we have seen on Friday, it is particularly important to have cooperation, a cooperation that can ensure our protection, ensure the protection of our country, protect our borders, the Balaton 2015 exercise served this purpose. The cooperation of Central European countries has been exemplary, and I wish that preparedness, dedication and expertise that are typical of these soldiers will continue to remain, and we wish all soldiers good strength and health. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The heated stadium is more important than the starving children and the needy families? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2015-11-16-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The issue of child hunger has upset the government. Several pro-government politicians have turned against an initiative that they initially supported with a long-lost anger and opposition. They also argued with numbers, with the fact of hunger for children and with the real aim of fighting the opposition. According to Viktor Orbán, everything is all right, the children are eating four times already. And János Lázár announced that he would eat four times from 2017 and, by the way, passed on the responsibility to the parents. So, there's a lot of confusion here. During the heated debates, the Hungarian Socialist Party presented a concrete bill for the eradication of child hunger. Perhaps this and the national minimum proposal classified by Péter Harrach as a left-wing campaign goal were due to the government's later submission of a bill. It seems, therefore, useful that the left is flying on the subject of child poverty. The government's proposal still doesn't solve the issue of child hunger. I would like to mention three problems, Mr. Secretary. 1. The holiday meal will not be due to every child in need, but to a narrower circle. It is also feared that the meals of children living in poverty will have to be supplemented by self-reliance by municipalities that are not able to provide adequate social services to poor families living there. 2. The government's proposal is that in the autumn, winter and spring holidays, it is enough to provide meals for only two days. What about the other days, Mr. Secretary? But even summer meals are shortened from 54 days to 43 days. 3. There are still no weekends, even though tens of thousands of children's meals on weekends are not guaranteed in Hungary today. There is no mention of this in the proposal. The government should increase the family allowance, maternity allowance, the child, the child's amount or the pension minimum for the eighth year of next year. We have tabled a number of proposals for this in recent months. However, with the government's proposal on this subject just now, it merely refers to childcare benefits. That's all the government could afford to support poorer families. Millions of people live under the minimum living standards, hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today. These are the facts that we need to say and which we need to draw attention to. Just to quote Zoltán Balog, because there is a world in which we have to speak such a language. Secretary of State, will there be money for the holiday meal of every child in poverty? How and when will the government support children living in poverty on weekends? Is it really more important to heat the turf of the stadium upstairs, Mr. Secretary of State? [[Interview from Fidesz: Demagog, demagog!]] When will family allowances, children, children, children and children in need be raised? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-11-16-102	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-16-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If the Hungarian Socialist Party should once rise from the level of opposition demands and promises to the level of government performance, it is certain that it would get political Kesony disease, because simply, when you are on the government, they will tolerate all of this, they will not take any measure to substantially improve the situation of the poor or the situation of those suffering from deprivation, and when they are not on government, they will come up with such demands. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If there were still a socialist government in Hungary today and Fidesz-KDNP had not taken over the responsibility of government in 2010, there would still be 225 thousand less kindergartens and cradles for free three times a day in kindergartens and cradles than those who are receiving free meals from 1 September this year, as Fidesz-KDNP was the government that raised the number of children who receive free meals from 92 thousand to 318 thousand in kindergartens and kindergartens. This represents 90 percent of the kindergarten-care age group. Fidesz-KDNP was also the government that, unlike you, doubled the budget resources in four years, which could be used for children's meals. I think that everyone in this Parliament already knows these numbers from outside, because you gave HUF 29 billion for this purpose, this year we spend HUF 58 billion, and next year HUF 71 billion is the amount that serves the goals of children's meals. This year's summer was the first summer in a holiday meal where there was not a single municipal aid demand that the government would have rejected. The municipality that asked the government for money for a summer holiday meal and submitted these requests according to the legislation received support from each of them. That is why this year's record was high, 3 billion forints, the amount that we paid for the summer meal, so that nearly 140,000 children received the free daily meals during the summer. These are all results which the MSZP has not achieved from a distance when it was on government itself, and when it is in opposition, it can only make demands, but not sensible proposals. [[16.30]] In order not to say that when it came to voting on these items in the Budget Act, these items were not voted by the Socialist Party as well as other positive items in the budgets. Then it wasn't that important to you at the time. To quote you, the MSZP is now flying on the subject of child hunger. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I said it in quotes!]] I think that's the honest half sentence that expresses the fact that you consider this to be a kind of campaign tool, a kind of good political theme. Since the MSZP didn't really have any other subject left, it couldn't really point the unit out, so it was looking for such a topic. Madam Member, we are not talking about a topic here, but about results, measures where Fidesz-KDNP was able to help children suffering real deprivation, whether during summer holidays or during the year. Our next task, which you talked about, is to ensure that not only during summer holidays, but also during winter, spring and autumn holidays, the children to whom the social meal was delivered during the summer, who received multiple breakfasts, brunches, lunches and snacks on a daily basis. The reason why we can provide an additional HUF 1.5 billion in the next year's budget is because of the fact that the Hungarian economy is performing better, that the Hungarian reforms are working well, there is already enough to provide support to these children. And you know very well that parents also have more money, as there are many more people working in Hungary, and they can feed their children on their wages, we hope, as often as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-104	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-11-16-105	I don't accept it, Mr. President. The HUF 1.5 billion is still half as much as the one-and-a-half for heating the lawn of the high street stadium. But, Mr Secretary of State, Gabriella Selmeczi, Márius Révész, Péter Harrach, János Lázár, Lajos Kósa and Viktor Orbán's comments on child hunger, we thought that there was nothing lower. There is, Mr. Secretary. Zsuzsa Hegedűs, Prime Minister's Chief Advisor, said that poor families don't actually starve because he thinks parents steal, if they have to. And he added that in a needy family with no alcohol or drug problems, children would not be fed between 4:00 and the next morning. Zsuzsa Hegedűs said this for a million forints a month, who receives 1 million forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money each month, and Audi and his own dog in the country. Well, that's the kind of insult a man has never done to Hungarian citizens! I don't accept the answer.
u2015-11-16-106	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novák, Jobbik Group, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: how does the people in Viktor Orbán's environment remove the country's money? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor. [[Noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats; the basic noise in the room is very loud.
u2015-11-16-107	Dear Secretary of State, It is certainly well-known to Minister, but also to the entire wallet, it seems that they do not seem to be disturbed, and perhaps even interested in the fact that the National Intellectual Property Office of Miklós Benjel, the SZTNH, commonly known as the Patent Office, refers hundreds of millions of forints of public money each year to a Kft called Hipavilon. In this cft. that the state is not represented by Miklós Benjel. Some of the public funds transferred will then end up in the pocket of Miklós Benzsel's colleagues, and there is also contractual evidence. This could also be called the usual lower-level doggie, and it could be assumed that, in the meantime, the laws on confidentiality would not be violated, and Hungarian patents would not suffer. It is also well known to the Ministry that the number of Hungarian patent applications has reached a low 50 years old, but it does not seem to bother him. This means one test per month for years, broken down by patent examiners. The problem is, even with so few patent applications, the office has accumulated three years' backlog of two thousand cases because they are conducting patent examinations in Singapore during working hours. The bigger problem is that Hipavilon Kft. As a sub-contractor, he entered the patent investigation without being authorised to carry out legal activities or carrying out business work according to his articles of incorporation. But the relevant law and government decree allow him only to carry out public service activities; let us add, Hungarian, of course, and not Singapore. How is it possible, after all this, that while the SZTNH has set a four-month time limit for Singapore, the examination of national patent applications takes years, sometimes 15-20 years, and only the backlog is more than three years. The biggest problem is that Hipavilon Kft. He also finances some of Miklós Benzsel's colleagues, as if they were doing the tests in Singapore in their spare time. On average, the examination of one patent application per government official per month takes two days on the basis of international data, so the accumulated three-year backlog makes it difficult to believe the story of leisure Singapore investigations, which is also referred to by the SZNH. In my opinion, the public money that is due to the state is making private money on this road, so we are facing a fidesz money laundromat. Mr. Secretary, how long are you going to put up with this? This is my most important question, which I also submitted in interpellation. When do you intend to make use of your statutory duty of supervision? Miklós Benzsel said that 1500 cases in Singapore are being investigated every year; this is two and a half times more than the Hungarian announcements. According to Minister, this is done by government officials in their spare time. Isn't it strange for you that, in your spare time, the examiners work two and a half times as much as they do on the job? Isn't it weird for the Minister that, although they're barely working hours, they still have a backlog of 2,000 cases? That's what I'd expect to hear from you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Interpellation is an important tool of the Members of Parliament, and I therefore regret to notice that the institution is used as a political marketing tool by the Member, giving his interpellation a sensational title that does not cover its content, but is capable of misleading voters. The Member refers to his written question on the same subject, which was answered in September, but, in relation to his interpellation, he fails to take into account what was stated in the answer to the question. It does not mention that the government considers the promotion of innovation related to domestic businesses as a priority. In recent years, the government has adopted the national R &amp; D and innovation strategy, established the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, paying particular attention to supporting medium and small enterprises. The terms of the Member's interpellation should be clarified in a number of respects. First of all, in relation to the patent authorisation procedure, it should be clarified that this process is a complex process that lasts for several years around the world. A significant part of the duration of the procedure is not a unilateral examination of the Office but is available to the notifier. The net lead times of national notifications, i.e. ignoring the time spent waiting for the customer's response, were 23 months in 2014, according to the notification by the National Intellectual Property Office in Hungary, including the 18-month mandatory waiting period for publication required by law. So it does not correspond to the reality of the Member's claim that the examination of national patent applications takes years. Secondly, as indicated in the reply to the written question, the staff involved in the assessment of patents cannot be ignored to have other tasks, such as responsibility for the plant variety right, the supplementary protection certificate for carrying out R &amp; D certification tasks. Thirdly, the two thousand cases referred to by the Member are not a setback to the Member's statement, but the number of cases pending. Fourthly, in carrying out the activities of the Singaporen office, the SZTNH only involves Hipavilon Nonprofit Kft., which is owned by the Hungarian State by 100% of the total part of its tasks. The legal background for their cooperation is provided for in the Patent Protection Act for Inventions and the Government Decree on the National Body Against Falsification. I also confirm that according to the data available to the Ministry of Justice, the implementation of the cooperation agreement between the SZTNH and the Singapore Intellectual Property Protection Office does not take precedence over the costs of Hungarian national patents and does not impede the procedures for granting national patents. The two obligations do not exist against each other, but side by side. The levy will be used for the costs and will be realised as a profit, i.e. State revenue and thus the State budget will receive revenue. [[16.40]] You're the kft. It is a non-profit-making organisation and its results cannot be divided and therefore revenue cannot be placed in private pockets in such a way. The Ministry of Justice considers it important to operate legally. The State Audit Office carried out an investigation in the summer of 2015 and the purpose of the audit was to assess whether the ownership decision of the SZTNH and the agreement of the entity were in line with the legal requirements. The on-the-spot phase was completed in August, the Court's report was completed and the draft report was drawn up. I hope that, as has been the case so far, this will bring a reassuring result. If the findings of the audit make it necessary, it will, of course, take all reasonable measures within the supervisory powers of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much for this opportunity and I would like to ask the Member to accept the answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-110	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-111	Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept the bullshit you've been doing, and the slides you've been doing. The fact that you consider the two thousand patent applications corresponding to the three-year amount, to which we add that patent examiners are actually receiving one application per month, that is their capacity to work, and then to say that the two thousand backlog is not a backlog, but is only in progress, is an unacceptable slide. Just as state-owned, of course, is a kft., but what is distributed there to subcontractors, consultancy contracts or even labor fees is not acceptable. [[Dr. Pál Völner: We don't pay rent.]] I think that if we fight job accumulation in politics, we cannot tolerate it here. We have not received any answer at all as to how it explains the need for this company to be legally challenged and why the Patent Office does not carry out these tasks itself. It could have been explained that otherwise public money could not have been private money. In fact, it turned out to be your answer after all. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Who will pay the price for the development of the rescue service at the end? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-11-16-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Under the TIOP 2.2.1, the government set the goal of developing emergency care in 2012. After three years, we are saying that almost none of the goals originally set have been achieved. The biggest challenge for the project is not to have to pay back the EU's allocated funds. The problem has long been known. But you're still pretending that it's okay. In March, they answered our written question that the construction of the station is on schedule, and since it is so simple, we have no reason to doubt that they will be ready by October 2015. Now, let's look at the facts. In October 2015, no more rescue stations were transferred. Some have missing the ambulance garage, the station has been completed elsewhere, but just the right staff has not been recruited. There is a great need for experienced, qualified professionals. However, experience has shown that such workers are intimidated and fired if they dare to speak for some reason and then fill cars with people without adequate qualifications, thus risking people in distress not getting adequate care. According to the news, the ambulance cars didn't arrive, and several ambulances, said to be new, came to the new stations with a run-through of between 50,000 and 80,000 kilometers. How can a new car have two roads around the Earth? The question is who will pay the price of this delay. There are no resources allocated to this in the rescue service budget. However, operating costs cannot be reduced further, since there will be counties where only one second alarm will go out, or workers will be sent, who are already short of them. That is, ultimately, the population, the Hungarian people, pay the price of the failed project. I would like to ask for information on the state of the project, whether all investments and developments have been made and, if not, why the delay has been delayed. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-11-16-114	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation.
u2015-11-16-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As has already been said today, there was a huge need for new ambulances and new rescue stations in 2010, as the previous period has been declining and the purchase of ambulances has ceased for years. In addition, the government not only wanted to work off the disadvantage it inherited, but also wanted to achieve and continue to achieve it, I think that if this project is completed by the deadline this year, we will be closer to getting the ambulance out in Hungary within 15 minutes. This is why the grant contracts were concluded on 3 December 2012 and the project itself started on 1 September 2012, we built and built 22 new rescue stations out of 11 billion forints, and 60 of them are renovated by the National Rescue Service. They also buy 178 new modern ambulances, including, of course, the equipment needed to save them. Some of these ambulances have been purchased. You asked how it is possible that ambulances have already been run to the new rescue stations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and They are not orbiting the Earth, but an average ambulance runs 4614 kilometers per month in Hungary. These ambulances arrived earlier than the stations were completed, several ambulances served at other rescue stations between January and September. When one of the 22 new rescue stations was completed, they were transferred to the new rescue station. If you do the math, in 10 months, the ambulances ran about as much as you said they would. So these were new cars, but as soon as they arrived, because, as I said to you, Hungary was at a disadvantage in hundreds of sizes, there was a lack of ambulances, so we immediately put all cars on duty; ambulances should not be in the garages, but should be involved in the rescue. As has already been said today, 81 of the 82 construction sites took place, 60 renovations and 22 new constructions, only one of which will be completed by 30 November, because the former contractor had to be replaced here, because he did not march, he did not start the construction work. But in all other cases, in the remaining 81 cases, the technical transfer and transfer took place, and, of course, the transfers will be continuous, which will also appear in the press. But this can only happen if these new rescue stations have already been fully put to work. I think there has not been much of a similar degree of development, although there has been a need for this in the previous period. In addition, in the case of training, of course, we have made further improvements in the area of new equipment, the different breathing balloons and other RSI educational tools, which we have acquired from national sources, have been delivered, various video conferencing tools have also been delivered, and they have been covered from national sources. What we have covered from EU funds, the various simulation centres, the so-called skill labs, have also been transported to a large extent. Most of the medical equipment of ambulances, such as a ventilator, an infusion pump, medical instruments are already at the rescue stations, in ambulances, and the rest will be delivered by 15 November according to the contracts. So we can say that there was a degree of improvement here that the emergency services needed. You asked how they were going to be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the last five years, funding for the National Rescue Service has increased from HUF 23 billion to HUF 37 billion. This increased amount of 1.5 times will cover both the recruitment of new stocks and the operation of new rescue stations and the operation of the refurbished 60 rescue stations. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-11-16-117	Mr. Secretary. I can't accept your answer. In fact, the inadequate pace of implementation of the project puts at risk an 11 billion-dollar project, while this is one-third of the total budget of the OMSZ. It would also be significantly felt by the rescue service, including the people, if the European Union still had to pay back from this project. [[16.50]] We believe that people living in small settlements, in the countryside, have the same right to live as in the more infrastructurally developed settlements. It just happened in my little village, they called an ambulance for a man with a stroke, he came from 15 kilometers, but he got there in 30 minutes. So the objectives of the project are really very important, it must be implemented, and finally, here was an excellent opportunity for this project, which you have not been able to live with properly.
u2015-11-16-118	Thank you. Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached our last interpellation today. Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: å Does the sewage mafia work in Budapest? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2015-11-16-119	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The pollution of the Cséry site has been known for many years, yet there is no meaningful, permanent solution to the situation. Today we know quite clearly: since 2011, 9,000 tons of chemicals have been poured into the XVIII. 40 acres of district Cséry site. For three years, a large number of trucks have been on the site daily and, under completely uncontrolled conditions, highly harmful chemicals have been poured directly into the soil-cut trenches. From here the poisons could freely melt into the groundwater, essentially endangering the wells and roads of the inhabitants of the place. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: Circuit soil water and environment are being investigated for several years, but nothing has actually been revealed. To this day, we do not know who the beneficiaries of the toxic mud mafia were, we do not know who the background is, who the customers were, who approved such destruction of South Pest's water and nature. So far, only one thing is certain: the Budapest City Cleanliness and Environment Ltd., which manages the plant. His leader was first replaced, and then, in a sure way, the capital reappointed him for another position. Since the case exploded, the environmental impact of the district seems to be continuing. Soroksarias and XVIII. A multitude of district residents have indicated to me that the Budapest-owned Municipal Cleanliness and Environmental Protection Ltd. is once again on a daily basis in the district. His sniffing cars, and they let something into the ground on the edge of the two districts. Eyewitnesses say that trucks are likely to release their contents into old mines, whatever it is, at any site on the border of the two areas. There seems to be a new industrial level of environmental stress, a few hundred meters from the homes of the citizens, where there have been children, elderly people and adults for years, families exposed to slow, leaking murder poisoning. That is why, with all due respect, Minister, does anyone deal with your wallet or the government's ongoing pollution? What is the position of the wallet on the fact that it is now the fourth year in operation of the 18th century? people in the district, the residents of the Liszt Ferenc airport, Vecsés, Gyál, Pesterzsébet, Csepel, Halásztelek and the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements? Does anyone in the government care about providing an immediate solution to this emergency disaster by using extraordinary government resources? I look forward to Minister's respectful reply.
u2015-11-16-120	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Minister Sándor Fazekas responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-16-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is a very important issue, because we are responsible for the safety of people, for a healthy environment, so that the people of Budapest can live in an environment where they do not have to count on whether their drinking water is contaminated by the soil or the air. And the government and the state offices are committed to this. I also think it is important to talk about these issues with sufficient seriousness and discretion, not to throw words at you, Honourable Parliament, poisoning and all the other expressions that we have heard here from the Members. For example, the poison does not melt. So I would like to reassure Congresswoman that the poison does not melt into the soil - you said so - because they do not carry hot things there. And if you're going to put your head on such an interpellation, I suggest you choose another writer who knows at least from a distance the environment and waste management, at least at the word level. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've taken the point.]] But this is much more important than using it for topical policy purposes, so I would like to say that, in the context of the Cséry site, yes, there is responsibility, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government Office are aware of this important problem, and we are working to ensure that the discharge takes place. Do they carry sewage there? - that's one of the questions. I would like to inform you and reassure you that on the property concerned, the Department of Environment and Nature Protection of the Pest County Government Office held an unannounced on-site inspection on 30 September 2015 to see if any other pollutants are actually carried there. In doing so, it was found that there were no unauthorised waste management activities in the area and there were no indications of this. [[Nándor Gúr takes the notary seat.]] Középvárosi Györgységi és Környezetvédelmi Kft. waste water pumping and transportation and non-contaminated water draining. So it's exactly the other way around. We have taken the steps to free this area, but since it is a serious damage to the environment, there will be a lot of work to be done, many problems, adding that from the 2014 budget chapter of the FM we provided the Municipality of Budapest 100 million HUF for the preparation and implementation of the damage control and restoration plan for the Cséry site, since such a change of soil, such an exemption, obviously you agree. At the same time, we will examine the groundwater contamination of the contaminated area outside the boundaries of the waste body, a geological medium, because an intervention only makes sense if we do not do more damage than profit. By the way, I would like to say that this is obviously also due to soil conditions, because the pollution detected earlier at the Cséry site has no impact on the drinking water bases in its surroundings. They shall be kept under constant review by the Authority. And I would like to reassure everyone, especially the inhabitants of the capital city, that coastal-filtered drinking water wells are at a significant distance from the plant and utilize a layer of water that is deeper than the groundwater supply, as well as the water-producing wells listed in your area for economic or other purposes take water from a deeper layer. This is, of course, a relief for us, but the task is not less, because in the upper layers where this pollution occurred, intervention is required. With regard to the clarification of responsibility, I would like to say that an investigation is under way, and I cannot give you any information about this development. I would therefore like to reassure the congresswoman that the offices are doing their job, that we are doing everything we can to ensure that there is order in this area, that there is a clean environment, that we are releasing the Cséry colony from pollution, but it is very important that we do this with a realistic, sound use of words and without panicking. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-122	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: El!]]
u2015-11-16-123	Dear Minister, Poison, not poison, I expected a more dignified answer from you. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] You don't seem to understand or understand the point of this problem. But most importantly, the residents are annoyed by what's happening there. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: Hundreds of millions of forints worth of hazardous waste was pumped into the district. I'm afraid I'm going to ask Minister where the money is. Today we can't say, and no one can tell us where the hundreds of millions of forints are, which is what Budapest City Purchasing Ltd. is. it has not been used to dispose of hazardous chemical waste. Minister, it would take more money to clean up the soil properly. We've known since the Scented Road that this is very dangerous. So don't engulf yourself in the word magic, you're gonna have to rush the recultivation. Thank you. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-11-16-124	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 108 votes to 30. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the interpellations. We will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions. I would ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber in order to ensure their permanent public service, to do so quietly. [[Some Members leave the Chamber. It's a short break.]] [[17.00]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. It's time for the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When does the EMMI do its job? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Minister for an answer.
u2015-11-16-125	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2015-11-16-126	In that case, the Minister will have to reply at the next second meeting. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-16-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In February 2010, the MSZP government also approved major EU transport projects, the renewal of this section of the railway line Szajol-Püspökladány. After the change of government in 2010, in May 2011, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally sanctioned the decision by which he increased the investment envelope by HUF 24.3 billion. Only a few days later, NIF Zrt. already gave the construction of sections of the railway line to two consortia of the Public Machine. The modernisation of the 70-mile railway line thus cost HUF 161.7 billion instead of HUF 137 billion; if Viktor Orbán did not provide for a harsh increase in the cost envelopes of the railway line, the consortium of the Public Machine could not have received the order. Then, in 2014, when the Orbán.Simicska war started, serious concerns were expressed as to whether this investment would be the same as the M4. But fortunately, on 5 November 2015, the renovation of the Railways of Szajol-Püspökladány was delivered, which you participated in. Dear Minister, Why wasn't László Tasó State Secretary there? Why wasn't Congressman Sándor Bodo there? Why weren't the mayors of the region there? Don't you have the guts to show up with certain people, Minister? Why did you have to separate Desiré? Can you take a train to the gentlemen on a train that the people of Sarret have never seen, but can't even hope to travel on a train like this in the eastern region of the country? Scheduled train, Minister, would have left at 2:08 p.m., would have arrived at Bishop's Lady at 2:52 p.m., and could have taken the scheduled train at 5:08 p.m. and traveled back to Törökszentmiklós in 44 minutes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 17 hours and 52 minutes. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-16-128	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-16-129	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congratulations on this really clever comment and question. I really listened with great interest to how you put together the story of a railroad construction that you didn't deserve to build back in the day. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The Fidesz government stopped it.]] That's why that government has dealt with this task. Obviously you know that I, as Minister of Agriculture, cannot provide you with too much information about the details of the construction and development, but I am sure that the portfolio concerned can provide these data. Now, as for the concrete handover and the questions, it's a special train, and so on: look, I didn't have a special train, only when I was a kid when I had a little model. Was the congresswoman at my model? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: I was there at the handover!]] They didn't give it to me, I built it when I was a kid, so I can't interpret this concept separately. Obviously, if there's a railway investment, which is the country's biggest railway investment, as much as it hurts you, but it's been done, it's been prepared for 15-20 years, I think a dignified dedication ceremony has its place. And there are, obviously, parliamentary representatives of the region, the leaders of the companies, the leaders of the MÁV. I'm sorry, I was a guest there as a congressman. So that's all I can say, if you want more information, you can ask for the protocol list, interpel the wallet that's responsible for this, and obviously you'll give me the information. Obviously, the honourable Member likes to pick on me about why I got there, but I was a guest, and I would like to signal that at this train transfer. Just as guests were mayors and representatives of the affected areas, whom I have otherwise met. Allow me to answer, I can't comment on why certain State Secretarys, Members or Mayors didn't leave after I don't know if they were invited, and I'm not sure that this is a nationwide matter, I don't know why they stayed behind. But it is important that the investment is completed, it is extremely important for the Hungarian countryside, the Sarret, the Nagykunság. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] It's important, anyway, if that's what you're arguing about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-130	Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2015-11-16-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Well, I haven't met many mayors, and I haven't met one of ours, besides Imre Dombi, the Bishop's Lady mayor. By the way, Minister, have you seen the change of schedule that appeared on Friday? But how could you have seen that if you were travelling, you'd get a special train? [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] I suppose you remember the Silver Arrow; you still have to remember that, you know what I'm talking about. [[János Lázár: Na-na-na!]] According to the change of timetable, you are now reducing the number of trains travelling by more than 6 percent. Six percent! They're renovating the railroads, and then they're shutting down the flights? What are we talking about? ! He came there solemnly, and as a minister he did well, although a sentence was said that in Bishop's Lady it was announced that he was a Member of Parliament in the region. I told you in the background, thank you very much, we have a congressman, take the Minister back to his own district. But I think it was a sign that neither their own Member of Parliament was there, nor the Secretary of State, nor the mayors of the region. Something's going on, and you know it very well, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-11-16-133	Congresswoman, I'm sorry, I'm too poor a fantasy to start making up the gaps and suspicions you've raised and trying to outline. I don't really know what you're talking about. I met at least ten mayors there. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But not with ours!]] I don't know who your mayor is. I'm sorry, there were mayors, there were Members of Parliament, and those who were invited to this event, by the way, in a very large number. But I can see that the MSZP heat blinds your attention to the extent that you are not paying attention to the fact that it is a very significant investment. The railway track will be renewed at 67 km, and new railway wagons and trains will soon be in service, so the level of rail service will be drastically improved. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] However, I refer back to the time when the railways were not built in Hungary, but when you were on the government, the railways were closed, the railways were liquidated. That's what happened. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What are they doing now? Six percent!]] The railway Karcag-Tiszafüred was also stopped, and we restarted it. [[Constant interruptions in the benches of the MSZP.]] We're building railways on the line I told you about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we're not gonna stop this job. [[Anita Beringes: Urized, Minister! They're urinating!]] Even if you're the one who's famous [[The president's ringing again.]] You're trying to stop this with your increased activity at LEADER in Berettyójfalu, Congresswoman. [[Expansion and interruptions in the benches of the MSZP. Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-134	Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: What chance did this happen? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-11-16-135	Mr President, there is a great temptation, given that Viktor Orbán has sent his most effective man to respond, but I would like to wait for the Prime Minister to do so. Thank you very much. [[János Lázár: Thank you very much. Delight and applause in the pro-government benches. John Lazarus turned to the stenographers: Let him be in it! Make sure it's in there. Make sure it's for the kids.]] [[17.10]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]]
u2015-11-16-136	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Prime Minister's Tooth Fairy - Why do Viktor Orbán's friends always take the greasy public and municipal shops? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Thank you very much. I accept the identity of the responder.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-11-16-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The tooth fairy is a mythical creature who, in exchange for the tooth placed under the pillow by children, leaves money or a gift under the pillows, basically makes money out of teeth. It seems that such a tooth fairy can also be seen in the house of state dental funds in the form of a personal friend of Viktor Orbán and, since 1992, his dentist, Béla Bárófi, who makes teeth and the business around it money. An example of this is the Prime Minister's personal dentist, Béla Bátorfi and his business interests, as they perform well in the field of dental tourism, which Viktor Orbán announced otherwise. As is known, the Prime Minister's dentist was given the opportunity to create dental tourism, which was an international project, which was to be implemented through the Hungarian Centre for Dental Tourism. One of the interesting cases in the case of the Prime Minister's tooth fairy is that one week before the 2014 elections, it is certain that his interest received HUF 400 million from government reserves. But the National Development Agency wasn't small-handed either, because they were awarded a HUF 2.2 billion grant, such as a strong pre-Christmas period, when they decided to benefit from HUF 842 million in two days. Obviously, then, one of the dentists currently around 5,500 should be successful and have the Prime Minister's confidence. Many Fidesz voters claim that there are abuses around state money, but Viktor Orbán does not know anything about it, which is why he does not act, but if he could, he would surely eliminate it. In comparison, reality shows something completely different. How can it be, Minister, that people close to Viktor Orbán are still receiving support, how is it that, out of 5500 dentists, Viktor Orbán's dentist is about to grind up 3 billion forints of public money? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-16-138	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-16-139	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that perhaps there is no debate between Members of Parliament on the various sides of Parliament that the quality and functioning of Hungarian dentistry is worthy of support, regardless of the political position of the party. A significant portion of the country's tourist revenue is the work in which, for the first time in the last 30 years, dentists from Western Transdanubia, then Budapest and, taking into account the example of my own city, dentists from East Hungary have been looking forward to paying well-paying patients from Western Europe, who have been allowed to finance dental procedures, implants or any other intervention in Hungary. This has been a part of a professional challenge for many dentists, and, of course, of course, a chance to prosper. I would like to add that this was possible because in Hungary, unlike other countries, basic medical and dental training is far above the European average. Therefore, when a foreign patient comes here, you can rightly expect that a Hungarian dentist can produce at least the quality in Germany. I would like to believe that all parliamentary parties are particularly supportive of the Hungarian dental society, which deserves support. The Hungarian state has invested a great deal of taxpayers' money in medical education, and it is particularly beneficial for the country that we have internationally renowned and capacity dentists. The Hungarian government has listened to the opinions of dentists, including Bátorfi Béla, who I have no idea whether the Prime Minister is a dentist or not, perhaps this should be asked by the Prime Minister; I do not think it is, I do not know. I'm not aware that the Prime Minister has dental problems, his teeth are in pretty good shape, he bites well, as you may have seen politically. [[Defiance.]] You don't have that problem. As I understand it, the NFM has supported 26 dentists in the tourism agenda in the GOP applications. This isn't about getting the money to a dentist. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-140	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-11-16-141	Thank you very much. Minister, you have not resolved the doubts that I have raised, and which the Fidesz voters also claim, and they believe that if Viktor Orbán knew about these enrichments, he would stop it. Rather, what the Prime Minister's dentist's example shows and proves is that the Prime Minister, party president, does not only know about these things, but he himself is one of the indicators and initiatives of these businesses around the house of Fidesz. Viktor Orbán seems to reward those around him. It may also be an emblematic example of how to turn an otherwise good goal into a money-launderer or a money-winner, that, in this case, if you will, according to a good fidesz custom, not only the tooth fairy stands out in this, but also the national president of the Hungarian Triathlon Association. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Is it forbidden?]] So it's connected to politics not only through dentistry, tourism, but also through sports doggies, and they bathe in, you might say, big bites. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 33.5 percent of the Hungarian population does not have the option of living below the poverty line, while these people are paying public money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-16-142	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-16-143	Dear fellow Member, Even though I'm neither a bet nor an unaccepted protégé for Jobbik, I'd say there's no way to build a policy of envy. In my opinion, this is a great lesson, and I would not recommend that Jobbik campaign against any Hungarian dentist, because dentists are obviously treating patients, whether they are domestic or foreign, and campaigning against them may not be right. [[Lajos Korózs: But that one!]] As I mentioned, there are dozens of dentists in Hungary who have been allocated one billion forints from thousands of billions of European Union funds and have been able to install their dentist's office. Don't be jealous, Hungarian medical society and Hungarian dentists have fought for this support in the last 25 years. What I can tell you is that our job is to open up new subsidies to everyone. There is no competitive advantage or competitive disadvantage when someone is a Fidesz member or if someone is able to achieve the ironman, as I have read somewhere that Bátorfi Béla might be able to run this. I'm afraid I can't run this. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-144	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Why have they changed the confidentiality classification of the Paks construction contract? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-11-16-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, A very interesting story came out in the background, and I only have press information, so I didn't hesitate to come to you to see this story in its entirety. Looking back a little, we see that the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in Hungary's history may be the most secret investment, even the nuclear law has been modified in order to keep virtually no important detail from taxpayers about the project that consumes 12 000 billion forints or 30 years. This is, to put it mildly, a Hungaricum, a wonder of what kind of encryptions should be introduced here in Hungary, and we ourselves have been puzzled by why this is necessary. More surprisingly, a few months ago, at least according to press information, some of the classified documents were changed, namely the EPC contracts, which are about construction and planning. One of his birds reduced the duration of the encryption and changed the secret rating to a limited distribution. I believe that, if the encryption classification of this contract has been reduced, the argument that you have used before does not seem to stop, that everything here must be encrypted for reasons related to national security or intellectual property, or for 30 years, because it appears to be a part of the document which may also contain such intellectual property rights frequently. So that's why I'm asking you, is this news from the press that we've read and when we can expect to be relieved of the encryption of the rest of the contract? Actually, I have one more question: exactly what exactly did this mitigation have to do with? Who told you that this was a problem? And is this part of a general review, or has this detail of the contracts been so focused in some other way? Thank you.
u2015-11-16-146	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. [[17.20]]
u2015-11-16-147	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to inform the Parliament that the legislative act in 2015 is the 2015 VII. by law with the project law, the processing of this investment, which was not possible before. The programme started in 2013 with a bilateral Hungarian-Russian agreement for which the European Commission received Hungary's notification request in 2013. On 14 January 2014, the document in which Hungary was authorised to conclude the contract, signed by President Barroso, was issued, and in 2014, Paks II. I decided, before the birth of law, that, like the Finnish example, we have in the same way as Finland, the Prime Minister's Office, which data can be made public, and what data deserves to be guaranteed and protected for reasons of national security and economic protection in Hungary. When Paks II. The Hungarian Parliament passed the law, and the Hungarian legislation settled data protection and data security issues, then opened up the possibility of considering the issue of you, others, concerning the confidentiality of data processing, and, on the basis of consultation with the investor partner, listening to the opinion of the European Commission, so in the light of a number of opinions, I decided to reduce the duration of encryption, but I did not eliminate it. So we're still talking about classified data that are classified until 2025, against previous longer encryption. This is partly because we are constantly consulting the European Commission, the European Commission first approved the fuel contract, so it contributed to the fuel supply contract, and then we went beyond technical notification. At the moment, competition notices are being made to examine the issue of prohibited State aid; at least two more issues will be examined by the European Commission, which concerns public procurement and the availability of environmental data. We have done everything on the basis of consultation with the European Commission. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-148	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2015-11-16-149	Thank you, Mr President, for the answer, Minister, from which I basically concluded that the encryption of this one contract had then been lifted or relieved over the past period. But then I would like to see if there is still a similar development in relation to the other treaties; and I would like to ask whether the situation still exists, that even members of the National Security Committee cannot look into these documents, because there has been a situation like this before, which I see as extremely problematic. You have just mentioned the Finnish example here, but I would like to remind you that it is a market construction, and in Hungary, all public money comes from taxpayers' money. Therefore, I find it problematic to compare the two with each other in this way, because right now the Hungarian Parliament, including the members of the National Security Committee, is in a position to check in no way how these tax forints are spent. I would like to ask when new information on the remaining two issues, such as public procurement and the public on environmental data, is expected. Is that what the Minister's information is about?
u2015-11-16-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-16-151	Given that Hungary is a member of the European Union, we will also consult the European Commission on this matter. This also applies specifically to the cases raised by you. I would like to stress that, after many decades ago, Hungary has made such an investment, not in democratic but in anti-democratic circumstances, we will therefore also consider the possibility, methodology and model teaching, of what data may deserve or be subject to consideration by the public. I am not shutting down from any data request, we will examine all data requests in detail, but the implementation of the investment cannot be compromised by the public. We have provided fair access to security and environmental data both at home and abroad, and the international standard of this is a completely open book. Construction of nuclear power plants is one of the most transparent businesses in the world. I accept your arguments regarding the spending of state money, and we will regularly inform Parliament and the public about the progress of the investment.
u2015-11-16-152	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question: "Does the heat of the home now help Hungarian households? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-16-153	Acknowledging Mr Secretary of State's skills in energy, I accept, of course.
u2015-11-16-154	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-16-155	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is a challenge for our country to continue to make progress in the areas of energy saving and energy efficiency in the population. The three sub-programmes of the "Home Gay" programme successfully launched the public boiler, cooling machine and opening shutter exchanges in autumn 2014, starting in spring 2015 with the focus on communities of panels and brick houses with more than four but not more than 60 apartments, housing cooperatives, aimed at achieving the required value, this means category C, and the energy efficiency of the required buildings can be improved by at least two categories. The aid to be awarded by tender was also available for thermal insulation, window replacement, heating system modernisation and the construction of renewable energy-based systems. In May 2015, the government announced the launch of the fifth sub-programme of the "Home Hotness" programme, the washing machine change programme, which supports households with a 50 percent intensity to replace their washing machines with more energy-saving ones. Dear Secretary of State, In relation to what has been said, I would like to ask whether the program "Home Gay" is helping Hungarian households and whether the washing machine change sub-programme is successful. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, The main aim of the application scheme, which was launched under the "Home Gay" programme, is to provide families with fast, adequate support throughout the country. Their support has indeed significantly improved the efficiency of household energy consumption, with a significant reduction in domestic CO2 emissions. The programme contributes not only to achieving the domestic climate protection and energy efficiency targets, but also to further reduce household costs. As a follow-up to the invitation to tender for the exchange of refrigeration equipment, we intend to provide support this year for the replacement of washing machines, given that 96 percent of households have washing machines and 43 percent of these appliances are over 8 years old. The invitation to tender announced on 28 May under the fifth sub-programme of the "Home Hotness" programme was of great interest, with four times the number of applications submitted compared to the programme. In view of this, the Ministry of Development increased the original HUF 500 million budget to nearly HUF 2 billion in mid-September to HUF 1.9 billion. The 44,000 applications submitted since 1 July will be processed soon, and decisions will be taken on a continuous basis. To date, more than 33 thousand applications have been criticised, more than 32 thousand applications have been evaluated, and a further 9.5 thousand grant decisions are under way.
u2015-11-16-158	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I believe that the programme "Home Gay" which started in the autumn of 2014 and I also tried to persuade condominiums in my own district to start on this programme is a success, just as the Secretary of State mentioned this washing machine change programme. I would like to point out that with this energy rationalization, we have produced a carbon dioxide quota. I hope that Hungary's government will spend this extra CO2 quota and extra money on new programmes in the coming period. And it is a special pleasure for me that he has raised it from 500 million to almost 2 billion, making more than 30,000 new washing machines available. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-160	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy in return. [[17 .30]]
u2015-11-16-161	Dear fellow Member, As I said, over 37 thousand applications have been evaluated so far, 9.5 thousand are in the process. Where we have examined, we have also sent the supporting documents to the applicants and they can go shopping with them at the store. By the way, according to our calculations, until 31 December, we can send out the supporting document to about 95 percent of all applicants, so we hope that tens of thousands of families can buy new household appliances before Christmas. Thanks to the programme series with a budget of nearly HUF 15 billion so far, energy efficiency has improved in some 85 thousand households, saving families 10-12 thousand forints per year. Thank you for your attention, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-162	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question entitled "Social Disaster in Zala." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-16-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you - the situation in Zala County is indeed disastrous in terms of the social sector and in view of the social situation. I think you need to do something to stop it. I say this because the most recent data you could see is that in human health care, they can earn a total of HUF 65 834 a month. In the education sector, they can earn HUF 75 858 in Zala county, while in the service employees can earn HUF 82 thousand in total. This county average, taking the net action, seems to mean HUF 123 990 per month, with workers in Zalai earning about 30 percent less than the national average than can otherwise be seen in the country. Of course, it's not much to look at in a national trend. Therefore, the workers' poverty that is present in Zala County and throughout the country, how do they intend to deal with it? Because what you can see is that they abandoned the poor, abandoned the local governments, abandoned the people who needed them, so it can be said that the social disaster is still a very subtle sign that we can see in different counties, in this case also in Zala County. You can see that at school, what you're saying, how well the children are well cared for, it's not true. It is not true that children go to school hungry on Monday, but they are hungry even in the kindergarten system, and this social situation comes from nothing other than the presence of workers' poverty in the county, and the workers' poverty that is present cannot address the social problem they should be dealing with. Therefore, it would be necessary to intervene in a state which is in any event dealing with the situation of trying to settle and correct wages, because, if not, poverty will continue to be a milestone in the Zala county situation. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-164	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The aim of this government was precisely to give as many people as possible jobs and the opportunity for decent civilian living, to have as many students as possible acquire the knowledge they need to break out of poverty, and to take on a large family, not to imply the commitment of poverty at the same time. I can list a lot of measures for you. You know that more than half a million people are now working at national level than before with four or five years, which is one of the most important indicators of those who are no longer at such a high risk of poverty. You know that the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has decreased by around 241 thousand over the last three years, and this has many parts. One reason, for example, is that much less tax is due to people, much more money is left by the government, especially when a person has a child, even if he has a family. After all, since 1 January 2014, this rule is that if a person has two or three children under average or under average income, then a single penny tax does not have to be paid. And if you work as a teacher, you know that you are now earning 40 percent more than you did in 2010, while your monthly salary was lost in 2008 or even for social workers. Honourable Congressman, You said numbers here and you were worried, but when exactly that amount, a month's wage, was taken away during the previous socialist government, such an alarm bell was not taken by you or your fellow Members. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They didn't ring. However, we also tried to increase social workers' wages on 1 January 2014 and July this year. The January 2014 was a general one, where everyone received a salary increase of about the same level, but the current one was dependent on a more qualified workforce, so who had a higher education, had a longer job, had a higher wage increase; who had no qualifications, had no professional qualifications, had less. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We have tried to keep truly committed and professionally trained people on track in the social sphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think the Secretary of State's slip was working again because, for example, in Zala County, if we look at the statistics, we can see that they are leaving the county. Not only are young people leaving the county, but also young people who have become skilled workers or graduates from the country. As a result, it is certainly not true what you said that employment has increased nationally, because this cannot be seen in Zala County. And the other slide, we also have to be honest, is that the Medgyessy government has raised the wages of teachers by 50 percent, and has not created a career model that cannot go into the store and buy, but, on the contrary, has tried to pay everyone equally in order to make this visible. Therefore, Mr. Secretary, I would ask you, how do you have: the career model is more important than giving money to everyone, and everyone is clearly getting the same wage? Because according to our values, we need to weigh all teachers or all health workers equally in order not to be career models, but wages and salaries in wallets. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-168	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-169	I very much admire you, honourable Member, if you so agree that everyone has more money in their wallets, then why have you not supported those legislative proposals in the last five years? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, among them: Because it was unjust.]] , which have left more money than people through tax cuts? Why didn't you support next year's tax laws, which also took back personal income tax and further reduced what people have to pay? At your time, it was a very high personal income tax that took a lot of money from people. [[Calls from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Tax credit!]] The current tax system leaves much more, especially for those who have children and have families. So perhaps these laws should also have given the value of these various fine words and supported these billings. I regret that you have failed to pursue an economic policy that has increased employment, since you have increased the number of unemployed by 250,000. This economic policy has failed, and the government has also had the responsibility to launch wage increases, tax cuts and wage increases for educators, health workers, law enforcement workers. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] with civil servants, and we will continue to do so later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-170	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, How to help people with disabilities... [[For signal:]] Excuse me, fellow Members. Unfortunately, I turned the page faster than I should have. I'll follow you. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Will the government repay Andy Vajna for the purchase of TV2 with the new billions of casinos? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-11-16-171	I accept, Mr. President, thank you.
u2015-11-16-172	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-11-16-173	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In the previous cycle, the government described gambling as something to be condemned and virtually persecuted. Who wouldn't agree that people shouldn't spend their income through gambling, who wouldn't agree that this is a bad thing? You waited a few months to take away the possibility of gambling from tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs, and then, after a few months, you gave Andy Vajna, working in the immediate environment of the Prime Minister, the opportunity to win money from online casino games. [[17.40]] Recently, the government has again amended the legislation on online casino games: it has now tax-freed the resulting prize. Minister, 50 percent of the wages of an average person in Hungary are carried away by the state in different forms of public burdens, in taxes, in various contributions, etc. Why, then, is the income from online gambling tax-free? Don't you think that this is another way of putting Andy Vajna's money in his pocket, making him more attractive with such measures - and this is no longer the first - to gamble? We also need to ask the question that we have heard from many of our fidesz acquaintances that there may be some reason why the government does not want to thank Andy Vajna that he is willing to put another TV channel in the service of the government and buy TV2, that may be the price, or that there is some other consideration that the government is now bringing in several rounds of legislation here in Parliament that represents more and more billions for Andy Vajna. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-16-174	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-16-175	Thank you very much. It is a great honor to be able to answer such questions here in the House of the Country. I would like to start by saying that I do not agree with the fundamental principle, Mr President, because, in my opinion, the chances of someone having access to gambling in Hungary had to be significantly reduced. Given that, as a result of a liberalisation, the so-called one-armed vending machines could spread freely in Hungary since the 1990s, in a town of the same size as my hometown, it was possible to gain access to gambling machines in the pubs in Hódmezővásárhely, which resulted in a significant part of society that could not otherwise afford to gamble, but allowed it to do so, and even a lifestyle, a lifestyle industry was built to do so. Many social aid workers, many unemployed or even pensioners, had their money stolen before they could have it, since debt and loan sharks were built on this entire gambling industry. I recall that there was a great consensus between political parties that this type of gambling should be eliminated, limited, only within the limits, and that, if possible, the possibility of gambling should be opened up in Budapest for those who can afford it and those who are able to consider the risks of this gambling addiction, and perhaps in some major cities. That's what the government did. In part, we have pointed out to the European Union that this is an extremely dangerous activity for society, we have controlled it, we are constantly monitoring it. If you've been to a casino unlike me, because I've never been in my life, you might know that it's always under control, it's controlled, and a completely transparent, transparent system has been created. As far as I know, and here I have to read the NGM's answer:, the T/6986 bill does not provide future online casino gaming operators with more different tax rules than the one in force. EU rules exclude the beneficiary of the game, i.e. the player, from the obligation to pay taxes. But this has been required by the European Union for Hungary since 2014. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-176	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-177	Thank you very much, Minister. Once again, I can say to you that the government has amended the law in several steps so that, on the one hand, while tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs had lost their income, everything is now going to Andy Vajna, and now Andy Vajna can have the opportunity to play online casino games, because the government has helped this big entrepreneur, the government commissioner of the Orbán government by law in this way. Another interesting thing is that while gambling is linked to the black economy and crime everywhere, in Hungary there was not even an online connection to the tax office of online gambling machines, casinos. And think about it, Minister, that while a small businessman is expected to change his cash register for HUF 150,000, because the IRS demands that casinos not be required, there is some reason why Andy Vajna's companies are privileged. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-16-178	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-11-16-179	Thank you very much. In Hungary, unlike the previous system, gambling was not possible in hundreds or thousands of places, but in Hungary the eleven casinos available were also recommended in seven respects, and the concession was allocated and the rest was not distributed. So it is not true that the government has divided this market in Hungary, because we have limited this market, and the operation of this market has been controlled by the state, precisely so that either organised crime, money laundering or the vulnerability of small people do not characterize this sector and do not settle on it. This decision has partly made access more difficult, but tax revenues have increased. We didn't make any exceptions, I add. You can check that the current tax system complies with all international standards. I would also add that I am unaware that there is any business relationship between the concession granted by the Hungarian State and the other economic activity of the investors concerned. In my view, limiting access is a socially beneficial thing. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-180	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How can we help people with disabilities? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-16-181	Thank you very much, Mr President, I accept. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, In 2011 regarding the housing credentials in distress, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said the following: We cannot leave anyone on the side of the road. The same principle has been applied over the past four years in relation to many, many people and to all the layers of people in some form who are in trouble or in need of help, need to be, be about families, unaccompanied migrant children or homeless people. The Christian Democratic People's Party has always supported and will continue to support measures to help those in distress. However, there is a layer that has been in need of special assistance since birth or due to an accident or illness, and this is a layer of people with so-called disabilities, who may have a problem with transport, who may have problems with monitoring public media, possibly by telephone or by monitoring parliamentary mediation. They can't live a full life without help. Therefore, their support deserves particular attention. As far as I know, the government has provided a great deal of help to this layer in both public education and higher education and adult life. However, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what other measures are being taken and what the government is planning to do to make life easier for people with disabilities.
u2015-11-16-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, it represents a quality in the functioning of a welfare state or in the functioning of a caring state, how it treats those who are in the most difficult situation, how it can help them, with ad hoc decisions or along a well-defined strategy, whether there are results in this, whether they bear different financial sacrifices or otherwise help people with disabilities. I think that if we start from the direction of the results, one of the most important things is that we have managed to achieve in the new support system for the disabled from around 40,000 to around 80,000, so that the number of people who have changed their working skills has nearly doubled, but have managed to get them to work, to give their everyday lives meaning and purpose, and also to gain additional income, which will make their lives easier. So it is very important that for them, who have the ability to do so, we have now opened up the possibility of working to a much greater extent. Obviously, this means a change in quality of life for them too. It is important that as many people are able to participate in society's bloodstream and the disadvantages that their disability poses can be slightly reduced by the state. We adopted a very long-term action plan and strategy, as the national disability programme is from 2015 to 2025, so we adopted an overall 11-year programme, which was obviously a good test for the previous four years, because we saw how we could help. [[17.50]] This longer term, of course, also means a new structure, including early development, rehabilitation, training, employment, increasing the capacity for self-sufficiency, multiple vulnerable groups, and, of course, family members who live in the same family as disabled persons, we are also trying to help them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] dealing with this situation. Thank you, I'd like to continue from here.
u2015-11-16-184	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman, please.
u2015-11-16-185	I was happy to listen to your reply, my dear Secretary of State, all the more so, because, as we have heard, the Catholic Church announced the year of St. Martin's, and without these values, which St. Martin represented, who shared his cloak with the poor and miserable beggar, we cannot help this problem, and we are on the right track that the government has adopted such a long-term programme here. However, one thing is worth paying attention to, and here too, I think we have taken a big step forward, that the Hungarian public opinion has changed positively in recent years towards the disabled and the disabled. Today, they are not as surprised at a man as they were 10 to 20 years ago, and in the eyes of people, young and old, the desire to help and the knowledge to help have become a serious value. I wish we could just keep this up. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-16-186	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-16-187	Thank you very much. As I said to you, the 11-year national disability programme can be divided into periodic action plans, with a total of three, the first of which, for the years 2015-18, was adopted by the government on 14 September, contains 80 concrete measures; this is an order of magnitude more than the previous ones, and they are much more detailed. The government will support various projects supporting people's social inclusion, including health, early development, education, training, employment, social services and care, complex rehabilitation, self-determination, independent living, families of disabled people, transport, sport, culture, tourism and accessibility for groups at multiple risk. And to have a body that's obviously guarding this compliance, that's why the government has also set up the Inter-Diversal Committee on Disabilities, which will coordinate the joint monitoring and implementation of our tasks under the UN Conventions and our family strategy with civilians. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. When will the application be issued for the EU's non-refundable support for the energy efficiency modernisation of dwellings, which was promised in August? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor.
u2015-11-16-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Promise is a good word, if you keep it, that's fine. In August this year, a statement was published on the government website, which was registered by an NFM State Secretary, and this text is still available on the Internet, and it contains, and I quote, that next spring, the proposal for the renovation of unconventional family homes will be launched, with a grant of HUF 150 billion that will renew up to 3 million of these houses by 2020. In the framework of the proposal under development, they support the thermal insulation of buildings, the replacement of windows and the renovation of the electricity grid, thus providing work for small and medium-sized enterprises. 40 per cent of the renovation costs will be non-refundable Union support, while the share is expected to be 45 per cent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, The most important thing to say in this communication is that you are finally beginning to fulfill a previous government promise. Even in their 2010 electoral and government programme, they promised to provide EU funds to finally enforce public energy efficiency subsidies, so that in the sixth year of their governance, this could finally happen, and people are being encouraged to believe that there will be a 40% share of non-refundable aid. Dear Secretary of State, I am also aware that other wallets have begun to take the opposite position, but I think that the burden of the promise is definitely on your ministry, and I would very much like to have a well-founded professional position on what will happen to this money. Do you keep your earlier promises and give this money to households, or do you accept that you have deceived the entire country? Therefore, I would very much ask you to confirm that the announced tender will be issued as promised, and please inform us when the Hungarian families will have access to EU non-refundable support, adding that Hungarian families will not have any savings if you do not give them this, then this energy efficiency project is expected to be nothing in this country.
u2015-11-16-190	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent weeks, you have asked this or similar question several times, and I would also like to confirm here that, according to the basic standards on EU aid, private individuals cannot receive support for such purposes, but we agree perfectly that such support for families is a very important thing. The Government of Hungary remains committed to reducing the cost to families. By the way, this is our intention, and if you have forgotten 2010, it can be traced in figures, from 2012 to 2015 we reduced the household rent for families by several hundred billion forints, as a result of which, for example, the utility surplus over 30 days decreased by nearly 30 percent from 2012 to 2015, from 95 billion to 68 billion. I repeat, your interest is well-founded, because it is an important issue, and I very much hope that my answer has changed your scepticism, because in 2013 you voted against the reduction of the rent, and you did the same in February 2014. This calls into question your real intentions and interests, but this has not diminished the significance or interest of Hungarian families. For this reason, we continue to consider the program called "Home Heat" mentioned several times today, which has improved the energy efficiency of 85 thousand households by spending some HUF 15 billion this year. If you don't mind, I'll keep going. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2015-11-16-193	Dear Secretary of State, It seems to me that you have the rent fighting forever, but I would now like to charge you 150 billion forints, and I will do so as many times as you fail to answer the truth. There is no such thing as the European Union not allowing it, and there is no such thing. There's an operational program, you put it in, the Union approved it, you've already run it through the system. The Commission spokesperson himself has indicated that there is no obstacle to such support for Hungarian families, and even underlined that they agree to support the population in this way, because in the European Union, too, it is a welcome goal not to heat the streets with Russian gas, but to isolate the houses, replace the windows, and try to help Hungarian citizens not to spend their money on heating the street, as I said. Sometime along the way, you changed your mind, promised 150 billion forints, and then spent it on someone else. Tell me the truth, don't pin this on the Union, it's a double game. I know exactly what the situation is in the Union, I've been informed from the original source, don't lie, be kind. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Tell me the truth, why did you decide otherwise, where is this money going? !
u2015-11-16-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-16-195	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's a wordfight between the opposition and the government that's been going on for weeks. Today, I have already said, I repeat, that the relevant rules of the European Union, in contrast to all other claims, do not allow direct private use of the resources of the 2014-2020 programming period. I have also told your fellow Member, and I will tell you that only the resources of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund can be granted to a natural person. In view of this, and in order to strengthen what you have said, let me inform you once again that the government will provide some HUF 100 billion in the form of an interest-free or substantial interest-rate subsidy for the purpose that you are also calling for. Thank you very much. [[18.00]]
u2015-11-16-196	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. When will the renovation of the firehouse in Pécs begin? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-11-16-197	I'm honored, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-16-198	I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-16-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Pécs is the largest city in Transdanubia with more than 150,000 inhabitants, but it is not only the narrow town itself that is important, but Pécs is also known to be a county seat and regional center, which, in addition to many other reasons, shows that in more than 50 settlements in the area, firefighters in Pécs guarantee the safety of its inhabitants and protection from fire. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] For this reason, our city considers fire-fighting to be a priority, with the right quality and sufficient equipment, and therefore, I think, quite rightly, protection against fire is now a state task. To this day in Pécs, we feel, and will feel, our duty to participate in continuous development with our humble means. For this reason, the last time the city provided assistance to the city's representatives in building a base for voluntary firefighters, and we are making improvements that will enable the firefighters in Pécs to buy new tools on the foundation. At the same time, our big problem is that the central barracks in Pécs has been practically life-threatening for more than ten years now, since it is a 20-station building built in the 1980s, and in the last three decades it has not been possible to follow the needs of the age and to prevent the danger of life. An important and strange problem is that it is no longer enough for firefighters to leave a barracks. In order to cover this large area, it would be necessary to develop new centres, new smaller barracks. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether there is an opportunity for the Pécs and the people of Pécs to receive a new large barracks and smaller bases with public money. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-200	Thank you very much. Welcome. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in 1997, the municipalities received from the State the task of maintaining and operating the professional fire department, while the professional supervision naturally remained with the Ministry of the Interior. This was an untenable state, so after 2011, firefighting was returned to the state as a task. This was also unsustainable because it imposed on a settlement the provision of fire safety in a larger region, along with all related developments. Therefore, there was a clear lack of development because the settlements alone could not do so. This is what we can see now in the firehouse in Pécs. It is certainly good news for the Pécs and the Pécs neighbourhoods that not only the firehouse will be renovated, but a new barracks will be built within the EU's tendering framework for KEOP 2014-2020. This programme was announced on 22 October and is expected to be submitted in 2016 in the light of the annual development framework, so a new ten-storey barracks can be built in addition to the old one. The old is practically dismantled, and in the renovatable part there is a nine-station storage area, and on the floor there is a parking lot and a sports facility for firefighters. The estimated investment cost is HUF 2 billion 230 million, which will be covered entirely by EU funds, so that firefighters can be placed in a completely new and modern building, together with the water authority integrated into the disaster management organisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-202	Thank you. You have a rejoinder, Congressman, in one minute. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the encouraging and joyful news from the Secretary of State. I think, as you have said, a good two or three decades delay will be possible for the government, which is essential in its defence against the fire in Pécs. Perhaps this is also the reason why it was a good decision to take the operation of the fire department into the hands of the state, and we are not only talking about professional operations, but, as you said, it is easier for the state to provide infrastructure conditions and backgrounds than a local government such as Pécs, which has done nothing over the decades than to build up a debt of HUF 44 billion. However, I would be very interested to know how we can solve the problem that today's city structure is no longer suitable for a barracks, and we should create several precincts, for which Pécs also offered property. So this development, the next step, would also be necessary for people living in Pécs and Pécs. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-204	We have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-205	Indeed, the profession supports the need for firefighters to move from two places in Pécs. Accordingly, the planning of the suburban fire department has also begun. It is expected that a four-storey barracks will be built here. The construction of the barracks can also start in 2017, and it is planned to end somewhat earlier than the construction of the large barracks. The new fire station will be placed in this barracks for the first time, so we can ensure that the arrival time can be reduced by 15-20 minutes. The investment cost of this barracks will be HUF 790 million, and the transfer of both firehouses is expected to be completed in 2019. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questions. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/6724. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, who has five minutes. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This proposal was put on the table of the People's Welfare Committee before it was preceded by an all-party consultation, and was signed by the representative of Fidesz as rapporteur; it is about Katalin Csöbör. Initiating civilians visited Secretary of State Czibere and personally Minister Balog. The textual proposal was sent to all parties in advance and was submitted to the House with the support of Fidesz's representative and all opposition parties. This proposal for a decision set out the goal of eliminating child hunger in Hungary, and it was set up as a name for this case that represented the national minimum programme. It was not only the proposal for a resolution that led to joint action between the parties' representatives, but also the. National Minimum.It was an event in the Arena, during which the parties' representatives, who later signed this resolution proposal, joined the stage and adopted this proposal for a resolution from the civil initiative, including Mrs Csöbör Fideszes. So far, there has been no political motivation for this matter, it would have come before the House as a party initiative, or it would have been before the House if it had not been given political motivation in the Committee on Welfare by Péter Harrach, and later by the Fidesz Group leader Lajos Kósa. Péter Harrach said to Kossuth Radio: the problem was that the opposition flew on the subject, this particular initiative, and when this material appeared before the committee, it was presented by opposition representatives, and this created a situation that could not be taken on, because with its support we would have supported an opposition campaign on the left. [[18.10]] Lajos Kósa went even further when he said that this was a political campaign, only for political gain. Péter Harrach also said that Katalin Csöbör's signature is on this proposal by mistake, although, until now, according to the Parliament's website, Katalin Csöbör has not withdrawn his intention to submit, so he remains the author of this. He himself said at a press conference that he could no longer agree with this proposal because the opposition had taken over it. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what should happen in Hungary, how careful someone should be to bring a case to Parliament so that it doesn't get political motivation. Once again, I would like to point out that, with the Secretary of State, Minister, the initiators also came to him, all the parties were approached, Fidesz, a representative of the Greater Government Party, is the author of this proposal, and when he goes to the Welfare Committee and has to vote on it, they will run away cowardly. It is very important to talk about the situation with regard to hunger for children in Hungary, because it is clear that neither opposition representatives nor civil initiatives were intended for political gain. We don't want to take advantage of that. Believe me, we are guided by the fact that the fate of the 50,000 children who starve permanently in Hungary should turn right! Believe me, we have a motive, a case that could tie the parties together; it seemed that this case could be something that could link even the parties to the government. In Hungary, the largest proportion of people who have said that in recent years they have not been able to buy the right food for their children is the largest in Hungary. Having a meal with a persistent low nutritional value only for one child also causes a fundamental lack of intellectual development. This lag will be reflected in learning, and later it will also impair your chances of working, and it will also be harmful at all levels of society, not only for individuals. After all, this is how money spent on catching up and social benefits appears when it comes to intuitive adults. So give yourself a chance to include in a series of subjects a case-by-case initiative above the parties on its national minimum programme, with a view to the matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-208	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing, and first of all István Hollik, Member KDNP.
u2015-11-16-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I think there is agreement between all of us that there is a single lost, single starving child in many of Hungary. We must see that, in this respect, the Hungarian government has not only spoken but also acted in the last five years, unlike the opposition. Today we have reached the point of spending 28-29 billion forints on children's meals in 2010 by socialist governments, and in 2015 we will spend 72 billion forints on this. Today, a system has been established in Hungary to ensure that children in need can receive free or reduced meals from birth until the completion of secondary school. Therefore, if a person does not really have party policy goals, then I think that he should not come here with proposals for decisions, which in itself is inadequate in any way to assist in further development of the child's food supply, but should deal with the development of the legislation currently in force. We should also acknowledge the government work that we have done over the last five years so that children can enjoy a good quality meal, and no child should starve today in Hungary. That is why we continue to think and see that behind the National Minimum Initiative, there are actually former LMP, PM-shadow civilians. Therefore, we believe that if someone wants to further improve the food supply of children, they do not come here with proposals for decisions, but with legislation. [[Dóra Dúró: The proposal for a decision is also a law.]] They come here with specific legislation. We can therefore continue to be unable to support this series of articles. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-210	Thank you very much. I'd like everyone to stick to the time frame. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, Congresswoman, please.
u2015-11-16-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you can see how important this matter is to the government, no one on the government's side is here. [[Lajos Korózs: No one is here. Shame!]] Fidesz, we can say, has a national minimum, although its details have never been explained. We can interpret this fidesz national minimum as follows: steal people's savings, then take the pension, pension rights of disabled pensioners, and make the situation of disabled people even more hopeless, while raising countless taxes, eliminating certain social benefits, housing support, equity public health care, debt management, kindergarten support. Work half the country on public work, for hunger, for 52 thousand forints a month, and cut social benefits, as we see at present in the area of child welfare services and home assistance. Fidesz misrepresentation and starved children with right-wing propaganda words are real problems, there is child hunger in Hungary, which the government has a dog's duty to solve. Another sentence from the minutes of the Csilla Lantai Board of Welfare, which was made by Csilla Lantai Head of Department, is that it really has the power, if the government and civil society can think together on this issue, and we can come up with proposals that can be so widely strengthened and widely accepted. That's our goal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The government has no purpose in this matter because it has not come here to defend or reject this proposal at all. That is how the government today views child hunger in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-212	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Jobbik Group, Mrs Dóra Dúró. [[Dóra Dúró: No.]] In this case, it is up to the representative of the LMP, Mrs Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am most deeply outraged that no one from the government has come in to negotiate the proposal for a national minimum programme, no one is here in the Hungarian Parliament, commonly known as the horseshoe, to listen to our arguments regarding the need for a national minimum programme. 50,000 children are starving today, even now that we are discussing this proposal here. I am trying to convince you that, despite the conditions prevailing in the faction, you will undertake to make sure that there is always enough money in the Hungarian budget for the 21st century. No children should starve in Hungary in the first century. I would add that the LMP has always been proud to be the author of the National Minimum Programme, but here is the thanks to the civilians, who are now in the horseshoe, unlike the government, sitting in the box, watching this completely unworthy debate that the ruling party has ruined by not showing up. [[Interview from the Fidesz benches: Here we are.]] to discuss this. Nevertheless, I thank the civilians for their presence, and thank you for the fact that increasingly popular parties and politicians have been involved in this process, since they know exactly what the stakes are. Here the fate of 50,000 children is at stake whether they receive food or not. I am saddened to see that Hungary has a government that has not only been able to produce a terribly outrageous committee meeting on this programme, but I really find it outrageous that it has not shown itself in the debate itself. The LMP was next on this issue, we supported the proposal from the very first minute, with all its contents, we agreed. We were pleased that he was a former pro-government signatory, and we were sad that KDNP had been shut down from the start. When you guys changed your mind, we told you to take it by your name, submit it to you, just vote for it. You didn't do that. All we have to do here is ask you what you think. How dare they behave like this? ! [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]] [[18.20]]
u2015-11-16-214	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Timea Szabó, independent, please.
u2015-11-16-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, This is not a political issue, the issue of hunger is not a political issue, it is not a civil issue, it is not a church subject, it is not a media issue, it is not a matter. It's a common cause for all of us, and it's a common shame for all of us, so we all have to work together to eradicate the hunger of our children. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The National Minimum Programme - on whose behalf your favourite word is "the national" - is a declaration of intent, an outstretched hand. We are not asking you now to support us, to support opposition representatives. We ask you to support the children, children who do not have enough food, food every day. Don't hit this outstretched hand that's now opening up to you, don't turn it down. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear István Hollik, who, I see, has gone out since then: we know that there is a problem, we know that there is a hunger for children in Hungary; we also know that, unfortunately, thanks to the Hungarian Treasury, it has been revealed since Friday that it is not true that the government has doubled the state's support for children's meals. It is not true that it has increased from 28 billion to 71 billion, as we know from the figures of the Hungarian Treasury since Friday that it has already been allocated 65 billion forints in 2010 and 72 billion forints in 2014. This represents a total increase of HUF 3 billion in real terms. All that's happened is that you transferred this funding from one budget line to another. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Let's face it, you're wrong. It's not too late to change now. Take the children's side, the cause of child hunger, because there is no right-wing and left-wing child hunger. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There is only child hunger in Hungary. Let us make sure that there is no child hunger in Hungary. Thank you.
u2015-11-16-216	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Kovács, Fidesz!
u2015-11-16-217	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The municipality of the settlement, regardless of its competence and competence, is obliged to provide extraordinary municipal support, meals or accommodation to the person in need, if this lack endangers the life and physical integrity of the person in need. The care provider may require reimbursement of the exceptional aid paid pursuant to paragraph 1 from the competent body. § :" In the context of catering, those in need of social care must be provided with warm meals at least once a day, who cannot provide it to themselves or their dependants on a permanent or temporary basis, especially because of their age, health status, disability, addiction or homelessness. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I can tell you there's a national minimum, it's called social law. The Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. According to the law, every needy Hungarian and non-Hungarian citizen - with the criteria of necessity - is entitled to a warm meal. I think the national minimum is regulated by law, not by an unenforceable parliamentary resolution. The national minimum must be respected and enforced, that is our job, not to make a political issue out of it. I think that the Hungarian Government did everything it could to comply with this law when the majority of the government of this Parliament adopted the 2015 and 2016 budgets, which you did not accept and thus contributed to the possible non-existence of the national minimum. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-218	Thank you very much. Congressman Novak, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-16-219	Dear Parliament, Where's Katalin Cöbör? This is the issue now, since Fidesz has been sneaking out from behind the general pro-party proposal on child hunger, which he has previously signed, and Jobbik has now asked for a draft decision on his national minimum programme to be held in plenary, so that Parliament can now discuss it and we will vote on it tomorrow. According to Jobbik, this is a common national matter over party politics, so let's try to get Fidesz to stick with the big media public, of course, even with their support and partly with their own presentation. It is amazing what Péter Harrach said, on the one hand, that this proposal is not in favour of the proposal because of the rude provocation, attack by the left-wing opposition and merely because of the person of the rapporteur, forgetting that Fidesz also signed it. Now what did KDNP say? The fact that he does not think this proposal will help, unless we recognise the results of the government, it will help. What did the Fidesz representative say? He started pointing out all kinds of laws that were actually due to everyone, but he didn't say he didn't always get one. For this reason, it is in vain to point out the benefits to the law, if the facts are that there is a child hunger in Hungary at the present time. It is also necessary to say what I indicated in the debate of the Committee on Welfare that, because we are committed to reducing child hunger, we also had proposals which unfortunately were also swept off by our proposal to introduce the current government, such as the social card. In principle, money for family support is involved, but it is not certain that it will come to that, since often parents spend on passions not aimed at raising children, or on excise products. That is why I can promise you that, after the Government of Jobbik, Fidesz has wiped out the proposals for child hunger and relaxation, it will immediately bring to law, and I find it unacceptable for the representative of Fidesz to say that the government has done everything in its power to help the cause. We would demand more modesty when, for example, according to Tarki's research, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There are about 50,000 children who are starving permanently in Hungary today. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-11-16-220	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Bernadett Szél wish to respond in a minute. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here.
u2015-11-16-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to the statistical office of the European Union, according to Eurostat, more than 74 percent of Hungarian households were unable to finance an unexpected expenditure in 2014. This is the worst figure in the last ten years, and we are last among the EU Member States in this series. Imagine, honourable fellow Members, pro-government colleagues, this is no longer two-thirds, but three-quarters of households, which today cannot finance an unexpected expenditure in Hungary; I think it is a talkative number. With unexpected expenses, it must always be said that we are talking about 50,000 forints, 50,000 forints cannot now be financed by more than 74 percent of households. Then vote down this initiative tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-222	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind in a minute!
u2015-11-16-223	Hungary is not the richest country in the world, but we can afford no child to starve here in our country. The national minimum is a very good initiative, and at the beginning no one, not even the governing parties, has argued about it. I think it is a special pleasure that this initiative came from civilians, without any ulterior motive or political interest. Those who put political interests into it were the governing parties. I'm sure everyone's starting out on their own. But I do know one thing. If Parliament is unable to undertake its national minimum programme, it will be one of the most nasty stains of Hungarian politics, and the responsibility will be for those Members who vote 'no' for this programme tomorrow. Once again, I would like to stress that with the deepest indignation I have noted that the governing parties have come to this debate in such a small number, and that no one from the government has participated in the debate on the national minimum programme.
u2015-11-16-224	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 1997 LXXXI on social security pensions in order to ensure the protection of the elderly. T/6507 amending Act T/6507 Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the authors, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-225	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is known to everyone that in Hungary there is a so-called pay-as-you-go pension scheme, which takes into account the calculation of the income-for-income pension, since people who have earned periods of employment pay a pension contribution in proportion to their taxable income. In addition, of course, this pension system is also based on the principle of insurance. What we are talking about here is a segment of the total retirement pension, which has not increased in nearly seven years, currently 28 500 HUF is the minimum rate of this pension. [[18.30]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that if inflation had increased in the last five to six years at least, we could already be talking about an amount of magnitude higher than what we are talking about here. I would also like to say to my fellow Members that it is the current retirement pension minimum, that this can be obtained in Hungary with a 20-year service period, or that part pension may be required for equity, but this also requires at least 15 years of service. In our proposal, we proposed that the current retirement pension minimum increase from HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000 from 1 January 2016. Thank you very much, fellow Members.
u2015-11-16-226	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now one representative of each political group can present his position in a two-minute time frame, as well as the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. First of all, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, please.
u2015-11-16-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Hungarian Socialist Party reminds honourable Members of the rejection that social respect for older people must be expressed not only in words but also in actions. At the level of words, Fidesz-KDNP politicians perform well. The few pro-government speakers in the committee are now saying that the Orbán government is doing everything in its power to ensure solidarity with all those in need. At the same time, according to sociological surveys, one in five Hungarians over 65 live in poverty or social exclusion today, and a series of research shows that this circle has expanded in recent years, and that those from bad situations have become even more miserable. The study already cited by KSH also points out that the smallest recipients are different from one region to another, reflecting differences in the employment of active workers, i.e. the highest rate in the most disadvantaged eastern counties. Here I would like to highlight one group: since 2000, the pension minimum of 28 500 HUF has remained unchanged. In this group, widow's pensions are typically recorded; the pro-government attitude is even more inhumane, since most of the time we are talking about retired widows who receive 28 500 HUF benefits. We just asked to raise a minimum, which means 50,000 forints a month. Well, you voted that off at the committee meeting. I think that this tells society everything today. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-228	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Tamás Sneider, Jobbik!
u2015-11-16-229	Mr President, Dear House, When we talk about this proposal, I think it is important to remember that there is not only poverty in Hungary in old age, but also workers' poverty. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right!]] And perhaps one of the main problems with this proposal is, while it is possible to agree, of course, that this amount should be increased - which Jobbik has proposed more than once - that such a rapid increase calls into question the fate of the other areas. After all, if we raise this to HUF 50,000, the public wage, which is around HUF 47,000, will certainly become less than the amount of the old-age pension itself. Or the minimum wage of 68,000 HUF will be barely different from this amount. And here is the point: this is not just a question of poverty in old age, but this proposal would raise a lot of other social support. For example, I will say just one of the many: it would also raise the property that would allow someone to benefit from any support on the basis of social needs. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: For example, if someone has owned more than 8 million 700 thousand forints, they did not deserve this. On the other hand, if this proposal is included, it can hold a fortune of HUF 15 million and at the same time it will be entitled to social aid. I would question this amount, for example, if it was right. But there are a lot of other things that could be said. So the point is that there is a question of support for the proposal as to the overall amount of the budget that it would entail. It would have been good if we could have seen this in the explanatory statement, or I could have had an answer to that, whether some calculation was made by the MSZP, because the MSZP would already want wages much higher than Jobbik, he said, and in addition, he stood next to early retirement, which was the opposite of his policy so far, since the age limit was just increased by him. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-230	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP, here you go.
u2015-11-16-231	The LMP faction also agrees with this proposal, which is to increase the amount of the old-age pension minimum, which will now be frozen for the eighth year. This is important in order to ensure a minimum level of living in old age, and it is also necessary to increase the amount of the old-age pension minimum, since the other benefits are also linked to this amount. By the way, the fact that the old-age pension minimum has remained unchanged for eight years now is a very good fit for Fidesz's policy of reducing social security and breaking down the social network. The May Other of Politics considers it very important for everyone to have at least the amount of pension needed to make a living, this is not the case at present, and this needs to be changed in every possible way. By the way, I would add that LMP's policy also includes a pillar that represents the guaranteed minimum pension, which would also provide a guaranteed livelihood for older people who currently have no income. So we agree that we need to increase the pension minimum and support the MSZP proposal.
u2015-11-16-232	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Kovács, Fidesz!
u2015-11-16-233	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We argued and did not support personally, and the committee did not support the inclusion in the series because, as my fellow Member, Mr Korózs said, the basis for setting pensions and calculating the minimum pension rate in the social system is two separate things, and in the original proposal, they did not want to include it, as he said. I would say, then, that it should be taken out of it, because if we are talking about the pensioning of people of real retirement age, it is not true that Bernadett Szél's statement about the freezing of funds is being taken into account in determining the pension rights and pensions of the person. And indeed, my fellow Member, Mr Sneider, is right, that if there is no calculation of the concrete proposal and the MSZP continues to maintain the impact of the minimum pension on social expenditure without counting, then we can certainly talk about serious billions, even fiscal adjustment. This is another reason why the Fidesz fraction and the committee did not support and still do not support the inclusion of the subject series. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-234	Thank you very much. Since I don't see any more applicants, I'll ask the author if he wants to respond. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-235	Very briefly, I would just like to say that we have 73,000 countrymen who receive an old-age pension, and this amount is less than HUF 50,000. If we were to raise 28 500 forints to 50,000 forints for these 73,000 people, this would require about 13 billion forints. I think that if there is HUF 3-4 billion to build the nation's boiler room, then there should also be a few billion forints to increase the retirement pension minimum. And I am very sorry if my fellow Members, the majority of the pro-government Members, do not support this. I'm not asking for this support for myself. I'm really asking those small pensioners, the 73,000 people whose pension, old-age pension, is less than 50,000 forints. I think it's the 21st. At the beginning of the century, it is a shame to say that someone's pension is set at HUF 28 500. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-236	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to exclude offshore businesses from the use of public funds and to exempt the public administration from offshore financing. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I'll give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Congressman András Schiffer, please. [[18.40]]
u2015-11-16-237	Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is an honor to have someone represent the government now; it is also a great thing, a small one must be appreciated. The fact is that two weeks ago, Fidesz-KDNP once defended old state security officers and agents; now the big question is whether or not the offshore knights will be protected. The situation is that the two things are related, because Hungary, after the change of regime, could be looted by the fact that someone had certain information monopolies at the dawn of privatisation; but this country was looted by the leaders, those who represented the economic, cultural and political elite, and had access to large assets, easily pumped out the vitality of this country through offshore companies. Hungarian government debt has migrated two and a half times to offshore havens since the change of regime. The situation is that you are very strong in words, less in action. There is not only the type of offshore that is prohibited by the Fundamental Law, so the so-called legal offshore, that the economic structure of a company is not transparent; the economic offshore exists, and in its latest bill, LMP A to Y, Andorra to Vanuatu lists this itemically. Because when we say that there are islands such as the very exotic Cayman Islands, for example, where for some reason they love the Hungarian residency bond business, which the world knows about, the global economy press knows that they are offshore havens, because there are simply tax conditions in these islands that make thieving politicians want to set up girls' businesses. We know precisely that when an investor in Belize, Saint-vincent, Marshall Islands, wants to buy a palace in Budapest, it is not really the fact that there is an increased interest in Hungary, Budapest, in Belize or the Marshall Islands, but it is some kind of oligarch explorer, a politician thinks that this is how he can get out of taxation. The bill with which the LMP is now going to the House for the second time treats the so-called legal and economic offshore at the same time. We say that the Hungarian national economy must banish the offshore knights, so it is not possible to register a company whose ownership background is not transparent, or the tentacles reach out to certain exotic tax havens. But we go further, we say that even György Matolcsy, a government organization, cannot conclude a transaction where money flows from the Hungarian state register or from the municipal budget to companies with offshore background. It should be prohibited to sell real estate to companies with different colours, orange, and carnation backgrounds; it should be prohibited when the central bank transfers serious millions of taxpayers' money to offshore companies for various wonder palaces. But let's keep going. The LMP's proposal also covers that persons with offshore interests should not be included in the public administration of state life. And here is the dog, because we have modified our previous similar proposal in so far as we would prohibit offshore interest in ministers as well. How can a person with offshore interests be allowed around public funds, in the area of public power? And we're moving on because we're also saying that different state tenders should ban both economic and legal offshore interests. So in Hungarian, if you really want to sweep the offshore knights, Andy Vajna must stand up from the office of minister, and the Garancsi and Vajna empire cannot apply for any state tender, have access to public funds and public property. Come out of the bag: for whom does Fidesz-KDNP, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers, or some offshore knights, the Garanchei, and Andy Vajnák govern? That's what they're gonna vote on tomorrow. If this proposal is accepted, it will no longer be the case that the offshore knight will become the minister responsible for the Hungarian national film industry; it will not happen that there will be an offshore rides in public procurement, concession procedures or other public and municipal tenders. If it is important for you to flourish the Hungarian national economy, then at least you will allow the House to negotiate on this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-238	Thank you very much. Now we're going to have group-by-group speakers. The first among these is Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2015-11-16-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Our Fraction supports the inclusion of this proposal on the agenda and subject-matter, and I am very confident that we can negotiate it, as Fidesz was committed to this matter in the near future in 2010, since legislation such as the National Property Act specifically prohibited the conclusion of contracts with non-transparent companies, and I recall that there was also a proposal, perhaps by Minister János Lázár, that such opaque organisations should not participate in the European Union's proposals. For example, Lajos Simicska admitted that the Public Machine was owned in the background after all. However, something has been broken here, something has been broken, because we have seen that, nevertheless, many contracts have been concluded with both the state and the municipalities that have reported offshore companies on the other side of the cooperation. That's what MET was like. His case, and unfortunately, Quaestor Zrt. was like that. It is also a case where municipalities have concluded contracts despite the fact that this was expressly prohibited by the law. And unfortunately, there has been no consequence of this, despite the criminal complaint that these managers or even the local government leaders have abused their rights and violated the law on national property, no matter what, no criminal proceedings have started. That is why we consider it necessary and important that this bill be discussed by Parliament and not only this, but also the case of so-called Hungarian option contracts with which Lajos Simicska and his associates have lived in the case of TV2; we are curious about how many of these hidden contracts are in vaults. Please support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-240	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik!
u2015-11-16-241	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The problem is that we hear nice words from the government, that the offshore needs to be broken down, that the money flows out of the country often in a black, untraceable way, but we don't see any real action, and the money flows out the same way that has happened. And this is supported by international statistics, András Schiffer quoted an international statement, which makes the current government debt two and a half times the amount that was stolen from the country in 25 years. By the way, we are the first in Europe, not in terms of the amounts stolen per capita, but in absolute terms. In itself, these numbers should also result in investigating what is, who has stolen this money, because the money is missing, not only we can see it, but also international organizations. Then, indeed, the settlement government bond could be mentioned, where a company registered in the Cayman Islands receives huge commissions and discount bonds. And then the Secretary of State, András Tállai, answers that this is how it goes in the private sector, asking for as many commissions as they want. For the sale of state sovereignty, the Caymanian company is asking for as much money as he wants. This is outrageous! And it's not a small amount of money, it's 50-60 billion forints, just the settlement government bonds. But I could also mention, my fellow Members, György Szilágyi and János Volner, that only they found the transfer of HUF 30 billion of EU money to companies that couldn't have gone with this money, because they are considered offshore companies. And then all you guys said was, if I remember correctly, you had to make a statement about transparency. Well, these companies made a statement, but no one checked. Well, here we are with the nice words, it is possible to make a statement, but the audit should finally be carried out, and that is why we can support András Schiffer's proposal and similar proposals in the future. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-11-16-242	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP. Here.
u2015-11-16-243	The fact is that Fidesz has announced that it is sweeping the offshore knights from Hungary, the fact is that it has made an alliance with them. I cannot explain with anything else that the May Other Politics must now bring before this House for the many times, which is also about the fact that a member of the government and a civil servant should not be allowed to go off-shore in this country. I think that every sober-minded person should think that people who are supposed to act as exemplary, since they are elected representatives of this country with a special mandate, should also engage in the tax community with Hungarian people, and that the ugly thing should not be that they take taxation elsewhere from a tax-optimization point of view, and that Hungary's budget will not be enriched in Hungary's business tax. And I'd like to say here that you've been playing a very nasty game for quite some time now, this is a mix-up of legal and economic offshore. It's clear that legal offshore is when we don't know who the real owner is. But there's the economic offshore that I'm talking about, that some people here in Andorra and the American Virgin Islands, Mauritius, Panama and other places are taxing. Now the May Other Politics has not been a rest, we have listed in detail which countries are, or rather I would say, tax havens that guarantee, so to speak, taxation that is in line with the concept of offshore, and we have listed it in our proposal. So whoever supports this proposal can be sure that there will be no tax optimization of the number of times the government debt in this country. And I'd like to put it out here that the fact that two and a half times our government debt has been carried out from this country over the last 25 years means two things. One is that in the last 25 years, we have not had a government that would regulate this issue with honor. And the other is that all the more severe cuts in the last 25 years could have been avoided if these people, who use this loophole, had a proper tax on it and had a comfortable way in and out. That's what we're trying to stop. We're counting on your vote. [[18.50]]
u2015-11-16-244	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz!
u2015-11-16-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say that, on 6 May 2014, the national legislation T/16 on the amendments necessary to exclude offshore enterprises from the use of public funds. T/4198 on amendments to the law on the exclusion of offshore enterprises from the use of public funds. The Parliament submitted a bill with the same content as the current bill. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why?]] It can be concluded that the proposal has not improved. The proposal covers the definition of a tax haven, which does not have a uniform definition in all legal systems. The list referred to in the proposal as a list of States considered tax havens, published by the European Commission in the summer of 2015, cannot be regarded as a single list adopted at European Union level. The choice of legal systems to be blacklisted can therefore only be made on the basis of thorough preparatory work and on the basis of specific objective criteria. The list was developed not on the basis of a common criteria based on an EU consensus, but solely on the basis of individual ratings of each Member State, so the published blacklist is not the official list of the EU. Based on this, Fidesz does not support inclusion in the series. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-246	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There will be a mandatory quota by the Council of the European Union for applicants for international protection... [[Dr. András Schiffer reporting.]] This would all follow if I did not have to give the rapporteur the opportunity to react. I apologize to the Parliament, I made a mistake. Congressman Schiffer will have the floor in two minutes.
u2015-11-16-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to say to Mr Hadházy that I thank him very much for his appreciation for drawing attention once again to the fact that we are presenting the same thing. Well, there's one thing the proposal has developed. You have a good friend, a good oligarch, called Andy Vajna, who, by some misunderstanding, runs a ministerial office called the national film industry itself. We're saying I don't really understand what a Hollywood producer has to do with the national film industry, but I do know that this gentleman's network is full of offshore interests. In view of this, we have added to this proposal, which you would like to recall, compared to the previous one, that no person with offshore interest should be able to serve as a ministerial commissioner. In the last 25 years, it has been said many times that wage increases are not possible in various sectors for social workers, health workers, educators, because there is no budget. But we say we have this source if it's not stolen. You and your ancestors have been idly watching and idly watching this country be stolen. If you were to fill these channels, if you wouldn't let your buddies pump the profits you're forgetting to pay off in offshore havens, then there would be money for social workers, money for raising the wages of health care workers. That's what I'm talking about. The money that can be saved by blocking the offshore channels stays here, developing the Hungarian national economy. It's about your Andy Vajna once received a HUF 5-6 billion gift from you every year for his toy tax, but on the other hand, there's offshore channels in his network, and that's why he's still giving you this brutal amount of profit that you're giving him. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You're not taxing this either. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-248	Thank you very much. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. And there will be a time for all of this, so we now have a consolidated debate on the proposal for a judicial procedure to be launched by the Council of the European Union in the context of a decision on the allocation of applicants for international protection by compulsory quotas. The submission submitted by Congressman Mátyás Firtl and his fellow Members T/7332. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the departure from the adopted house rule, 15 minutes for the opening speech, 15 minutes for the government representative's statement, 15 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 30-30 minutes for the group's speeches, 8 minutes for the opposition of the independent Members, 10 minutes for the national rejoinder. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gulyás Gergely, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The President's work was facilitated late, when, with an amendment, we gave the proposal the clear and clear title of the proposal to combat the compulsory resettlement quota in order to protect Hungary and Europe. If the Parliament supports this amendment, then posterity will be easier to find out about the original purpose of the proposal. We all know that on 22 September 2015, the Council of the European Union decided to consult the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. adopted a Council decision requiring the resettlement and distribution of 120,000 people in Europe, in order to ensure the resettlement of 66,000 people at the first stage by the end of September 2016, after which, in the next year, a further 54 thousand people should be allocated to the Member States of the European Union on the basis of a similar mechanism. We also know that the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament adopted this decision bypassing national parliaments. In doing so, the possibility for national parliaments to initiate the examination of subsidiarity in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Lisbon Treaty has been withdrawn. We believe that this decision is in breach of the law in a procedural sense, and that in itself is sufficient reason for the Parliament to oblige the Government to act before the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg in order to annul this decision. We believe that legislative acts cannot be overwritten by non-legislative acts. We believe that this is like interpreting the European Union's procedure to Hungarian law as if we were to amend a law by a regulation. This is unacceptable. This violates all EU principles, and it is self-evident on the part of the European Union that this mechanism has already been initiated in the ordinary legislative procedure. [[19.00]] Here, the Parliament also made use of a large majority to initiate the examination of subsidiarity, with the exception of the Socialist Party, which was supported by all parties. In this sense, I believe that political unity has been established in Hungary against the quota. However, more importantly, what is the purpose of the proposal and what is the intention of the proposers. The aim of the proposal is to establish a mechanism for which, by reference, it will be able to freely distribute immigrants, refugees and terrorists arriving in Europe between Member States, on the basis of the legislative act already tabled. We believe that this is completely unacceptable. What we see is that the European Union is still unable to enforce the European Union conventions which had previously become part of Community law. Thus, the Schengen Convention remains merely a written rule, but it does not apply in practice. Tens of thousands of people continue to flow to Europe every day, thus creating a situation for the European Union that can no longer be dealt with. This proposal may stand still on the paper, but in practice, we know very well that it will not stand the test of reality. There is no guarantee today that if this relocation mechanism were to take place, what would hold the transferred persons in the country which the European Union designates as their new country; if they once chose Sweden or Germany, why would they be satisfied with Bulgaria, Romania or even one of the Central European states. There is no guarantee that the enforceability of this Decision can take place in practice. We are convinced that in this sense we are talking about an idea in Brussels that cannot be put into practice in any way. But more importantly, when Hungary adopted the Constitution, it made it quite clear that it had made it perfectly clear to the highest legal standard that it was transferring only the necessary powers to the institutions of the European Union, in the form in which it exercised them together with the European Union. We believe that there is no common EU policy in the field of immigration policy, and it is clear that no one has ever delegated such powers to the European Union. And anyone who wishes to argue that this is a matter of asylum is in fundamental error because no one has conducted any asylum procedures for these persons. The people to be relocated have come into the heart of Europe, largely illegally, ignoring the common rules of the European Union, in the midst of the applause of European Union leaders for anarchy; they have chosen for themselves, in violation of state sovereignty, of the common rules of the European Union, a country which they like. Then, after these countries did not wish to enforce the common rules on border protection in the European Union, they did not ask for compliance with this obligation on those who have failed to comply with those obligations under Community law, now that they are in trouble and have become unmanageable in these countries, trying to help and trying to find a mechanism that is not just about 120 thousand people, but, as demonstrated by the next legislative initiative, would, in general, distribute people arriving in Europe across the long term. Now, people would only be relocated from Italy and Greece, but the proposal which, as a result of the examination of subsidiarity, was before the Parliament makes it clear that the aim is to establish a general mechanism that makes immigration unlimited and to distribute immigrants to the different Member States of the European Union, no matter how they relate to this process. Hungary considers this unacceptable. We also find the procedural infringement unacceptable, and we also find it unacceptable that this decision was made by circumventing the Hungarian Parliament. We find it unacceptable that the right of all national parliaments to examine subsidiarity has been removed during the procedure by the European Union, and we believe that the content of this decision does not fall within the area covered by Community law of the European Union, so that the European Union does not have a regulatory power in this area. Our clear message remains that Europe cannot cope with immigrants arriving here without limit. The only solution is to close the borders. The only solution is not to create unfulfilled Community law, but to require EU Member States to comply with our enforceable rules. If the European Union does so, by conducting asylum procedures, it is possible for those already present here to decide who is entitled to refugee status, who is entitled to refugee status and who, in the absence of it, should be deported from the territory of Europe. However, if this situation does not change and more than ten thousand people flow to the European Union every day, there will be no solution which, as a result of the airy development of internal borders, will make the distribution between countries enforceable and which guarantees that such a decision, even if it were in accordance with Community law, could be implemented. In short, in the opinion of the authors, this parliamentary decision, this law obliges the Government to appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg against the decision of the Council of the European Union, because this decision on quotas is unenforceable, meaningless and contrary to Community law in both procedural and substantive terms. I would like to ask my fellow Members to give this support to the government. Of course, the majority of governments alone are sufficient to adopt such a law, but the greater the support behind such a decision in a parliamentary democracy is good. If we can discuss such issues in Parliament and the greater the majority behind such a decision, the greater the legitimacy of the decision, the stronger the government's negotiating position and the more clear it is for Brussels and perhaps the Luxembourg EU court that we are talking about a clear issue, which cannot be decided otherwise, just so that issues falling within national competence must continue to be held in national jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-250	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. László Trócsányi: Yes, thank you very much.]] Minister László Trócsányi has indicated that he has 15 minutes.
u2015-11-16-251	Dear Parliament, Please allow me to express the Government's position on the bill before Parliament in the next few minutes. I would like to start by saying that the government agrees with the provisions of the bill. I believe that the fact that the Parliament has taken the form of a bill speaks for itself about the issue of legal action against the quota decision. This shows that the Hungarian Parliament intends to give a firm and clear opinion on the solution chosen by the European Union to address the migration crisis, and it wishes to state at the legislative level, with the greatest possible torque, that it considers the distribution of asylum seekers based on compulsory quotas to be neither an appropriate nor a legal solution. As soon as the bill is adopted, the government will not only be obliged to take action against the quota decision before a court, but it can do so at the same time by having the clear support of the Parliament. On the basis of the division of government duties, the Minister of Justice represents the Government in proceedings before the European Court of Justice, so it will be my responsibility, after the Parliament's decision, to ensure that the court action is drawn up, submitted and represented in a firm and consistent manner in the course of the trial by the Government and thus Hungary. In some respects, I am in a special position because I speak in my position as Minister of Justice, but as a professor of constitutional law and as a former constitutional judge, I am examining the issue in its complexity, in the context of sovereignty, the rule of law, constitutionality and European law. Honourable Members, Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. Since the first century, it has been known as a general doctrine that a state has three characteristics, three attributes, i.e. territory, population and supreme authority. This item is true even if a country participates in European integration on its own initiative. The decision on the population of the country is part of our sovereignty, linked to our constitutional identity, and we did not give up this power when we joined the European Union. Allow me, as a former constitutional judge, to quote from my parallel justification for the Lisbon Treaty. When Member States transferred part or the exercise of their sovereignty to Community bodies, they did not renounce the substance of their statehood, sovereignty and independence, and the free determination of the foundations of their state order. Member States have retained the right of free disposal of the principles of their constitution which are essential to maintaining statehood and constitutional identity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[19.10]] Even in compliance with international and EU standards, whom a country accepts and does not accept should fall within the competence of that country. There has been no record in history that a particular country has been obliged not to decide and accept thousands or tens of thousands of people from its own population against its will. On the other hand, we can give several examples of voluntary inclusion, so I can mention that Hungary voluntarily adopted a number of people to protect in the 1990s when the South Slav war started. At that time, however, we knew that we had to provide temporary protection, since they would return home after the war was over. Today, however, the situation is radically different. We are talking about the resettlement of persons whose possible return is extremely uncertain. They probably want to imagine their future in Europe. So when we talk about their reception or resettlement, its nature is not temporary, but rather permanent. As far as the so-called quota decision is concerned, it can be concluded that most of Europe's population disagrees with it and considers it impossible in practice. Based on all this, such an educated norm lacks social legitimacy. The social acceptance of a law is ultimately based on the extent and quality of the law itself which has been adopted in a given society. We can also say that the compulsory quota system and its social acceptance are as far apart as Mako is from Jerusalem. And what about the legal legitimacy of the resolution? The position to be taken in the trial is clear: the decision on the allocation of 120,000 asylum seekers between Member States adopted by the Council of the European Union on 22 September 2015 based on compulsory quotas is, in our view, an infringement. Moreover, this infringement does not consist of only one element. The decision and its adoption constitute a number of infringements which, individually, justify the annulment of the decision by the courts of all or part of it. Of these violations, as Mr Gulyás Gergely mentioned, the bill is in breach of the rights of national parliaments and the principle of subsidiarity. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] As can be seen from the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the decision was adopted without giving national Parliaments the opportunity to exercise the right of opinion provided for in the EU legislative procedure under the Lisbon Treaty when the decision was adopted. In this respect, the main question is whether the Commission and the Council have acted properly when it comes to the fact that the decision constitutes a non-EU legislative act for which national Parliaments do not need to be consulted. The government doesn't think that's the case. The quota decision shall constitute Union legislation in substance, irrespective of which Article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union is based, for which the right to vote of national Parliaments cannot be avoided. In the European legal order, as in the practice of the Hungarian Constitutional Court, the norm must be judged on the basis of content rather than form. It also raises serious legal issues to be considered, in addition to political and trust issues, that both the European Commission and the Council adopting the decision on a proposal from the Commission have ignored the clear decision of the European Council of Heads of State and Government. The European Council plays a special, priority role in the Union's institutional system, discusses key policy issues, sets out the Union's general policy orientations and priorities and strategic guidelines for the planning of legislative and operational programmes in the field of cooperation in justice and home affairs. As regards the relocation of asylum seekers, in June 2015, the European Council made clear in relation to the measures proposed by the Commission at that time that the decision on relocation requires a consensus of the Member States. Nevertheless, the quota decision was adopted in the Justice and Home Affairs Council without such consensus; several Member States, including Hungary, voted against it. The failure to take into account the decision of the European Council in June 2015 not only raises concerns about legality but also creates a poor precedent because it calls into question the way and level of the most important joint decisions taken by the Member States. It is particularly worrying that it is obvious that they have resorted to the Justice and Home Affairs Council to avoid a unanimous decision. As I have already indicated, the quota decision is a legislative act of the Union, irrespective of whether it has been adopted by the Commission and the Council under a new provision of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union, Article 78 (3) which in principle authorises the Council to adopt non-legislative acts. It is a necessary legislative act because of the content of existing legislation, Dublin III. amends Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. In addition to violating the rights of national Parliaments, it follows that the decision was not adopted on an appropriate legal basis but, in accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Justice, will lead to the annulment of the act. The question of the right legal basis is crucial in whether the Union has the right to adopt the measure at all. The Union shall not act without authorisation or on the basis of an inadequate mandate. This is a fundamental guarantee rule that is vital for the sovereignty of the Member States, since, in the absence of it, the Union could take over Member States' powers in new areas, without all the Member States having given a consistent and clear mandate to do so in the international treaties on which the Union is founded. In the case of the quota decision, it is the case that the legal basis chosen by the Commission and the Council was not appropriate for the adoption of the decision, although it was deliberately chosen to adopt it as soon as possible. Another question is whether the Union has the power, on the basis of another legal basis, to adopt measures for the transfer of asylum seekers under compulsory quotas. The Parliament, along with several other national parliaments, expressed doubts about the Commission's new proposal for a permanent relocation mechanism in this regard. It can also be concluded that the Council has committed two further fundamental procedural infringements during the adoption of the Decision. On the one hand, the consultation of the European Parliament was not appropriate, because the legislative procedure failed to re-send the proposal which the Council has thoroughly revised to the European Parliament. On the other hand, the Council has infringed a fundamental legislative rule of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union under which it could have departed from the Commission's proposal only by a unanimous decision. Finally, the legality of the quota decision can also be contested specifically with regard to Hungary, as the legal basis chosen by the Commission and the Council expressly empowers the Member State or Member States under migratory pressure to take action. It is debatable whether Hungary, as a Member State in such a situation, can be regarded as a measure adopted in favour of a measure which, by looking at it, only sets an obligation. In addition, the quota decision does not take into account the outstanding number of migrants arriving in Hungary until September 2015, and it is therefore questionable whether it complies with the proportionality principle. We trust that by considering these arguments, the European Court of Justice concludes that the decision does not apply to Hungary. There will certainly be some who will accuse us of a lack of solidarity in attacking the quota. I recommend to them the conditions under which the quota is to be accepted. From solidarity, based on a fundamental value, but in haste, by not complying with or circumventing the legislation, we have managed to make a rule, which is otherwise completely inadequate to achieve the goal. As they force us to enforce the legislation, we can expect the EU bodies, above all the Commission, to comply with it. This action is intended to do nothing but to comply with the rules applicable to it by the Union. Dear Parliament, As you can see from what you've said, I believe we have very serious legal arguments. If the Parliament calls on the Government to bring an action against the decision and the Government initiates proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the court must seriously consider our arguments and establish the infringement of the quota decision if it is to remain faithful to itself. The Government will use all means to eliminate this unlawful situation by means of the judicial procedure, and will support the Member States which have taken a similar position, as you would be pleased to see other Member States taking part in the proceedings on the side of Hungary as an intervention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-252	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here. [[19.20]]
u2015-11-16-253	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/7332 was discussed by the Legislative Committee on 16 November 2015. The Council of the European Union has adopted a bill on judicial proceedings in the context of a decision adopted by the Council of the European Union on the allocation of applicants for international protection by compulsory quotas, and has adopted in this context a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, four against and no abstentions. The National Assembly of Hungary - aware of the historical challenge of irregular migration today for the European Union and for Hungary, recognising and appreciating the efforts made so far by the government, supporting the protection of the country's borders and the establishment of a fence, condemning the failed immigration policy of the European Commission in Brussels, rejecting the compulsory resettlement quota, because the quota is pointless and dangerous, would increase crime, spread terror, endanger our culture; and, according to international law, no sovereign state should be obliged to accept and assess an application for international protection submitted in another Member State; subject to Article E (2) of the Fundamental Law, which sets out the scope of the powers of Hungary through the institutions of the European Union - a law. In particular, it should be noted that the Council of the European Union adopted its decision to allocate applicants for international protection on the basis of compulsory quotas by disregarding the principle of subsidiarity and by not giving national parliaments the opportunity to express their views. In order to express the need to act against this decision of the Council of the European Union through all the legal instruments provided for by Union law, including the judicial path, please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-254	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here.
u2015-11-16-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I am saying what we agreed on and I would like to highlight two elements. One is that what the European Union has done so far in migration and immigration is equal to the big zero. We also agree that we do not want to see the quota system and we do not want to adopt it. However, there have been some points where the debate on the proposal has developed and we have therefore not been able to support the proposal. One is that we believe that, despite the debatable usefulness of the proposal that the Union would like to put before us in order to solve the problem, or that it would like to oblige the Member States to do so, however, whether or not it should be included in the principle of solidarity, given, of course, the principle of solidarity within the European Union, that Hungary should once accept two thousand people or not. This was one of the points of discussion at the Legislative Committee meeting. The minority opinion advocated the possibility that two thousand people could be accepted once. This is what Hungary can do for the otherwise huge amount of benefits of our membership in the European Union, but it cannot go any further. In other words, it's a one-time and unique occasion. By the way, the introduction of a quota system where Hungary is forced to accept an indeterminate, indefinable number but a large number of migrants is not acceptable. The other, in which there was a debate about the role that should actually be played by the proposal before us. Some of this has become a professional debate. As for the political part of the matter, if you will, as far as its usefulness is concerned, in our view, who represented this segment of minority opinion, we have said that what is in the proposal for a resolution is hardly good for anything, to say, almost nothing. Instead, a bill - or perhaps it would be better in the form of a proposal for a decision, but this is already a matter of detail - should be adopted by the Parliament, which requires the government to have a duty to represent at government level in European Union fora. We wanted to see those criteria in the amending proposal and we would still like to see them, and we would like to ask the Parliament to accept this, which is actually useful, if you like, in opposition and pro-government positions, at least that is what I think of the elements contained in our amendment proposal. We agree that I have not heard much of other Members' speeches so far than that the issue of migration cannot be resolved at Member State level. This needs to be addressed at EU level or even more, in a more serious global context, such as with the involvement of the United States. It is therefore necessary to set this direction for the Government to represent Parliament in Brussels. Not because it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people that a Hungarian MP is primarily important, but, as I said at the committee meeting, sometimes the enforcement of the interests of the Hungarian people can be achieved through a community, an EU direction. We believe that the best way to effectively represent the interests of Hungarian people in Hungary on the migration issue is to try to find a solution at European level, and this sentence is not contrary to what I said when I said that the European Union has not done much in the migrant issue and in order to resolve it, besides organising conferences and discussions. But how he should do it, and how the solution would be there, is true. That our proposal for an amendment proposes this with the wording of elements which have already been formulated by the government, in our view, would bring much closer to the solution than a simple one, if you like, rejection or rejection, which is contained in this law. The other, in which there has been a debate, and this is linked to what the Minister has expressed in his speech for quite a long time, whether the subsidiarity principle is infringed by the European Union's obligation to Hungary, which he wishes to express, of course, to the other states. In our view, it does not violate the principle of subsidiarity. It is without prejudice because, first, Article 78 of the Law on the Functioning of the European Union clearly gives the European Union the power to develop a common asylum policy. While Gergely Gulyás, my fellow Member, considers this to be irrelevant, that asylum policy, migrant policy, is no longer in the sense that the procedures have not yet been carried out here, and these people have come in without knowing what their status is, but I think that their status can be found if we carry out the procedure, and from then on we can talk about refugee policy and the rules related to it, which may fall within the competence of the EU. That is why it does not, in our view, violate the principle of subsidiarity, especially in the light of Article 5 (3) of the Treaty on European Union, which I have presented there, literally; I am ignoring this. [[19.30]] I will not do that.(19.30) One thought has come to mind: it is very interesting that while the Hungarian Prime Minister believes that Greece is handing over the protection of its borders to the European Union, which also implies a solution that goes beyond the Member States, it does not violate the principle of subsidiarity, while asking Hungary to do so violates the principle of subsidiarity. Well, here we are discovering some incoherence with regard to the government's position. These were the arguments, Mr President, which were expressed as a minority opinion. I ask that we continue to discuss the law in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-256	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. First, the speeches of the Members who have applied for writing will be followed by Mr István Németh Szilárd, Mr Fidesz, first of all. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I must admit, I thought that this debate could not take place in the light of the events in Paris on Friday, but I do see that the world has not changed very much, or has not changed very much, the position of those who, at the beginning of the problem - just going back to the beginning of the year - represented the same position, which is philosophical, ideological, nowhere leading, arguing and practically on the side of illegal immigrants, serving their interests. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Did you listen to what I said?]] On the other hand, the Hungarian people's self-defense reflex worked well, because when they made the national consultation that the Prime Minister initiated on this subject an object of all kinds of sarcasm, people felt good about the answers to those ten or so questions, and these answers were not only heard but accepted and even represented in the Hungarian Parliament, as well as the members of the government and government at meetings and assemblies of various international organisations - European Union, UN. And that was quite clear, because 1 million 100 thousand people gave their opinions in this consultation, and the opinions were 90 percent and 95 percent standard deviation, so people made it clear by a majority of more than four fifths that if Brussels is unable to defend Hungary with the policy it represents in relation to immigration, then Hungary must defend itself. They also made it clear that they felt that there was a difference between refugees and illegal immigrants, because the opinion of the people was clear on the question of the need not to put illegal immigrants in the position, not to attract them to the European Union or to Hungary, but to support Hungarian families and Hungarian children. And it was also clear in terms of people's position - I think there were three or four questions on this - that the Hungarian people, I would like to stress this once again, have an excellent self-defense reflex, because, in the light of the events in Paris in January, they saw a correlation between illegal immigration, illegal border crossing, mass border crossing and terrorism. That is why the decisions that you have rejected here in Parliament have been taken, and even at the beginning of the summer many have taken this situation as a joke. For example, the mayor of Szeged said that he did not even meet illegal immigrants in Szeged, and renowned socialist politicians and former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány made all the measures practically a mockery. The package of measures that we first took - and that is what we represented in the European Union - meant to protect the borders of the European Union and then to discuss a joint action plan, then to discuss the solution, where to start, to suppress this illegal immigration, which is otherwise clearly organised. So the first thing we need to do is stop him at the border. Hungary has therefore done everything with the authority that people have given us. The numbers shown on these graphs [[He's showing it to me.]] , they make it clear that these measures were very effective, since 391 066 persons passed through us until 15 November, of which 8 were in total yesterday, and if we look at the various border locks, such as the Serbian-Hungarian border closure introduced in mid-September, and the Croatian-Hungarian border closure existing from mid-October, then it becomes clear that illegal immigration in Hungary has virtually ceased. Not one person came through the Hungarian-Croatian section yesterday, five people were captured on the Serbian-Hungarian border, and three in depth. If we look at the report of the Ministry of the Interior of Zagreb, we are surprised, because we have protected slightly more than double the number we have just said, because 392 191 migrants have left Croatia and so many people have been registered in Croatia since the Croatian-Hungarian border closure existed. This means that we have saved the country from more than 10,000 illegal immigrants a day with this measure. However, the danger has not passed, because the main danger is the enormous mass of illegal immigrants in the process of migration in Europe. But there is another very serious danger, and this is the policy of Brussels and Balliberal politicians, who practically lure these people here, to them, to a better existence, to European civilisation, to European economic and social well-being, and to talk about all kinds of opportunities open from above. I think we need to fight these two together. By submitting this bill, we are fighting both of them, because it is obvious that the mandatory resettlement quota that they want to put on our necks - as Minister, Professor, has said, and has been said by the speakers before me - is unlawful, pointless and completely dangerous. In fact, there is nothing more to say about injustice, but I think the most important thing is that they do not want to allow it, the Hungarians determine who to spend their lives with, who to install, who to acquire citizenship in Hungary. I would like to withdraw that right from us. His senselessness, I think, is pretty clear that if you can think in quotas and the prognosis is five to six years, then we are not talking about 2 thousand or 20,000 people, we are talking about this multiple. In five years, they could install virtually one segment of illegal immigrants in Hungary, and this does not yet include the vision shown by the secret services. The Constitutional Protection Office is involved in the conduct of proceedings as a administrative authority, and they talk about six or eight times the visibility. For example, a family reunion means that six to eight times the number of people - if we count 20,000 - can come after every settled person, and if we multiply this by five, this could mean not only one szeged, but several szeged thousands of immigrants in Hungary. It is also dangerous; I think, in light of the events in Paris, it is clear how dangerous the export of terrorism is. This has also been published in the new text, making it quite clear that there has been a new time calculation in Europe and Hungary since Friday. That is why we have launched a joint action called "Protect the country" - which has already been supported by over a quarter of a million people across the country - which clearly rejects the compulsory resettlement quota which, as we may say, is a suicide attempt on Europe's existence, against European economic and social security and against European culture and democracy based on Jewish, Christian, Greek and Latin traditions. I therefore ask all my fellow Members with respect to consider this bill, the message of this bill, its mandate and its vote, please support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-258	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Vona, leader of the Jobbik faction. Here.
u2015-11-16-259	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it will not surprise me if I start by saying that Jobbik will support this proposal, because I have already had the opportunity today, personally, to express our position on rejecting quotas. [[19.40]] Jobbik rejects quotas, and we consider it very important to always add that it also rejects the institution of deportation. In this regard, too, I think it is worth clarifying the Hungarian position already. But I also think it is very important to say that we should do this fight against quotas and deportation not only with words but also with meaningful steps. If you are not offended by my fellow members of the Government, because you have seen our constructive attitude, what we recognise here in a very small circle today is that a lot of show elements are coloring your policy in the fight against quota. So it doesn't reduce the actual steps, but there's more of the show element. Gergely Gulyás himself said here in his speech that, in essence, the government should not have asked the Parliament right now, but he considered it important, and Fidesz, to talk about it now in Parliament, asking the opinion of the opposition parties, in the sense of parliamentary democracy and by its beauty, to be as empowered as possible. It's been a pleasure listening to this, by the way. No misunderstanding, we are pleased to be able to talk about this position in addition here, but we would really like to see this kind of generosity in other cases, in other matters, and humility in respect of parliamentary democracy. For example, it could have been shown today when we wanted to bring our amendment of the basic law on Jobbik's referendum initiative to Parliament, to submit it, to bring it to the Parliament meeting, but you swept it off the table. The Prime Minister has also expressed himself quite firmly and harshly here today during his speech before the agenda. If I remember correctly, he said that as long as the government can breathe, there will be no quota or deportation in Hungary. We were happy to hear that, but there was a little bit of wormwood in it. For in many of us, the memory may have been raised when Prime Minister spoke with the same determination that as long as he is in government, as long as you are in government, he will not obtain foreign land in Hungary. Well, we've seen that this period has come, and you're still in government. So I very much hope that on this statement, Prime Minister, you will not catch up with him in your own time. There is therefore a need for real action on the quota, on the rejection of the quota. There has been a lot of talk about why this quota is bad, but if I may, I would also like to say the position of Jobbik and my fellow Members. The quota is a bad proposal, a bad solution proposal from the European Union for migration and immigration, because instead of preventing this harmful process, it encourages this process on the contrary. It sends an invitation letter to Asia, Central Asia, Middle East, Africa, North Africa, Black Africa, and says that there is no need to dilemma now, no need to lament now, the mechanism is in place, it is safe to come to the European Union and each one of you will receive a new country according to this mechanism. Some people are Hungary, some people are Germany, some people are throwing what, but they can still become citizens of the European Union. I think, in the current global political, international context, that, let's say, sending such a message to sub-Saharan Africa is seriously irresponsible. This quota proposal is also unfair, since Brussels, Berlin, has conducted an incredibly stupid immigration policy, and when it realizes that this is not working, it will try to spread its own problem, its own damage, among the Member States of the European Union. I have a feeling, living with a metaphor, like someone throws a house party, goes down to the square, yells out there that I have a house party, it's cool to come, it's gonna be a huge party, they're gonna go up to this happy-happy party, they're gonna enjoy being there, and then when they ask the host how and where we're gonna sleep, then the host says they're staying with the neighbors. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] And when the guests say, "Well, the neighbors won't like it," he says, "We'll give them a mandatory quota." This is about how Brussels and Berlin are trying to deal with us, that they are trying to dip us into a problem that we had nothing to do with. This is not Hungary's fault that Europe is affected to this extent by immigration, but that this is the result of Brussels and Berlin's completely stupid and completely unreasonable policy, which is completely separated from sobriety. This quota system is also inoperable, as it is difficult for me to imagine in the European Union how to reconcile the functioning of the free movement of persons as a basic EU principle with the system of quotas. How can they achieve that, say, immigrants placed in Hungary or in different Member States based on quotas really stay in that Member State? To this day, we have not yet received a reassuring answer to these questions. Perhaps the LMP had the spicy suggestion here, which was trying to cut this Gordian knot, but I think that this is not the direction that we should take Europe's future. But most importantly, this is what Szilárd Németh spoke about as the speaker of Fidesz, that it is life-threatening. Exactly since the events in Paris on Friday the 13th, I think that is now undeniable. In my speech today, too, when I responded to Prime Minister's speech before the agenda, I said that, of course, immigrants are not terrorists, that is clear. But it must also be said, and it must also be understood that terrorists are immigrants. Some may arrive here already in the process of immigration with a terror intention, but they may also be immigrants who are looking for a new home, but then they will not find the calculation of what they hoped for, become frustrated, angry at the European society in question, and thus become a very good target for all fundamental Islamic ideology. Unfortunately, we have to say, as much as the Balliberal parties are reluctant to do so, and they may hope that immigration will be able to regenerate their ever-increasing voting base, immigration will go hand in hand with terrorism. So if we want to protect Hungary from terrorism, we must also protect ourselves and Hungary from immigration. And if someone wants to protect Hungary from immigration, they must protect it from quotas. I can join or join Szilárd Németh in so much that, since last Friday, I do not think there is any point in adding this debate here anymore. Anyone who hasn't understood why they have to refuse quotas since last Friday will never understand, I'm afraid. Returning to the steps of the government at that time, you have taken a lot of steps that Jobbik supports. But once again, let me stress that there is something between these steps that has the power, the effect of which is quite limited. The collection of signatures that Szilárd Németh talked about is very nice, and we support it ourselves, but this is not the reason Brussels will start when we announce the success of the signatures, for which we wish good luck, and, as I said, we support it. The national consultation is not such a tool either. The appeal to the European Court of Justice is, of course, a more serious instrument, and we do not dispute that, which is why we will, of course, support the proposal, but let me say that I am not right, but I have a strong enough scepticism in this case to show us how successful this case can be. And one more thing. If Fidesz really rejects the quota, it would be good for one of its speakers to say that then the world quota proposal was off the agenda. Because, of course, the world quota is a more beautiful-sounding or cosmetic suggestion of the original absurd and sin-bad proposal, but it is also not good. So thank you very much, I don't want any of the world's quota, and it would be good if the representatives of Fidesz said that, or at least I hope they say it, and they acknowledge that this proposal was caused by sudden shock, and now they don't mean it. But what is important, and most importantly, I think that Hungary, if it goes to the European Court of Justice, but this initiative fails, then it seems that the government does not have a plan B. I think there must be a plan B, and this could be a referendum, a decisive referendum. This does not exist, or at least its legal possibilities and conditions are disputed, but in this connection we have tabled our proposal, our amendment of the basic law, which I spoke about at the beginning, and what you have refused to allow to go on. But once again, I am asking you, and I am trying to build on your sense of reason and your legitimate sense of fear, to consider the possibility of a referendum, the possibility of a decisive referendum, because this could be a means of clarifying Hungary's position and determining the leeway of the current Hungarian government in terms of quota and deportation. You will not always be on government, there will be an election in 2018, Jobbik would like to be on government, and so it works, and if we are on government, of course, there is no need to fear that a more moderate policy on immigration will be implemented in Hungary. But I'd like it to be that way after that, or ever. Whoever comes to government, the Hungarian society does limit it by a referendum in its area of manoeuvre, and make it clear to him that neither quota nor deportation can be possible in Hungary. Now let's really think about it, let's not make it happen, just think about the possibility that the MSZP or the left is on the steering wheel right now. That is why I ask you to really consider the possibility of a referendum. Now I repeat myself, but this could be Plan B, which could give Hungary a solid background in the fight against quota, and it could have one more important and positive consequence: perhaps it could set a precedent in Europe. After all, Prime Minister has said that Europe must be given back democracy. The possibility for people to assert their views in the European Union should be restored. After all, the European Union, let us say it, operates on the basis of anti-democratic mechanisms. [[19.50]] The referendum is the best instrument for this, and if Hungary - now it may sound very bad, but - can be a pioneer and can make a breakthrough in this for the first time, then perhaps other countries will also be encouraged, there can be a referendum in other countries, and then finally the common majority of the European Union can send its quota proposal to a dump in history, as they say. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-260	Congressman Imre Vejkey, KDNP, please.
u2015-11-16-261	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 22 September 2015, the Council of the European Union adopted a decision unilaterally deciding that 120,000 immigrants from Italy and Greece should be placed between Member States until September 2017. This decision was rejected by our country together with several other countries, but the decision is that the European Union would place almost 1300 people in Hungary at the first pace. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is against the law that the European Union has sent the draft decision to the parliaments of the Member States as non-legislative acts, thus rejecting the possibility for the Hungarian Parliament and the elected parliaments of the other EU Member States to express their views on the draft Council decision. On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that European decision-makers have committed an infringement in accordance with the procedure they apply, and it follows that the decision itself is openly illegal. It should also be made clear that the provisions of the EU Decision contradict those of Dublin III, which is currently in force and adopted by national parliaments. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). In addition to illegality, the European Union's decision on compulsory resettlement quotas is both life-altering and unenforceable, and we must therefore fight at all levels against a decision that would oblige Hungary to deploy migrants and immigrants. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the above, it is of paramount importance that the Council of the European Union initiates a judicial procedure in the context of a decision on the allocation of applicants for international protection by compulsory quotas T/7332. Bill No. 1 obliging the Hungarian Government to appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to request the annulment of EU legislation on resettlement. Ladies and Gentlemen, From Brussels, we are required to open the gates for resettlement. Hungary, however, will not do this, nor will it allow us to have resettlements or deportations by immigrants, those who have arrived at the invitation of Angela Merkel and European left-wing politicians and are arriving in Germany continuously. From the outset, we have complied with EU laws and protected Europe's Schengen borders, despite the fact that the EU still does not allow common border protection in completely defenceless Greece, where immigrants enter the EU for the first time on a continental basis. Ladies and Gentlemen, We will not allow Brussels to pass all this on to Hungary as a consequence of its dangerous immigration policy and of the European Left. Remember, too, that not only is the quota system illegal and unenforceable, but there are exceptional risks from an epidemiological point of view. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, It is impossible for migrants to return to Hungary under the Dublin agreements, who first entered the European Union in Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy. The fact that some countries do not comply with Dublin agreements does not mean that the Dublin agreements remain in force does not mean that they should be applied and that no EU Member State can rely on unlawful conduct to gain benefits. The introduction is a serious mistake, which runs counter to European law, the Hungarian Basic Law and the interests of Hungary. The quota system is also contrary to the European Treaty and other international treaties. In addition to the above, the quota system is also a matter of serious concern to Hungary's sovereignty, in particular as to whether the European Union is entitled to adopt the measures provided for in this Decision over the nation states. In our view, the answer is definitely no. I'm asking you to support T/7332 based on all of this. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-262	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer, head of the LMP faction, here you go.
u2015-11-16-263	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, When, a few weeks ago, another similar type of proposal was made on the Parliament's table to bring the draft EU proposal for the general distribution of asylum seekers to the appropriate decision-making forum, the LMP faction supported this initiative. This is not the case with this proposal for a resolution. I think it would be useful to examine a little bit of the fact that the global crisis, which is currently suffering from Europe, is in fact and in what way a very different type of migration situation than that faced in the last century or in the 1990s. The migration situations that even Hungary had to cope with during the South Slavic War or in the neighbourhood of the Ceaușescu dictatorship or even during the Second World War were quite different from the current 21st century. The migration situation of the century, because Hungary or other safe third countries knew precisely, could accurately measure the extent to which acts of war, persecution, were affected, and it could be estimated, as can be estimated today, in the case of Ukraine, the maximum number of refugees, the number of persecuted, and the maximum number of refugees. This is not the case with the current migration situation. Of course, we can agree that we must not allow masses into the European Union unchecked, but what the European Union is facing now has developed in an era where it is quite simply that the world has come together culturally, if you like. The crowds who are leaving today, there are those whose predecessors in the 1970s may not have thought that they would ever want to leave their homeland, no matter what famine they were subjected to, in order to find themselves thousands of miles away, even though they had a better standard of living, but to request entry into a society of very different cultures. Migration situations as referred to in Article 20 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 In the 18th century, the immediate, peaceful neighbouring area was affected. Today, however, we are talking about those who are on the road - the 400 000 people, according to reports from the Ministry of Interior, are made up of more than a hundred countries - in many cases they simply set out on the road with such motivation that the same cultural patterns are available to them as, say, citizens of the same age of the targeted countries. [[20.00]] That is why there can be a wave of migrations where people are present at the same time, who are really fleeing persecution, genocide and war - I am thinking of those who come from areas of Syria affected by terrorist organisations - there are those who are actually on the road, seeing similar cultural patterns, hoping for a better life, and indeed, using this crowd, there are those who want to carry out the intentions of fanatical, violent organizations against Western civilization. That is why I think that the biggest omission the European Union has made in recent months or, if you will, in recent years - and Hungary is a part of this European Union, Hungary's representative sitting at the European Council summits - is that it has not created a mechanism which is part of the 21st century. It is able to respond to the changed migration situation of the 20th century so that the bodies of the European Union can clearly distinguish between those who are truly refugees of war, who are really fleeing genocide and religious persecution, from those who, by the way, arrive on the territory of the European Union as terrorists with the intention of economic immigrants or quite simply acts of violence. Today, the European Union does not have the ability to distinguish between those who happen to be fleeing exactly the kind of terrorists who are leaving their homeland, who otherwise commit these shameful acts here in the territory of the European Union. Of course, there may be a question - and there are populist parties all over Europe that raise this - about what the European Union has to do with, for example, those who flee from war persecution. I would like to raise - without quoting Pope Francis or others who have spoken on behalf of humanism in recent months - I would like to recall that the situation that has arisen today in countries affected by war, terrorist organisations, is not independent of the European Union's policy, is not independent of the European Union's policy which, in some respects, is already a political unity, at least in terms of the Schengen area, border protection and internal security, and is not too far from these countries, from those countries, regions where I believe today, the responsibility of the European Union and the United States can be doubled in terms of these conditions. On the one hand, it is the responsibility of global large companies to constantly push the government of Europe's core countries and the United States towards a policy that increasingly strengthens global imbalances, since the voices that have come from Germany over the last few months have often been expressed with such considerations. As long as governments are encouraged, in the hope of profit, by various large European companies, to make room for cheap labour, these large companies think that they can make more profit with cheap labour, with the cheap and vulnerable workforce that comes not only from Asia, Africa, but also from Eastern Europe, where appropriate. This process, on the other hand, means that the central countries, the European Union, the United States and, where appropriate, Russia, not only want to take over natural resources in different African and Asian states, but also make it impossible for these states to have a chance of stabilizing, ever having an opportunity to create internal order and security, by draining cheap, but, where appropriate, relatively skilled workers. It is a responsibility, while not an exclusive responsibility, but a serious responsibility for the European Union, which Hungary is a party to, and which is also part of, the Schengen area, for which the European Union cannot turn a blind eye when people in these chaotic countries are fleeing war persecution and terror. Another great responsibility for the European Union and NATO is that the war interventions that I risked were also not independent of economic considerations, crushed dictatorships, but also crushed functioning state machines in Africa, North Africa and the Middle East, leading to chaos and fanaticism at Europe's borders today. The decision-makers of the European Union and NATO have a serious responsibility in this, and this responsibility leads to the fact that, yes, we must protect our borders, but at the same time we must be able to distinguish between those who knock on our borders because they simply cannot secure themselves or their children's lives because of the chaotic conditions for which the European Union must bear responsibility. We must distinguish these refugees from those who really are economic immigrants or terrorists. This task has not been carried out by the European Union, and Hungary is indeed a party to it. I do not think the question at this point in the proposal for a resolution is whether, by the way, this draft or initiative from the Council of Ministers of the Interior violates the sovereignty of the Member States or not. I am willing to accept Minister Trocsányi's position on this issue, and the question is not whether, by the way, this proposal for a quota, which lies before us, is a sound proposal or whether it will solve this whole migration crisis. It is quite clear that this proposal is not a sane proposal and is not capable of resolving the migration crisis. Now, however, we do not decide whether this proposal is a good proposal or not, but we decide that, at least until an apparent decision, the appropriate Council of Ministers of the European Union has been able to fight, and Hungary, whose representative has voted against, may even risk sending a message to the European Union, in this situation, to the decision-makers of the European Union, that Hungary is otherwise not interested in any common solution. Our problem is that this appeal, whether the decision itself is correct or wrong, says that Hungary is not interested in any common solution. In response to the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda, I said that Hungary is interested in a common solution within the European Union. So far, in order to achieve such a common solution, Hungary has added nothing, but has been at the forefront of a process that shows that at the end, regardless of the initiative, the entire Schengen area will fall apart, and there will be no effective internal security cooperation that would guarantee the safety of Hungarian people. The problem is that if and if Hungary sends a message that we are not interested in a common European solution, we do not know - and this was not clear, clear government response - what will happen if, say, 50 thousand, 100 thousand people registered in Hungary are to be deported to Hungary. It is okay for Lajos Kósa to say that we do not ask for return, but my question remains that if Germany, the German Government or the various decision-makers of the European Union decide, after our recent decision, that it is okay that if you do not accept 1300 otherwise identified people, then you will get back 50,000 registered by you. What is the answer of the responsible Hungarian government? I go further: we Hungarians have an interest in having a European cooperation under joint command in such a threatened situation, a secret service cooperation within the European Union that also ensures that Hungarian bodies receive immediate information about the movement of suspected terrorists in the territory of the European Union. Was it modelled by the Hungarian government - and we have not received an answer in the last few weeks - how such a Hungarian move would affect a deeper internal security cooperation that would otherwise serve the security of the Hungarian people? [[20.10]] Because there should be no misunderstanding: the answer the Prime Minister has given here in his reply is that the terrorist acts in Paris are not related to any possible lack of cooperation between European services, so that was at least a rather bold statement. Of course, the investigation of the terrorist act on Friday 13 is obviously at an early stage, but there is already such serious news that perhaps the creation of such an organised terrorist act may have something to do with the fact that the flow of information between the services of the Union is not sufficient. Our problem is that every message from a Member State, which means that it is not interested in a common solution, and then we will solve it ourselves, is simply in a group of countries such as the European Union, and I will go further than the European continent, including the associated Member States, which are otherwise transit countries, will create a completely unsolvable security situation. One-sided steps and one-sided fence building policies will simply not be sustainable. If and if Hungary voted against, but does not challenge this decision by appeal, the worst thing that can happen is that these 1300 people are sent here. But I stress that Hungary has the opportunity in this case to control precisely these 1300 people, to monitor where these people are staying, what they are doing in Hungary. Hungary has the capacity for this. If we get 50 to 100 thousand people from the deportation, the same possibility for Hungary will be much, but much more limited. And one more thing: the question is no longer, Congressman Z. Carpathian, who we receive and who we do not. The question is not whether or not another fence is built at the borders of Hungary, the question is that half a million people are already in the territory of the European Union. Half a million people are in the Schengen area. The question is whether, in such a case, when these people may theoretically come to Hungary at any time, those who are actually refugees and those who otherwise arrive in the territory of the European Union for acts of terrorism are sufficiently prepared in Hungary to control the movement of these people. We LMP guys have some doubts about that. To sum up, I think that everything that is happening today at the gates of Europe, in North Africa, in the Middle East, all that has practically destroyed the filter states at the gates of Europe in recent years, therefore, European countries, the major European industry, the European Union and NATO are also under double responsibility. On the one hand, due to the serious violations of international law, in which Hungary was also an accomplice in the 2000s, and also because large European companies explicitly stimulate the process of draining cheap, untrained labour into their cash register. This process further strengthens global imbalances, and if there is no plan within the European Union for what will happen after the end of a conflict, such as in Syria, Iraq or the various North African or sub-Saharan states, if there is no plan for this, if Hungary's international development capacity is not willing to develop or increase, for example, it is possible to provide symptomatic treatments for these crises for a period of time or time. In this case, we don't know what happens the day after tomorrow. And because of the double responsibility of the European Union and of Hungary in it for what is happening at the gates of Europe today, we cannot shift responsibility, we cannot shift responsibility solely to Turkey, Lebanon, and we cannot avoid the responsibility to distinguish between refugees and economic immigrants in Europe and those who come to the European Union specifically for the purpose of committing crimes. The LMP has already said in the debate at the beginning of September and at the beginning of June that, yes, we cannot rule out the fact that terrorists are also arriving in the European Union with this mass, so we urged months ago that the correct procedures for distinguishing these individuals should take place. However, what we see here is that around the whole quota issue, there is a belief debate about the fact that there are those who, by the way, approve of the German government's policy, who believe that the quota system alone will solve everything. Of course, he won't solve anything. In fact, once again, we do not consider the current quota regulation to be a sane proposal. We're talking about 140 to 160,000 people, and the time has passed. On the other hand, we must see that, since the Schengen area is, from the point of view of internal security, we do not want it to be a unity, the European Union has acted together against these states, where this chaos has been created, and therefore we cannot shift the burden of this situation from a moral or security point of view. Therefore, we said in September that quota alone is, of course, not a solution. There are proposals for quotas that are particularly unusable or harmful, there are quota conversions under the general distribution system, some proposals that can actually function as an invitation letter to the sub-Saharan region or the central east, but this is not the issue. The question is whether there is a common European asylum procedure which replaces the current Dublin system, whether there is a common European institutional system, including common border surveillance, and whether there will be common European diplomatic steps. If the European Union can agree on these, then, of course, the solution could be part of a quota system. But if and if there is no agreement on anything that would provide a meaningful solution to this crisis, then I think that there will be inaccessible processes, which could, of course, lead to the fact that the borders of all Europe must be closed, but it can also lead to the collapse of the entire Schengen system. Which is why we would ask for greater consideration. It means that the Hungarian government will break up with the policy that many other European governments are pursuing, by the way, that they want to use this whole current crisis for an internal political match. They want to maximize the communication benefits from this story, and they don't care what the consequences of today's seemingly correct steps are the day after tomorrow. We fear that, while at present such a measure of redress prevents something that actually does not make much sense, it does not create an unmanageable situation for Hungary at all. On the other hand, it puts both Hungary and Hungary in an impossible position if other European countries initiate deportation and it is very easy to take away the chance of a common European solution. Without a common European solution in this world, in this Schengen system, the Hungarian government alone cannot guarantee the safety of Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-264	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Molnár, MSZP!
u2015-11-16-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Listening to Mr. Group leader in his previous speech, I have the feeling that he is the only one who has read and knows exactly what this debate is about today, and what the proposal submitted to Parliament by the governing parties and what the Ministers of Interior of the Council of Europe have decided on. After all, the arguments that have long been heard from pro-government representatives here are about a completely different quota. First, we need to clarify what this debate is about. This debate is about the majority decision of the Council of Europe's Ministers of the Interior, which is a one-off transfer... - and even its name is misleading, it is talking about quotas. Here we are talking about a quota, if we call it a quota, a decision on the proportional transfer of approximately 160 thousand persons under refugee procedures to the Member States of the European Union in Italy and Greece, in proportion to their GDP and population. [[20.20]] We even share some of the arguments that my fellow Members have spoken about, in an absurd way, because we have doubts, fears, negative feelings and then suggestions on how to resolve this issue. But now these boots, my fellow Member, are not on the table, we are talking about something else. What are we basically talking about? We're talking about Dublin III. The regulation failed, politely speaking, and failed to fulfill its expectations. However, what would be the risk if we did not accept the decision of the European Council's ministers of home affairs and, by the way, the Republic of Hungary to carry out two thousand asylum procedures in two years, but said that we would also reject this one-off transfer proposal, this quota and Dublin III. Hungary would be in danger of having 176 thousand asylum seekers for Hungary... We can say that, under the return agreements, Hungary will not accept them, nor enter the European Union, but, fellow Members, Hungary is listed in their registration form as the first state within the Schengen area in the European Union. The government can say that they didn't, because they entered Greece. I ask with due caution and respect - but with some cynicism - whether those coming from Albania and Kosovo must have come to Hungary through Greece. Because I think that it is basically not, unless they started their first European tour through the Peloponnese Peninsula, through Bulgaria, through Serbia, to Hungary again. Therefore, what I do not understand is the rationality of not accepting a favourable, unburdening, little more than two thousand refugees for Hungary, exactly why we do not accept the one-off decision to proceed with the procedure. I would like to say that we are not arguing in favour of it, and I respectfully ask my fellow Members, the minimum tolerance to take the stage of understanding together that we are not talking about accepting a general quota - you have argued loudly and for a long time against the European Commission's proposal, which is known as the Juncker quota. I repeat, some of the arguments that many of you have made here are part of it, if not necessarily in that weight and in that style, but justified. This is why the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the general Juncker quota of the European Commission. At the moment, the quota, the system which is indefinable, which is mandatory for the reception of anyone, would allow automatic allocation is not eligible. But, fellow Members, that is not what this is about, it is now that the Hungarian Parliament is debating, by the way, a simple quota for which Dublin III is entitled to bring proceedings before the European Court of Justice. the alternative. But I would like to say that those who now say that they do not want to accept or carry out refugees in Hungary on the basis of a one-off quota or quota, what will they say if Germany, Sweden or other EU countries are in Dublin III. he says that Hungary is included in the registration form, until proven otherwise, we must take it back. Of course, you can say no to everything, it would lead to the end of the European Union and to the emergence of Hungary from among the European Union countries, the consequence of which this country will have to bear, for example, when the government manages a great deal of European resources and talks about the country's development and how much European resources give Hungarian people and rural people different opportunities. I would like to say that the Hungarian Socialist Party is on the side of Hungarian people and European people, and would like to be a part of a strong Europe, capable of protecting its borders and guaranteeing its security, but humane, persuadable by reason and conducting a fair asylum procedure. And not a two-speed Europe, where there are more European and less European countries, there are countries that do not comply with regulations that do not please them, which are Dublin III. in his shadow, they risk the arrival of an unrealistic number of refugees in Hungary, which would conjure Europe's world before 1945 with barbed wires and various mistrustful border guards. It's about national sovereignty. Yes, this transfer quota also represents the surrender of certain national sovereignty for 2200 asylum procedures. No more than that, I stress, we are not talking about the Juncker quota, but the formation of the European Union also meant a waiver of certain sovereignty, because the European Union was formed because the countries who joined it - I would like to say that the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party did not decide to join it in Hungary, but the Hungarian people decided to join the European Union, as did the accession to NATO. We therefore believe that these European values and these procedures can and can only be carried out and made on the basis of consistent solutions with the European Union. Thus, the restriction of sovereignty is reasonable, for a person is a member of this community because he transfers part of his sovereignty. Another question is that there are limits to this. For example, the European Commission's Juncker formula, its overall quota, has exceeded this limit and cannot be supported, and therefore it cannot be said that everyone who wants to be a refugee wants to come to Europe and accept it here and choose where they want to live. In this sense, I would add that Hungary is less affected by this type of immigration, since relatively few people mark Hungary as the ultimate destination. In fact, there are a few hundred refugees in the country at present, and Dublin III. This could easily go above 100,000. Therefore, with great respect, I ask my fellow Members to redirect the debate back to its substance, to make a better proposal than the one-off transfer quota decided by the European Union's Home Affairs Ministers; we will consider where the proposal to challenge this decision in court before the European Court of Justice will lead, as this promises; what will be Dublin III. the fate of Dublin III, because there must be an alternative to Dublin III, because it does not work; who assumes the responsibility that Germany once decides to live in Dublin III. the possibility of deportation under the regulation. I pay close attention and listen to my better fellow Members, who do not ask for any of them, although I have the feeling that they at least understand in this sense that we are talking about two kinds of quotas, but they do not ask for them, nor do they ask for Dublin III. Sometimes I get the feeling that they don't want any of the European Union either. So the question must be asked how do you think this question will be solved, how do you think to keep Hungary within Europe? These questions should be answered in this respect. Legally speaking, the question should be asked why the government has not taken responsibility for this decision; if it is already bringing it to Parliament, why we are starting a lawsuit that will lead to nothing good; and where is the government's proposal to replace the Dublin Convention, what needs to be done. Because it could only be understood if it was Dublin III. Instead, there is an alternative proposal. But the fact that we don't want a one-off quota, the transfer, and we don't want Dublin III, and we don't want any of this whole problem, it's an illusion. You will not be able to say that they are to be taken to Greece or anywhere, because on the registration form, I repeat, Hungary is listed. In conclusion, I would like to ask you to take into account that this debate and the Socialist Party's proposal are about this one-off transfer quota, which was the majority decision of the Ministers of the Interior of the European Council. We do not want, with due respect, to hear that the left has made a decision, the Socialist Party has made a decision, and would like to allow everyone into the country without restriction. We don't want to support the Juncker quota in this form, because we can't. Europe must first find a solution that covers the entire asylum system, covers the Schengen system, covers its financing, covers national security, security policy, police issues, funding all of this, a humane asylum procedure, a new Dublin III. instead of a deportation agreement, and then we can go back to what we can do in this situation. But until that moment, the European Commission's proposal, as the government's proposal to fight in a court of law, is unacceptable, ignoring the fact that it is Dublin III. failed, ignoring the 176 thousand registration pages, ignoring the fact that Hungary is not in the heart of the European Union, but is on the border with it, we are suffering from this type of Schengen registration Dublin III. A regulation, since we first meet the refugee wave as a peripheral country, is not sitting inside Europe on our laurels. [[20.30]] We therefore consider this debate to be irresponsible in this form, because it is not about what it should be about; there is no alternative to the European proposal that the Home Ministers have made, so we think that in this form we are part of a demagogic debate and not a debate on the real issue. Let's go back to what might be the alternative to that Dublin III and this transfer quota system. And what we think about the Juncker proposal, we'll argue about it when it's on the agenda, but let's not mix the season with the guy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-16-266	Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for this, please.
u2015-11-16-267	Mr President, Dear House, It is worth making clear to LMP and MSZP that if anyone is campaigning for any quota-like solution and says that 20 thousand is not acceptable, but 300 is, because it is easy to use a tracker or otherwise, we have opened not only the gate. Hungary would not only open the door if it did this, but it is simply not possible to say that the two things are an alternative to each other, so if you accepted a quota-like minimum solution, then you would certainly not deport thousands, tens of thousands. There is absolutely no guarantee that this will happen. Do not let the LMPs and MSZP representatives act in such a way that they want to take on a minor evil, while they are freeing to Hungary the autumn from which Europe has received the taste, and if Europe has cooked it, then I do not wish it at all to eat it. Don't take the consequences, because let's save the situation as much as possible. But the fact that Hungary, leaning its head under the gallows itself, takes on the consequences of this and participate in burdens that it has not taken any part in creating is quite outrageous. The degree of self-destruction is incomprehensible, so that we do not object to any decision taken by an EU body because, where appropriate, we are afraid of its consequences. If that is the case, then in Hungary we need not governments and parties, but a translation office, which will translate the dictatorships, which have been invented for us in Brussels, implemented in the Hungarian legal system, but mostly only as a translator. If we do not have that much courage, then Hungary's progress cannot be achieved. So the betterman rejects all quota-like solutions and says no to deportations because they obviously don't want to open the gate through which that spirit could come in from that particular bottle, and maybe only God could beat it out of here, but we of our own strength can only do it very, very hard. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2015-11-16-268	Congressman András Schiffer is next in two minutes.
u2015-11-16-269	Thank you very much. Now, let's get some things straightened out, Congressman Z. Carpathian. First of all, here, very rightly, Zsolt Molnár has just said that the story here is about a one-time transfer, which was decided by the Home Minister's Council. What is in front of the Hungarian Parliament is whether Hungary is seeking redress against this one-off transfer. That's all we're talking about. So I will not argue with you that Hungary obviously cannot pursue a policy of using a translation office instead of a government and automatically translating what is dictated from Brussels. You're right about that. For example, if there had been alternatives from Hungary in recent months, there would have been initiatives, we would not already be in such a diplomatic position. But I will go on: if, indeed, a few weeks ago, there was a general distribution order before Parliament, such a vote would be said, we would also say that we would attack it. So what you're trying to scare me with isn't relevant at the moment. It is simply that if it is not 1300, but the story goes on, Hungary still has the opportunity to appeal. Now, however, we stand to know exactly whether other countries are living with the institution of deportation. Two, what's at stake right now is that the entire Schengen system is going to fall apart. This is where Hungary has a responsibility. So in one pan of the balance sheet, it is there that Hungary should accept 1300 people, but in the other pan it is partly what Zsolt Molnár used to scare me with, otherwise it is not unfounded to send 170,000 people here, and the whole Schengen security system is falling apart. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what's at stake. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-270	Thank you very much. We will return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. First of all, Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz!
u2015-11-16-271	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament's agenda often includes proposals with an EU dimension, proposals for laws and decisions or international treaties. However, I believe that the item on the agenda we are discussing is special. It is special, since the aim is not to transpose an adopted EU directive into Hungarian law, but to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union for the annulment of an EU decision in the bill on the agenda. As my fellow Member, Mr Molnár, said that we should go into the original debate, I would like to follow this, and that is why I would like to remind my fellow Members that this is the first time since our membership in the EU that the parliament embodying national sovereignty has asked the executive authority to sue for an EU law. So we can see that this is a special situation. After all, under the relevant EU legislation, the Government may bring an action for annulment before the Luxembourg court on the basis of subject law. So the Parliament, by adopting this bill, which we are discussing now, can greatly strengthen the government's position as plaintiff in court by expressing its support. I would also like to remind my fellow Members that there has been a precedent recently that the Government has asked Parliament for prior authorisation on a matter which it had the right to take action. And why was this necessary, why is this parliamentary law necessary? Because the preliminary mandate of Parliament can, as a matter of fact, prevent future, future debates, as well as facilitate the implementation of the EU decision, and strengthen its social acceptance. That is exactly what Minister Trocsányi said in his exposé. I also remind my fellow Members that, more than three years ago, before the signing of the so-called fiscal pact, the Parliament, if I recall correctly, is the 4/2012. In its resolution No.12, he expressed his support for the Government's signing of the international treaty governing certain issues of Economic and Monetary Union. So the government is doing the right thing when it brings this proposal to Parliament, and the Parliament asks the government. This cooperation is exemplary in EU matters. Ladies and gentlemen, In the interests of clarity, it should also be noted that there are two types of migration quotas that can be distinguished at EU level and that frequent mixing is a problem. One is a so-called individual decision based on a Council decision; the other is a proposal made by the European Commission in September of this year, i.e. a permanent quota mechanism. The proposal is about a permanent quota; so far it is just a plan, a dangerous plan for us, but it is only a plan. T/3302. Therefore, the proposal for a law was adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 22 September 2015 (2015/1601). Council Decision on the request of the Government to bring an action for annulment for an individual compulsory quota decision. So that's what we're talking about. As regards the history of quotas based on an individual decision, given the much stronger flows of migrants than ever before and the shift of migration from the Mediterranean to the so-called Western Balkans route to Hungary, the European Commission has recently adopted a proposal, which has often been mentioned by my fellow Members, proposing a transitional measure to alleviate the refugee pressure on Italy and Greece. Thus, the Council adopted this quota decision in September this year by a qualitative majority, despite the fact that, at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, Hungary voted against with Slovakia, Romania and the Czech Republic when adopting a binding decision, while Finland abstained. [[20.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that by adopting the Council decision, the story has not ended, but continues here, because under Article 263 of the EU Treaty, any Member State may directly challenge an EU act or, as an intervention, take part in an action brought by another applicant in order to annul that act. In accordance with Article 263 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, an action for annulment may be brought, for example, on grounds of a lack of competence, a breach of relevant procedural rules, a breach of contracts or any legal provision relating to the application of them or a misuse of powers. That is what it is, ladies and gentlemen, that we are using the law to shoot back at the European Commission, the Council of Europe. What is being called on us, the rule of law, is what we are now asking for on the Commission of the European Union and on the Council. So it is not that it is not with some kind of individuality or just with special Hungarianism, but with the instrument of law that the Treaty of the European Union offers us as an opportunity, on this basis we would like to ask the Hungarian Government to take the necessary action. There's nothing more or less here. Ladies and gentlemen, We also know that the expected length of legal proceedings is more than two years, and we also know that there is no suspensive effect of filing an action, i.e. the enforcement of the decision is mandatory for Hungary even if it is requested by an action for annulment. It is therefore not the Parliament, but the government's responsibility and competence to draw up the application, and it is indeed the government that must establish the legal argument system that underpins the successful lawsuit. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important legal arguments on the plaintiff's side may be that the European Commission's draft decision was not sent as a legislative act to the parliaments of the Member States and thereby deprived them of the opportunity to comment on the proposal in accordance with the second protocol of the EU Treaty. This is indeed a serious procedural error which provides the basis for the judicial procedure under Article 263. By the way, we in the European Affairs Committee, in the so-called yellow flat procedure, have conducted this legal debate and stand clean before the Lord, and that is why we recommend that the government try to hold on to this, because it will be a major legal argument. Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House briefly to two other factors, closely linked to the subject that we are talking about. One is that we are not alone on this issue, the Hungarian Parliament, while the other: I would like to mention the emphasis on the growing role of the parliaments in the Member States. With regard to the first question, I would like to point out that Slovakia has already announced that it is planning to bring an action before the European Court of Justice against the Council decision 2015/1061. In his speech last week at a college in Bratislava, Robert Fico reiterated that Slovakia was going to attack the decision of the EU's home affairs ministers on the refugee quota at the European Court of Justice this year. Of course, other countries can join the action, the Slovak Prime Minister pointed out, who expects support from Hungary and Romania, for example. I quote: at the moment, the technical preparation of the text is taking place, and the date on which the action is filed is 18 December. We'll keep the appointment. We're filing a lawsuit. , said Robert Fico in his lecture on the relationship between the migration crisis and European law in the higher education institution. The other issue is the growing role or growing role of national parliaments in the European legislative architecture and the latest proposals on it, such as British ones. It's worth counting on, too. A few days ago, on 10 November, Prime Minister David Cameron officially indicated what British needs he would like to adopt as a negotiating basis with European partners, and, if we look at it, there is a high priority in protecting sovereignty from Brussels bureaucracy. So we did not invent the Spanish wax, my fellow Members, but, for example, the British Prime Minister emphasises this. Among the requests made in the section of the Prime Minister's letter of sovereignty, I believe that the real novelty is the granting of new powers to national parliaments in relation to EU legislation. We must accept this to the maximum, because the protection of national sovereignty is indeed a matter for the national parliament, and it is our responsibility to call on it, as we did before, to warn the European Commission or to warn the Hungarian Government. Well, there are no specifics yet. In addition to the so-called yellow flat procedure provided for in Protocol No 2, the British Prime Minister proposes a new procedure based on the participation of parliaments, which could lead to the blocking of the legislative proposal. So here I do believe that whatever the outcome of the British European Union negotiations is, but one thing is certain that the role of national parliaments in the European legislative mechanism will increase, and that we, the Hungarian Parliament, have a dog's duty to take advantage of it, because that is our task, which is what the voters have given us. I apologise, so we are not talking about some kind of cursing or Hungarianing, but we are simply taking the rights of the European Union seriously, not just the way it is, but the way legislation works. We have simply read the Lisbon Treaty several times, and we would like to take advantage of this opportunity provided by the Lisbon Treaty. Well, we do not know the details yet, but it can already be said that the new type of involvement of parliaments in EU decision-making would also affect the powers conferred on the institutions by the Treaties and the decision-making of the EU itself. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the Fidesz faction, I can safely say that we are ready for the effective exercise of the available and possible new parliamentary powers. Success won't depend on us. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-272	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2015-11-16-273	Mr President, Dear House, I would ask my fellow pro-government Members not to take it personally, but I am very pleased that they have now read the Lisbon Treaty several times. We know that this was not possible when it was ratified, because the official translation was not ready when Fidesz and the MSZP voted for it. I don't want to tease you because I basically support the direction you're going. Even if I think it is a beauty patch, they give the dying person a cosmetic step, an aspirin practically, so it is not certain that they will cure him with this, but let us not reject any steps that can improve Hungary's positions in the European force field, and in this case these positions can be improved. What is worth talking about, however, is that one of the quota-like solutions raised several times by MSZP and LMP is a one-off event with a reduced number of people, so let us say that a braked foam solution, in the case at hand, can cause Hungary to face a mass of deportees in the future. I'm saying the two aren't necessarily a necessary alternative to each other. [[To Dr. Zsolt Molnár:]] I'm not sure with one, you think it's likely, I think it's entirely unlikely that we can protect the other with one. The fact is, therefore, that what I am saying is going to be very strange, but in this sense, the Dublin Regulation is now working for us to see that some of its clauses allow the final host country in Western Europe, under certain conditions, to effectively inherit the responsibility for the assessment of the incoming migrant. I am not saying that the Dublin Regulation would be good or should not be revised, because history has gone above it in all respects, it should be thrown to its waste heap. But I'm saying that some of your provisions will reduce the number, so you can reduce the number of people we face in the case of deportations to below 100,000. [[20.50]] The standard professional calculations are realistic to 40-50 thousand of the number that Hungary has to face, and this is still an alarming, huge number. We Jobbiques say for a reason that zero tolerance in the area of return and zero tolerance in quota-like solutions are not acceptable because they cook something similar in the witches' kitchen in Brussels and actually lead it through a Member State that is considered peripheral without resistance. But we also say that we are very surprised that some of the forces that hold themselves liberal and philanthropic do not object - not to say that with foaming lips - against quota-like solutions, but in any case louder. What are we talking about? CHAPTER XXI We are talking about the violent resettlement and retention of groups of people in Europe in the century, a completely lifeless solution, which is impossible, but still involves the violent resettlement of groups and masses. I would expect the forces that call themselves liberals to protest the loudest against such methods. Of course, Jobbik does not want to see any migrants in Hungary. We also need to see that we're talking about deportations, which is at least as dangerous. Tell Fidesz-KDNP about what happened to more than 700 people who were sent back from one of the Western European countries or returned to Hungary as migrants this year! Or talk about those inmates who might say, say, that there are only 74 people in Martonvására, we're talking about detainee and migrants. But it is no coincidence that we, Jobbikos, are not only approached by the staff who guard them and the local residents, but many of the members of the official bodies are also unnamed in receiving hours, that they are afraid that if only these 74 people want to be caught up in an act that violates Hungarian law, they may not be able to hold them back. It's just that the system they've come up with is wrong. I say this despite the fact that the Hungarian law enforcement forces have, in my view, performed out of control in the border, and can be said in general on this issue. Therefore, the government should clarify itself in any case and in relation to what it plans to do with those who are now residing in Hungary. And at all, if they were to send anyone back here by quota, what would the MSZP plan be, say, with 300 or 1300 people deployed here by quota? We'd keep it at the expense of Hungarian taxpayers, obviously tend to them, take care of them? What would these people do? [[Attila Mesterházy: They would work!]] Would you show up on the labour market, then live in closed camps, guard them with armed guards? Otherwise, they'll run back to Germany for their own diasporas. You may want to do this under the radar, but you don't want to install groups of people in Hungary anymore, because we don't want any of this, we won't let you. That is why we say that since we see more than 90 percent of society in Hungary expressing similar ideas, we also need a wider stand. Therefore, on Wednesday at 6 p.m. on Lövőház Street, we are waiting for everyone in front of the European Commission's residence, and once again, not only Jobbik sympathisers, who wish to take action against quota-like solutions, want to defend Hungary. I would also like to say that this social support of over 90 percent will sooner or later shift to the political sphere of action. Obviously, this is where the 20th century will be separated sharply. 1st century and 21st century parties working in the 100th century. It's no coincidence that Jobbik is XXI. He listed himself among the parties of the century on the basis of the fact that, within the framework of a decisive national referendum, we want to ask the opinion of Hungarian citizens, all Hungarian voters, so that the people can decide directly whether they wish to contribute to the resettlement of ethnic groups from a foreign country in Hungary. However, in order for a similar national initiative to go through without legal concerns, the Fundamental Law of Fidesz-KDNP needs to be amended. Jobbik will ensure two thirds of this initiative, but we expect you to contribute to this amendment of the basic law and ask voters about this issue of national strategy and socio-cultural deep fabric of society without exaggerating. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-16-274	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Schiffer to take his place. I'll talk to him and then he'll talk. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-275	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Z. Mr. Carpathian, I'd like to adjust Dani in that. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] We didn't bring this quota proposal here. This is a complete mistake! This is not a proposal from the LMP, not a proposal from the Hungarian opposition. This decision was made in the Council of Ministers of the Interior, and the Hungarian Government has brought here a proposal for a resolution to empower the Government to appeal to the decision of the Council of Ministers of the Interior. That's the thing. I also said that this decision by the Council of Ministers of the Interior alone is not a solution, and we disagree with it, but in the present situation, the submission of an appeal leads to a situation that we do not know the exact outcome of. This is about a one-time transfer, and I would like to continue to ask everyone to try to loosen up this whole set of anger against quota-like solutions. I continue to think that, in itself, the idea of a quota-like solution - to quote the words of the betterman - does not mean that there really is a solution to the whole migration crisis. But, on the other hand, we are in a situation where the European Union is in a situation where, yes, fundamental things need to be reconsidered. The issue of sovereignty is not being raised now, and it is not just a question of Hungary's membership of the European Union, but it was raised specifically in the area of border protection and internal security even when we entered the Schengen area. However, since the European Union is facing a completely new type of migration situation, and I have also indicated that the European Union, as a group of countries, has a responsibility in this regard, it must be part of the solution and that the solution may be part of a quota-like solution. To reject quota-like solutions in the first place is as botoral as to think that any quota decision has solved the problem. That's our position. One more thing: when I refer to the fact that the European countries and the great powers have a serious responsibility for what is happening, I would add only one piece of data: according to a survey by a research institute in Stockholm, between 2009 and 13 the global arms trade was 14 percent higher than in the previous four years. Among the largest exporters are the USA, Russia, Germany, China and France. The fact is, therefore, when we are afraid of acts of terrorism when acts of terrorism take place in the European Union, we must also face the fact that they are committing these acts with the weapons we export from the European Union. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] This underlines even more the responsibility of the European Union as a unit for what is happening at our borders. It underlines its responsibility for this group of countries to distinguish between those fleeing from acts of war and genocide, in which, for example, European powers are involved through arms exports, from those knocking on the door of Europe in the hope of prosperity, or actually wanting to carry out acts of terrorism here in the territory of the European Union. We claim that this task has not been carried out by the European Union in recent months. It must be done, and Hungary cannot lead the policy of unilateral action. We believe that the submission of this appeal in itself means that Hungary does not wish to participate in the common solution, whereas on the other hand, however bad this Council decision of the Minister of the Interior does not create a situation that would otherwise be unmanageable for Hungary. Repatriation will be unmanageable for Hungary, and the situation will be unmanageable if the Schengen system collapses and collapses. I think that is what we should consider when we are discussing such an appeal. Once again, I would like to add what Dani said earlier. [[Defiance.]] that, when the debate was on the general distribution order, the position of the LMP was clear: we support the government to have a preliminary review procedure. We supported the government to have a general distribution system that will determine for the long term how this crisis is handled by the European Union, and, where appropriate, this general distribution system also acts as an invitation letter, and we will look in advance at where the boundaries of competences lie between national parliaments and European decision-makers. [[21.00]] This proposal is about a one-time transfer, and we cannot say it from a moral or security point of view, and Hungary refuses to think about any quota system, either now or later. In this case, it means that Hungary does not want to take any part in having a common European solution to the current migration crisis. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-276	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-16-277	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is much to be said here in the debate, and there are many misinterpretations and slippages. I think that Jobbik should take the courage - and make no mistake, this is a legitimate position - to finally say that they are preparing Hungary's exit from the European Union. It is important to say this at last because then their voters would understand what Jobbik is constantly saying in these debates. After all, what you are talking about cannot be achieved otherwise, unless Hungary quits the Union. This, of course, goes hand in hand with the need to explain to farmers, for example, those who receive land-based support, or to small and medium-sized enterprises who receive EU funding that will no longer exist. I believe that this is a dangerous route because 98 percent of development aid in Hungary comes from European Union funds. So when you keep asking the European Union that it dares to do things, you forget that by becoming a member of the Union, Hungary has accepted its Community legislation. And it is a misinterpretation that the European Union cannot impose binding rules on members of the community. I think it would be much better if we understood that Jobbik is preparing this way, because on the other hand, rights and obligations should go hand in hand within the European Union. What we are talking about in the European Union - that is what Zsolt Molnár spoke about in his speech as the lead speaker - is that it is not just the money to be taken from the European Union, and that it is not only then that we have to love resources on the basis of quotas - because I would like to say that money is also distributed on the basis of quotas, and now, without going to the specific issue, I would say that almost all the mechanisms of the European Union are based on quotas. So it is not from the devil that the European Union is also trying to act on the issue of asylum on the basis of quotas, because the European Union is acting in a similar way on the issue of operational mechanisms or resource allocations. There are different parameters for this, but this is done on the basis of quotas. So we think - that is what my fellow Members have been talking about, and I understand that this is what András Schiffer was talking about - that there is a need to distinguish between a permanent mechanism and a one-time solidarity-based act on refugees. This is important because the people we are talking about because of this one-off act of establishment are fleeing right from their countries, which, two or three days ago, hundreds of thousands and millions of people in Paris were terrified because unfortunately they were in a situation where they sensed what terrorism meant in their own skin, in their own environment. That is why I am saying, and I think that this is a correct position when the MSZP faction says that we must be in solidarity with the refugees who fear and save their lives. In addition, we will immediately add what Zsolt said - when we call everyone by their first name - about what Dublin III is. We do not support this regulation. We've been saying that for months. The first communication of the MSZP was about Dublin III. Regulation No... shall be suspended. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You can't suspend him!]] But it can be suspended, the Hungarian Government has already done so once that Dublin III has been suspended for three days, after which the Hungarian Government explained what the Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács talked about at the embassy in Austria, and then both Austria and the European Union asked the Hungarian Government for clarification. Thus, in special cases, Dublin III may be unilaterally suspended. the implementation of the regulation. But we said more than that, and we said that this legislation should be amended, because this is not the situation that Dublin III was designed for. regulation, which is why this cannot be observed. If we see that Greece is constantly being violated by Dublin III. It is very difficult to expect anyone else to comply with the regulation and then from other countries. I therefore believe that the 1300-1400 people who would be displaced are not a group of people or groups of people - I don't know how, perhaps, they have been labeled as a group of people - but are refugees that we believe Hungary deserves and should accept. But the mechanism for this to be a process, for any number of refugees to come to Hungary or to another EU country, for example Germany, so that this should be a permanent establishment mechanism for years, and we say that this is not a good thing if it is not added to the protection of the Schengen borders. Because you can also think in a mechanism, only in a visible way it doesn't work in practice. We therefore say that this mechanism, the so-called Juncker idea, does not, in our view, correspond to reality and does not, in our view, correspond to the interests of the European Union. So we are in favour of a one-time relocation, resettlement system, a one-off act, but a system that makes it continuous and unlimited both in time and in reception capacity is indeed unimaginable and cannot be achieved in this form. On the basis of our own proposal, we supplement this by adding that Dublin III. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 should be amended. What the Prime Minister said today was difficult to understand, because, on one hand, in his speech before the agenda, he said that we were the only ones who complied with the EU rules - that is what I heard from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and all the government speakers - and today I heard from the Prime Minister that we do not know how many of the refugees were involved without any control by potential terrorists. This means that Hungary did not comply with this measure because it did not register people entering its territory, fence or no fence in the story. But let's put that aside. The point is, Dublin III. A new, clear regulation in this respect needs to be amended and adapted. The third question that is important is the Schengen system. We think that, and we can already see it, because the British Government's Minister of Interior said weeks ago that this debate is moving in a very good direction in the European Union, because it should also be put on the table that, in fact, the free movement of European Union citizens should be limited, and the British Prime Minister has also made a proposal to the European Union, Brussels, in this respect. The problem with this is, as with fences, that if they draw such a fence between Austria and Hungary and everyone closes behind national borders, then quite a lot of Hungarian citizens are in a very bad situation, because tens of thousands of people from Sopron and the border are going to work in Austria, and it doesn't matter what border controls and other obstacles they get to work through, and how many extra hours it takes. That is why we are saying that we must be very careful about these sentences, especially what the government is talking about, because there is already a British position, there is already a European Union Member State that makes the groundwork of Schengen, the free movement of people, questionable. This, in our view, not only transforms or shakes the foundations of the European Union, but it also offends Hungarian citizens and Hungarian national interests, as everyone already knows that it may be stereotyped that more than 500 thousand people are working in most EU countries, and one of the main targets is certainly the United Kingdom, England, but Austria, as I have just mentioned. The other thing I don't understand is that the government is more gallant with Chinese immigrants, namely Chinese immigrants who pay money to emigrate to Hungary to settle here. We're talking 1200-1400 people here. I asked the Ministry of the Interior where they told me that a residence permit was granted to 2,700 people in three years, based on the interests of the national economy. [[21.10]] These 2,700 people were joined by 4,700 family members. Of these, 2,500 were Chinese nationals and 4,000 were Chinese nationals. That means it's 6,500 people. In addition, with a Russian nationality of 160 and about 320 family members from Arab countries together, more than 150 and 300 family members. The number of specifically established permits was 850 according to the Ministry of Interior, and then, 1400 members of the family arrived with these residence permits. Please, if groups of people, as Jobbik and people with other cultural backgrounds are unable to process on the basis of Fidesz's sentences, then I do not understand how we can process this roughly 6-8 thousand people who arrive from other cultures. Just because they're paying, does that mean they're acting different? So your culture is forgotten and you can integrate right away? Well, probably not. Now, of course, I wouldn't encourage the government not to accept these people. I would urge you not to do it on such a residency bond logic, but on something that is not enriched by offshore companies, but I think Hungary can cope with this immigrant crowd. Not to mention that even if we put all these aside, about 500 people/year of refugees came to Hungary. I'm only telling the good guys that. So every year about 500 people, in all the years before the refugee flow, were about this magnitude who were granted refugee status in Hungary. So in Hungarian, we didn't really have a year in which someone didn't want to ask for refugee status in Hungary. It's not a huge number, but in three years we've got the 1500 we've just talked about. And as far as I'm concerned, Hungary and Hungarian society were able to deal with this trauma, which is what 500 people/year mean, without sufficient shocks. The other is that if Jobbik says that they are leaving Hungary anyway, Dániel Z. Kárpát said that they are fleeing Hungary, I do not understand what their problem is. If the idea is that people who settle here won't stay here because they're leaving, then I really don't understand what's wrong with these people. The problems that you are talking about, that you cannot fit into Hungarian society, that you will not appear, will be a problem in Vienna or in Berlin or Austria. So we continue to say, and I think that we have a realistic position here, and I think that the group of MSZP is in favour of common sense in this respect, namely expressing our solidarity with refugees, this one-off act of establishment is in our view okay; Dublin III. A new regulation should be considered and a different type of regulation should be put in place. And for the permanent mechanism, we say that it is neither in the interests of the European Union nor in the interests of solving the refugee issue. That's why it's certainly worth saying no. Third, it is important to be very careful that these processes, which appear in the debates in Hungary and in other countries of Europe, do not lead to the fact that Hungarian citizens will be drinking this by questioning the free movement of labour within the European Union, as did the British Prime Minister and the Minister of Interior of that government. Once again, I simply do not understand the type of reception crisis and the problem, and I do not see it from the lessons you have been talking about over the past period, because, once again, with a settlement obligation, this number has come to Hungary four times that number. Similarly, it has a different cultural background, other sociological characteristics, as you have said by groups of people. I do not see any problems in this which Hungary could not deal with. [[Németh Szilárd István: But these are 95 percent Chinese.]] I said that 95 percent of these are Chinese. What's the problem, Congressman? They are immigrants, not born here in Hungary. It's called an immigrant based on your terminology. We'll even have to pay back this bond, of course. I understand that this is a good deal for Fidesz, and I understand or understand why they are so attached to these offshore companies, while they have been riding off-shore all the time, but now we would put that question aside, because this debate will certainly have a place and meaning elsewhere. So I think that the MSZP has a clear position in this, and I think that this clear position is also worthy of support, so we will also represent it in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-16-278	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-11-16-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Well, here's a thing or two that needs to be fixed legally and mentally and in every way. First of all, Attila Mesterházy has given many thoughts to Jobbik, and we are very happy about that, of course. If we are in a club, we are a member of the European Union, it does not mean that we cannot take advantage of the opportunities that we have under the Treaties. It's not that we're going in, and then we have to accept anything, and they can wipe their feet, give us some money, and, of course, they take out a good part of it, and there's no balance sheet, but I wouldn't agree to that. The point is, we can live with the rules that are in the treaties. That's the point. That's the whole point of being in line with the law. Compared to this, the problem is that the Schengen agreement should have been respected. If all the countries had respected it, there wouldn't be such a crisis right now, because only refugees would have been allowed in, and the number of people who arrived as economic immigrants is far less than that. So what we are talking about is that most countries have broken EU rules. It is therefore difficult to argue that the problem is that a situation has developed that has had to be followed, but a new system must be established in the future. No. We should have followed the existing rules. In addition, it is said that Dublin III. A regulation should then be suspended on this basis - it cannot be suspended. You can't suspend - your execution can be suspended, completely unlawful! There is no right legislation to say that it is suspended. You can't do that. It can, of course, be amended in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. It's a long process. In this rule, that we suspend it in one case, again in the face of Dublin III, of course, this can be done, but on the part of the socialists, the argument that we should not implement the legislation is still quite strange. And then, in-house, things should be cleared up with you guys. After all, when István Hiller says that he can't do better than the fence, the internal tension starts, and István Hiller actually just said that the rules must be followed. They jumped at it like, let me not give you an example, like piranhas, when they smell blood. They jumped on it and called it in. They also called on the government and Jobbik when we supported the construction of the fence, and they asked for the defence to be deployed there, so how ugly it is that border protection is organised by the government, so how ugly it is to comply with the Schengen rules. So it's completely incomprehensible. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] And then, what we have here is a decision that, indeed, could not have been legally made in this form. It is necessary to read Article 78 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which clearly states that in such cases a transitional decision may be taken in the interest of the Member States and that a regulation on the basis of which asylum can be regulated should then be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. Now, we have a decision, very tricky on the part of the leaders of the Union, and they say that we are taking a decision for Italy and Greece, and we are going to spot you with everyone else. This is therefore entirely a misinterpretation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. They know in Brussels that this is not how it should be interpreted, but they say that we are doing it for the benefit of two countries, and we are putting the interests of the other countries in parentheses. This can be attacked, but it can be attacked in the courts of the European Union. It is true that Parliaments, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, did not have the right opportunity to exercise their displeasure by not sending them these laws. This, let us say, in the form of a regulation, if the regulation had been adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, it should have been sent. That's another thing, and by the way, turning to the government or the Fidesz, only the government can do that. Now that Parliament is making a law, it can actually mean a background support, or it can be said that Parliament has also discussed it. But the government can do that. [[21.20]] It states quite clearly that in such cases a transitional decision may be taken in the interest of the Member States and that a regulation on the basis of which asylum may be regulated should then be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. Now, we have a decision, very tricky on the part of the leaders of the Union, and they say that we are taking a decision for Italy and Greece, and we are going to spot you with everyone else. This is therefore entirely a misinterpretation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. They know in Brussels that this is not how it should be interpreted, but they say that we are doing it for the benefit of two countries, and we are putting the interests of the other countries in parentheses. This can be attacked, but it can be attacked in the courts of the European Union. It is true that Parliaments, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, did not have the right opportunity to exercise their displeasure by not sending them these laws. This, let us say, in the form of a regulation, if the regulation had been adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, it should have been sent. That's another thing, and by the way, turning to the government or the Fidesz, only the government can do that. Now that Parliament is making a law, it can actually mean a background support, or it can be said that Parliament has also discussed it. But the government can do that.21.20) The Government can appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union. By the way, you have 60 days, so if you count the two months from September 24, it's November 24. So I beg you not to try to file it in December, because in the press it was also published that they would turn to the court in December. Do not do this, because we will be late, or if other countries submit it, we may still have the chance, but this must be done by 24 November. Before the Parliament, we will discuss it, we will support it, do not say that we are wheel ties to the idea, but here the Parliament should not have been asked in the first place, but the government could have done so. I also didn't understand Andras Schiffer. I've tried to listen, believe me, but he says that if we have an appeal, so we use the opportunities provided by EU law, it says that we are not partners in the common solution. It's incomprehensible to me. If a decision is taken which is not only offensive to Hungary, but also does not comply with European Union law, and therefore the Hungarian Government, exercising its right to appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union, does not understand what the problem is. This has to be done. So we would demand that if they did not do so, and we are pleased that this has come up and that they will do so; that with or without parliamentary decisions, this is completely irrelevant in this regard. The point is, to sum up, that we do not want to accept quotas in the sense that they are a transitional provision. It is possible to open a door, to refer to it, and we see in this resolution just how the leaders of the European Union deviate from the legislation that they should comply with, in the same way, this transitional provision will be a reference in the future. So we ask the Government to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union as soon as possible, not to delay it, not to run out of time. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-280	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Congressman!
u2015-11-16-281	Excuse me, Mr. President, I just didn't hear my name. Actually, I just wanted to add what the Jobbinger colleague said, that, of course, we are debating the position that you are saying. We disagree. It goes without saying that in a matter of such importance, which we are discussing here, it is interesting that so many Members of the ruling party are involved in this debate, and there are almost more opposition representatives involved in the debate than there are government parties, which I could bear in the long term, if they were less people. [[Interviews from Fidesz: You're dreaming.]] However, that is not the case today. I think - I may dream, but you know, you people say that you have to dream big, so we do that - that it would be worth hearing the opinion of leading Fidesz politicians on this subject, how they think about it, because, after all, Fidesz is built up to tell you what to do. I'm really glad that Jobbik is worried about the internal policy of the MSZP. I need to reassure you that it's a long way from being your business. It is also clear that the MSZP is a party where there are different opinions on a particular issue, and I hope that this will remain so in the long term, because this may also be the basis for a kind of democratic operation. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: All we need is a voter!]] Once again - well, don't start with yourself, Congressman - we will continue to say so in Hungarian, and I will say so, and I expect Jobbik and Gábor Staudt to say that if you comment, tell them that you want to lead the country out of the European Union, because you have not responded to this. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] The congressman didn't answer that. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Gábor Staudt: I just said it wasn't like that!]] I understand that, so I understand that, where appropriate, you refer to all kinds of EU rules, but it is only so that the European Union has the right to make decisions that are binding on all its Member States. There are areas where Community legislation cannot and cannot have anything to do with this. There are many examples we can give. I'm gonna say again that it does make sense, and that's what we talked about. We didn't talk about it, and we didn't encourage anyone not to comply with the rules, but we encouraged everyone to do so earlier, and we encouraged the government to do so, that it is indeed a rule that is not good, which is contrary to European interest, which is contrary to national interest, that it might indeed be worth changing those rules. We believe that Hungary's role in the EU is not about acceptance, but, if I understand it correctly, you are also fighting for the need not only to accept what is happening in Brussels, but also to shape it. We therefore say that it is the government's job to shape this legislation, shape asylum issues, shape European Union and other positions on Schengen rules. Indeed, we believe that if this debate is not directed in the right direction, and we believe that the Hungarian Government is wrong, we believe that a stronger Europe can handle this issue, not a weaker Europe. This does not mean that Europe needs to move in the same way, because there are many criticisms, and it is also true that I should say something in which I agreed with the Prime Minister on his speech today, there was not a lot of things, but at the same time I am quite certain that there will be a lot of conferences and declarations at European Union level, but there will be no solution to this issue. So a little less talk and more action would bring forward the solution to this whole EU problem, the asylum issue. We continue to think that these quotas do make sense, that it makes sense to change the Dublin system, but only as a one-off act. So not as a gate opening, as you were about to interpret it, not as a failure to comply with the rules, but merely as saying that what is a bad rule, which does not work, should have an active role and role for the Hungarian government, and should also initiate changes to the legislation at European level, which is not in the interest of the Hungarian people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Neither the Hungarian national interest nor the European Union interest. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-282	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-11-16-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is interesting that when we heard such speeches from left-wing parties, such as Attila Mesterházy, from left-wing parties, which, by the way, are largely due to this situation, because they have been the ones who, for many years, have supported, for example, the great powers whose intervention has led these people to flee. [[Interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: Russia! Iran!]] Then it was these left-wing parties that, until a few weeks ago, encouraged these refugees to come as many as possible, and how good it will be for you here, just like Angela Merkel, along with her. Then you'd think... [[Interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: Angela Merkel is not left-wing!]] Do you know the difference between us? It is that we are not going into the united European Union that you want. After all, they are submitting an amendment, which is all about power towards a united European Union, the creation of a Frontex base with a common organisation, a common European force, an army, a common intelligence, a common asylum, but not yet a common European government and governments in the nation states have been written in it. But you'd think that you're just inventing, and maybe you're just unprofessional, like Zoltán Gőgös, who, two weeks ago, demanded the right to vote for Turkish women who have had the right to vote for 80 years. But let's just leave it at that, you'd think they might just be unprofessional. But no, because you realize when you speak, and I was glad that Attila Mesterházy spoke, because this was already mentioned at the TAB meeting, and then the socialists denied that he was like this, and now Attila Mesterházy has confirmed that we are right, because you are slipping and lying. What are they saying? That it's two thousand people. They say it's 2,000 people, that's all there is to settle. There's only one thing you forget, Mr. Congressman, that if you say that obligations have to be fulfilled, and you say now that Dublin III doesn't have to be fulfilled, okay, then you don't have to do anything else? Is the obligation of family reunification to be fulfilled or not, as required by the European Union? Then don't talk about two thousand people, because if we settle two thousand people here, we can talk about 12 to 15,000 people right now because of family reunification. You just backed him up! So what does it mean? So that you know exactly that, and not unprofessionally, but precisely that two thousand people are not two thousand people, so they lie and slide, but we can talk about 10 to 12 thousand people. Now, that's the MSZP right now. The MSZP still does nothing but work against the interests of the Hungarian people. Once you cannot think about what is good for this country, what is good for Hungary, and what is good for Hungarian people [[Moors and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] For all you've done is separate from Ferenc Gyurcsány, but you're still on the same platform, walking around the world with Ferenc Gyurcsány and writing out who they are all the time. You have been everything, like Ferenc Gyurcsány, one thing you have never been: Hungarians. The only thing that has never been written on their breasts is that I am Hungarian and follow Hungarian interests and take Hungarian interests into account. [[The First of Novak: Try it sometime!]] Unfortunately, that's the problem. That's the problem! This is the MSZ today, and we're not going to change as long as that's how you feel about these things. [[21.30]] But as you said, of course, you have ideas and everything, Gábor Staudt was right, there is one thing you need for this idea, a voter, and that is less and less for you. Thank you so much for listening. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Good job! Anita Herring: It was pathetic! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-284	Congressman Attila Mesterházy applied in order of business. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-16-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for personal assault. I resent that... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Gábor Staudt: You have to take the floor from him!]]
u2015-11-16-286	Congressman, there's no room for speaking on the basis of personal assault, this is not a matter of order.
u2015-11-16-287	... don't let a representative in this House declare a representative who is speaking for the good of the country.
u2015-11-16-288	It's not a matter of order. As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd.
u2015-11-16-289	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor to address some of the problems that have been said, which have been highlighted by my fellow Members, or to try to respond to some of the statements that have been made, which are not entirely clear. First of all, on the settlement policy, I would like to say that everyone who has a representative in the National Security Committee - and every parliamentary party here has a representative - knows precisely that this is the form where the highest level of state security and risk assessment is conducted against the buyer of the settlement policy. Those who come in here don't want to hang on the European social network, they don't want to be terrorists, they don't want to carry out acts of terrorism, they don't want to be trained soldiers. Once again, I would like to stress that they are going through the biggest screening, and often the Constitutional Protection Office also asks the opinion of the secret services of European co-operatives. They come to Hungary only to pursue their economic interests, to enforce their economic interests in relation to the European Union or to certain Member States of the European Union, to create joint economic actions, and more than 90 percent of these people come from China. The voluntary international quota or voluntary world quota is also, I think, quite clear. If we just look back at 1956, the UN divided those fleeing Hungary from the communist regime, the Kádár regime, on the basis of such a voluntary quota. By the way, these refugees were often in camps in Austria and Germany or northern Italy, thanking the Good God and respecting the laws and customs of those who host them, waiting for years to get to Sweden, Central America, the United States or not to give to God, Australia. We don't see that today, do we? Today we find that those who arrive, who cross the country, are unable to cooperate and do not want to cooperate with the authorities, and do not comply with any rules that should be observed, or even often falsify their own identities. They obviously know why they're doing this the best they can. In any case, this voluntary quota, also included in its name, would operate on a voluntary basis, would not impose an obligation on anyone, and it is obvious that we can imagine this either in the coordination of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees or in the coordination of the European Union, but in any case it would require that we even know how many people we are talking about. András Schiffer talked about 500,000 people, the German authorities are talking about 900,000, we have the idea that this could be more than a million, Attila Mesterházy 500 It was about a man, so no one knows exactly, the quota has been allocated to 166,000 people, so there's no way to know exactly what this is about. Firstly, you should be aware of how many people are affected, and I would like to emphasise once again that this is a voluntary quota. The referendum: my better fellow Members have also said that they feel that 90-95 percent of Hungarian society supports the border lock, supports the idea that we should not solve our possible demographic problem in the way bureaucrats in Brussels imagine it. So in this case, I do not think that there is a need for a referendum that is even legally worrying, but here the emphasis is not on the legal concern, but on whether a referendum should be held on such a clear and so unanimously, clearly supported case. In our opinion, this time has not come. What will the half a million or one million people who are already in the European Union do? Several people have said this, several of the governing parties have said that this is the problem, that they are already in, we have let them in, that is what we are talking about, that they have crossed the border they could not have crossed. But by the way, their control, their registration at all, I think it's possible in one way, I think, if everyone reinstates border surveillance, and we don't want that, because this is where it leads, precisely this policy will lead everyone to carry out border surveillance on their own responsibility, to check for who crosses their borders, national borders, and this will lead to the internal borders of the European Union, practically to the abolition of the European Union. The Secret Service said they didn't know anything, the Secret Service didn't cooperate. Once again, MEPs are sitting at the National Security Committee meeting, and obviously it is not a secret that there is cooperation, very serious cooperation. In addition, members of the National Security Committee may consult the Cooperation Protocol under specific conditions, but if we read today's MTI news, we can read, for example, among the perpetrators and organisers: Bilal Hadfi was born in Belgium and fought with ISIS, he has also been to Syria. Ismail Omar Mostefai, born in Paris, 29 years old, was also known to the Home Affairs Services. They knew that Ibrahim Abdellam was 31 years old, that he was a member of that terrorist cell, and that he was a member of the Muslims, where 80 percent live in one quarter of Brussels. And I could tell you more about the others, I could tell you the chief organizer, who the services knew practically everything about, and this is in an open material. So there's a lot of cooperation. But if you allow me another number, the number of arsons committed in Germany this year is above 700 - over 700 - and there are acts committed by extremists or by immigrants against immigrants or against citizens or against each other - crimes - which the German government has otherwise withheld from people. So we know exactly who has the responsibility. Not with the police, not with the border guards, not with the secret services, but with irresponsible politicians who, by the way, keep these acts quiet. Thirdly, I would like to draw attention to what I started by saying that the situation has changed since Friday and there is a war threat. The communication from the Islamic State, too, I think, is quite clear if I read only the last paragraph:, France and those who are on the same path, should know that they remain the primary target of the Islamic State. This attack was just the beginning of a storm, a warning. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, that's why we have to refuse that compulsory resettlement quota. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which strengthens this whole situation, which is proposed in the bill. That is why I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-290	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-11-16-291	In short, Mr President, what we would like to do is not only now, but also with regard to the governments at hand - and for this reason we would like to make a fundamental amendment - to put similar issues in the referendum. So we are thinking long-term, and we believe that if we introduce this into the Fundamental Law, it will continue to bind everyone in the future, and that if any government steps away from this and wants to push immigration issues that affect people, then it is possible to initiate a referendum. This is our most important goal, we are thinking in the long term, which is why we would have asked for your support, and if, let's say, KDNP gave us a few more minutes, we would be happy to continue. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-292	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, who wishes to comment at the end of the agenda for personal attack or personal involvement. [[21.40]]
u2015-11-16-293	I was told that my comment was not recorded in the minutes, because it was against house rules, so I asked for the floor after closing the agenda. I just wanted to say one thing to my fellow Members: I do not doubt that when you are debating this issue or any other issue in this House, you view it from the point of view of the Hungarian national interest or of the national interest that it considers to be of national interest. [[First of Novak: That's why Gábor Simon worked!]] I do not doubt that you speak in the interests of the Hungarian people when you express your opinion according to your own conviction. I would expect one and ask one of my fellow Members, especially those who, by the way, have honored this matter by being here in this Chamber. Let's not discuss this from each other. I say something because I feel equally Hungarian, but I believe in a different way, by which the Hungarian national interest can be represented more effectively. So I think treason on such an important issue will certainly not lead us forward. If there is a sound professional debate, this may also be a heated debate, it can always produce results that will help us to represent our national interests, the interests of the Hungarian people more effectively and better. So, overall, I just wanted to say that anyone who speaks in this House, in my view, I believe, is looking at these issues from the point of view of national interest, from that perspective, from that ideology, from the values that are the most appropriate values for his conviction. So, Mr. President, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2015-11-16-294	To conclude the debate, I give the floor to Imre Vas, one of the authors.
u2015-11-16-295	Thank you for the floor. I will try to be brief, because my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, has really answered a significant part of the questions, and I would primarily respond to opposition points, because he is the author of the almost full group of Fidesz-KDNP. It's about the referendum. It is worth holding a referendum on a matter where the position of the government and the position of the electorate differ, but I think there is no question here at all, both as a result of the national consultation and as a result of the collection of signatures initiated by the Fidesz faction, it is clear that at least 95 percent of society, but much more so, supports the government's efforts in this direction. My fellow Member Schiffer said that crowds should not be allowed in unchecked. Yeah, but if, say, 8 to 10,000 people cross a country every day, then there's no secret service on the ground that can verify that. With regard to cultural patterns, I believe that migrants and European culture are so far from each other that even in the longer term there is no chance of convergence. My fellow Member Schiffer called for a joint solution. Yeah, but quota's not the answer. So we agree on a common solution, but that is not the solution, because the mandatory quota system is illegal, unreasonable and dangerous. My fellow Member, Mr Molnár, referred to the fact that most of the people here are registered in Hungary. My fellow Member has also studied as a lawyer, and he probably knows the principle of Roman law that because of his own reprehensible conduct - I mean, first of all, Greece, who has not registered these people - he cannot rely on benefits. So someone can't claim that he didn't register, in violation of European law, and then claim that these people can't be sent back there, because they weren't registered here after all. Of the Kosovans and Albanians, I must say, I find it very difficult to imagine that anyone would be granted refugee status, since the circumstances in these countries are not so. Transfer and free movement. Free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. When a person is transferred from one country to another, I think he is in direct conflict with the principle of free movement. The decision adopted, which is not a law according to the regulation or legislation, is binding solely on the subordinate body, and I believe that the Hungarian Government, the non-subordinated body of the Council of Ministers of the Interior, could have only been by legislation or regulation in this case, and that is the only reason why the appropriate majority was not likely to have been complied with, the appropriate rules of procedure have not been complied with. And then it came up here that if we registered it, there's no national security risk. I mean, registration and national security checks aren't the same thing. The fact that someone is fingerprinted, asked when, where they were born, and a national security check, which the authorities do at the settlement, is not exactly the same. That is all I wanted to say here. I would also like to inform the Parliament that the drafters do not support the amendment of the MSZP, given that we would like to bring an action, we would oblige the Government to do so, and they would like to implement this resolution that we are attacking. Therefore, this was not supported by the authors. The amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, initiated by the pro-government representatives, is supported by the authors. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-296	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that there are 13 Commission reports still to be debated, with additional speeches after the agenda. If everyone talks about their time, it'll be until noon tomorrow. So I don't want to hold anyone back, just say we have to start the next meeting at 9:00. That's all I wanted to say before we moved on. And then let's move on. Following the 2014 XC on International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Law 17 and Act CXLIII of 2015 on Public Procurement Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/6985. can be found on the IT network. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] No comments. I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, rapporteur of the designated Foreign Affairs Committee.
u2015-11-16-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I will try to be very brief here, following the President's guidelines. Last week, the Foreign Affairs Committee discussed T/6985. and the proposals for amendments. The amendments were not adopted by a large majority, but the detailed debate was closed unanimously and the Commission report was adopted unanimously, so please support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-298	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-11-16-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not take advantage of the time frame either, but I must say why we cannot support the proposal, and I have to justify this in a few thoughts, because it is humanitarian aid and to clarify, to amend the legislation that provides the framework for such assistance. Unfortunately, our amendments were not supported, either by the commission or by the Legislative Committee's final proposal, and this would have been very important, highlighting two points. It is, on the one hand, that the overall administrative cost needs of international humanitarian assistance activities are planned as chapter appropriations in the central budget. [[21.50]] This is a very important, warranty issue, because it is possible to present a proposal that can be negotiated before the National Assembly, which may even be easier to amend, at the time of the adoption of the budget. And it will also result in more transparent spending during implementation. We believe that the objective of humanitarian aid, which is a nice and supportive goal, is no less important to Parliament than transparent or transparent spending by Members of Parliament, even by the opposition. And just in order to avoid misunderstandings, debates, or any aspect that may arise in the future, so that you can be basked on, that you may not have spent these funds the way you should have, and as I have said, the amendments can be better presented and negotiated when the budget is adopted. Why this is being amended, I do not actually know, or it has not been said in this form in the general debate, or perhaps it is just so vague that it is easier to modify. Well, you'd have to know in advance how much we're spending on these things. Or if there is a special situation, then the fact that we are talking about a chapter-based appropriation is not something that cannot be changed, so it would have been worth putting it in here. The other is a derogation from public procurement, which, in my opinion, may be a bit of a concern. After all, on the basis of the rules in force, the law on public procurement should not apply to humanitarian aid activities below the EU threshold if the competent committee of Parliament has taken a preliminary decision on these matters. This would be removed from the law, so it would automatically be excluded from the public procurement law for public contracts below the EU threshold, so public procurement should not be excluded in these cases. This would also reduce parliamentary supervision. The committee will not be included in the submission or exemption from the Public Procurement Act, and the argument cannot be that if a special situation comes in, because the commission must meet within a short period of time, the Members will have to meet, this is their main position, it is worth it to meet in the summer, but to operate transparently, on a sensitive matter like the discharge from public procurement. And one more point is that it is not only true that procurement in the framework of international humanitarian aid activities is exempt from the law and that committees are excluded from the law, but also that of international development cooperation. And in this case, it is no longer possible to say that we are talking only about humanitarian aspects, because, for me, in the framework of international development cooperation, a much broader definition is being included in the law, and I think that this includes not only humanitarian things, but also quite others. So, in a development cooperation, you can force almost anything with a little exaggeration. It should not be that you are exempted from public procurement or that, if you wish, you will at least bring it to the commission. So these are the points that we cannot support the proposal, although we naturally agree with the objectives, but in spending money, as I have said, parliamentary control is as important as where these money goes. It wouldn't be good if it changed that way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-300	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-16-301	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr President, to continue where my better fellow Member has left off, as I myself have tabled amendments to this bill. I would also like to advance the fact that the amendments were, of course, not supported by the pro-government majority, but nevertheless, we believe that this legislation is a right move in the right direction. So, for our part, we are in favour of the law, and the rejection of the modifiers does not change our final decision. However, let me say a few thoughts on these amendments, in view of the fact that other opposition groups have thought of the content of such amendments. Perhaps this also proves that it would have made sense to consider these amendments. The first is that we would have considered it important that if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had prepared a strategy for this international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid task, in the context of the law, we would have been pleased if it had consulted representatives of parliamentary parties or professional organisations, or had an obligation for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out a sort of consultation. The other amendment, which was about Hungary's need to pay particular attention to the interests of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, therefore we would have liked to have seen in this law a type of amendment that literally mentions it, so I said in the amendment that in doing so, it pays particular attention to the interests of Hungarians across the border and to the implementation of international humanitarian aid strategies and policies and concepts adopted by the government. So what I wanted to do in Hungarian was simply to get a clear priority selection, if there is any problem in Transcarpathia, or anywhere else in the Carpathian Basin, then it should be clear that the Hungarian government has an additional task in this symbolically. The third amendment concerned churches. I understood last year, when it was about this law, then the majority argued that, in fact, churches are involved in humanitarian activity through their civil society organisations, but I would also have considered it important for symbolic reasons if religious communities had appeared among the organisations listed in the law who carry out this type of international activity. In the same way, we would have considered it important if the government had prepared a report on this activity, so it would report in Hungarian on the work it has done on humanitarian and international development issues under this law. Then we can discuss this report in Hungarian or at the meeting of the relevant commission, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, or even in plenary, so that it can be submitted to the Hungarian Parliament. I think this would have increased transparency, even if the law correctly stated that it would be made public on the website, but perhaps this would be more of a kind of publicity to the world outside Parliament. And the last amendment I would like to make in two sentences is what my better fellow Member has been talking about. I think it's a well-functioning practice within the National Security Committee that when they want to exempt the Ministry of Interior from public procurement for some reason, for example, or the Ministry of Defence, then this committee will meet and give a mandate, an exemption. I'm pretty sure that would have increased the transparency. Originally, there was such a proposal in the law, but then it got out of it. I wanted to put this back, because the Committee on Foreign Affairs could have been available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at any time if it were a matter that should have approved the avoidance of, or exemption from, the procurement procedure. These were the amendments that, in many cases, could be seen through smaller, symbolic proposals, perhaps one or two, particularly a little more substantive glasses than the Public Procurement Act, but let me conclude once more with what I started: these amendments were not supported by the committee, the majority of the governors. Nevertheless, I think that the report presented by the committee, which my fellow Member will present, should be supported, and that we will support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-302	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-16-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll start with what Attila Mesterházy concluded, so that our attitude is clear. In addition, we regret the fact that the amendments that we consider to have improved and could have improved the way the processes were shaped have been blocked by you. In the context of international development cooperation and the assistance of humanitarian processes, as well as the joint negotiation of public procurement, we said at the hearing of the draft law, I will not go into deep analysis that there is some dissonance and contradiction. You know, there were two laws on the day when the public procurement process was negotiated, practically in such a way that the Public Procurement Act hadn't even entered into force at the time, and the other one's trial had already begun. [[22.00]] But let's leave it, that is not the point of the story, but rather the fact that it has already been said today with regard to humanitarian aid, but I must confirm that, in terms of funding, it would certainly have been a good thing if it had appeared as chapter appropriations in the annual budget and was separated from the law in practice. I think that this is a barrier to transparency and control. In addition to public procurement, it must be said and confirmed that now, when the EU thresholds do not have to be applied, so to speak, in certain cases, either in the context of foreign aid or in the context of humanitarian aid, or in the context of crisis management, this means, in a sense, a good way and not in a pejorative sense, for which we have often thought the government had a bad attitude over the past period. I'd like to finish two simple sentences. If we are talking about the fight against poverty, and that is what we are talking about - obviously we are talking about other kinds of assistance here - we have also talked about relations within Hungary in quite a lot of debates today. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this draft law and to the attention of the members of the government that the trend and trend that is taking place in Hungary in terms of progress towards poverty or even poverty requires at least as much care and attention as the management of national humanitarian aid within the framework of this draft law. So, I think you should focus on that, too. And my last sentence is that I would like to ask you with great respect that, although this was not clearly reflected in the draft law, when we list thoughts, actors, participants in the fight against poverty and humanitarian aid, we should have an exact and tangible opportunity to propose, and the capacity for meeting people who are able to play a role and want to play a role in this. In this I ask that, outside the draft law and beyond the adoption of it, everyone who can help us be provided with the opportunity. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-304	I don't see a candidate. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] Then the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Mikola István State Secretary if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[Dr. István Mikola stands up.]] I give you the floor.
u2015-11-16-305	Mr President, Dear House, I just want to say a few words. Thank you very much for your support and critical remarks. We wanted international development policy and humanitarian aid to be made more transparent with these amendments, which we presented in the draft. At a time when we are being called upon to be represented as chapter appropriations or even transparency, that is absolutely right, of course, but it must be taken into account that the political, economic situation is changing, there are a lot of crisis situations in the world, and they need to be matched. But this is not the hardest one, but it is just now being coordinated with the large development programmes put together by the United Nations after 2015, their implementation and financing are a huge issue, which also requires a certain global outlook. The Hungarian development policy, development cooperation and humanitarian aid policy must also be placed in this stream from Ebolacrizis to Transcarpathia. Of course, Transcarpathia and the Hungarian interests that arise in this big issue are treated as a priority. Thank you very much for your support. The critical comments are, of course, taken into account. We will strive for transparency, and we will show all the great marches on this subject, of course, in public, especially before the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-306	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The next step is the 1952 III Civil Procedure Act. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of laws of law and other procedural and judicial laws and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6980. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-16-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 12 November is the House Rule 46. T/6980. No III of 1952 on the Civil Procedure (Civil Procedure) a bill amending law and other procedural and judicial laws, and the committee presented 23 amendments and a summary report summing up three yes, three no and four abstentions. The motion of the Legislative Committee contains only the amendment of the Judicial Committee, which strengthens the possibility and obligation of electronic contact between the court and the parties acting in addition to codification and wording provisions. Of course, it is not easy to switch to one office from one day to the next, and the courts are no exception. I am sure that in the coming years there will be other legislative proposals that will help and correct this process. However, I believe that our constitutional obligation is the 21st century. Use the technical achievements of the century to modernise our administration and justice. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-308	The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-11-16-309	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I, of course, do not wish to repeat the arguments made by my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó in the general debate. In the Legislative Committee, the amendment was not supported by the MSZP, nor will it support the full proposal. It is not because - and this has been the case several times - that basically with the concept of a proposal, in Hungarian, that the achievements of technology, as my fellow Member has said, really must be exploited, and it is indeed a task of switching to electronic administration not only in the area of judicial administration or judicial proceedings, but also in all the forums and segments of public administration in general. However, we are meeting with the mistake - perhaps two or three days ago in another bill - that their proposals are unprepared, that I do not know how often we run into the fact that you set a deadline for entry into force, and then everyone sees that this deadline is irrational and unrealistic, but the law is passed, and then, of course, the new one that pushes the deadline, and in addition to these, in general, alters the various codification errors that have been made. Then even in the Legislative Committee, after this has happened in the Judicial Committee, they also modify codification errors. I think that this is not an apology, my honourable Members, because, as my fellow Member who expressed the majority opinion said, this is the case, but you have it too often. The problem is not that sometimes it is necessary to touch a law and clarify codification errors, but when the meeting of the Legislative Committee is not about anything but that, and it is not about anything else, it is just that they want to transfer early-introduced, unprepared, socially and professionally unconfirmed innovations, and they always run a loophole, it is a general problem. [[22.10]] Well, that's what we're dealing with here again. So it's not about what you want me to say again, it's about how you prepare it, and how you want to do it. I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members and, above all, the Government and the members of the Government to submit a bill when it is drawn up, to put in place a law when the profession, offices and courts are realistic enough to prepare for it. Therefore, we will not support either the amending proposal or the basic proposal, because it is our position, and here I will ignore any substantive arguments and criticism that this legislation is legislation which, in itself, cannot be supported by opposition groups, but also by pro-government factions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-16-310	I will ask the author if he wishes to speak, Mr Pál Völner. [[Dr. Pál Völner indicates his intention to comment.]] You have the floor.
u2015-11-16-311	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The House discussed the Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. a bill amending the law, whose primary purpose is to facilitate communication with the court as widely as possible and by electronic means in as many cases as possible. At the committee meeting itself, my fellow Member, Barándy, acknowledged that this is an important goal that needs to be achieved. A little contradictory is the argument in which, at the same time, we are reminded that it is not sufficiently prepared when it has been practically a requirement for years. The fact that a correction has been made even before the committee means that even by the National Court Office, we have accepted comments that provide even easier introductions with such a short deadline. So these very amendments indicate that his reflection on practical life has taken place, not a slick text of law. The bill provides for an opportunity to be heard and interrogated by parties and court persons - witnesses and experts - in addition to the precise setting of the rules of competence that are problematic for practice. This will significantly facilitate the hearing of persons whose appearance would entail significant difficulties or disproportionate additional costs. At the same time, it also remedys an unconstitutionality and, by amending the Law on notaries, lays down the rules for the appointment of a notary acting instead of a notary who is prevented by the procedure. However, in the course of the debate, it turned out that, despite the concerns, my fellow Members agreed with the objectives pursued by the bill, only the amending proposal in the Committee on Justice, which was essentially minor amendments and clarifications. Dear Parliament, I thank the representatives of the parties and the designated parliamentary committees for their participation in the debate and ask you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-312	Ladies and gentlemen, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. No one came forward in writing, but Congressman Nándor Gúr applied, so you have the floor.
u2015-11-16-313	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bárándy was already talking about it, so I will not talk about the extent to which these draft laws are unprepared. I will say only the sentence that he did not tell me, so that Parliament was involved in a failure-based violation of the law, and it was necessary to correct it by the end of this year on the basis of the call of the Constitutional Court. So the point of the matter is obviously that what you are doing in terms of lawmaking can only be classified as hasty in nature. In terms of substance, what was in question at the time of the general hearing and at the present time is, in fact, that the increase in administrative burdens cannot, unfortunately, be carried out, either by delaying further corrections, delaying deadlines and reducing the preparation time to virtually zero, since I do not know what it is now, but we are about 20 November. So you can see where we will reach by 1 January or what time periods businesses and the population have in terms of preparation. There is one thing in which, in the last two weeks, we have not been able to convince many of us on the part of the pro-government side, although our fellow Member Répássy has attempted to do so, he said that speeding up judicial activity is necessary, here on the issue of the right to a fair trial, with regard to its protection. I am thinking here when the court does not decide, or when it does not justify negative decisions. We can line up countless cases in this regard, and both are practically required, since otherwise it is illegal. I do not want to go into concrete examples, but I just want to say that I believe that it is not normal to have, as an example, three, four, five, six years in the case of simple labour lawsuits in order to reach somewhere and not even take decisions. I think that my fellow Member Répássy is right when he says that there is a need for speeding up in court proceedings, but that this must not be done at the level of words, but at the level of actions. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-16-314	I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] There's no candidate. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No, thank you.]] No. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Following the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/6978. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-16-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6978 on 12 November 2015. XLVI of 2008 on the food chain and its official supervision. a bill amending the law and, in this context, the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the one-point technical and text-modifying proposal of the text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, adopted by our committee by 26 votes in favour, 4 against and without abstentions. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the food chain monitoring fee, following its amendment, continues to provide the budgetary revenue needed for the implementation of the food chain security strategy adopted by the government and for the food chain monitoring activities, but without the EU's concerns about State aid. The supervisory fee will continue to be the revenue of the system of official organisations responsible for food chain monitoring, which will operate in the field as part of the single government office. The fixed fee system for the revenues of the activity covered by the law is terminated, including the lowest zero-percent rate of the supervisory fee up to HUF 500 million net turnover. From now on, there will be a general obligation to pay a supervisory fee of 0.1 per cent, covering all actors in the food chain who are engaged in the activities covered by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the summary opinion of the Legislative Committee, I would ask you to accept the bill with your vote tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-16-316	I will ask Mr. Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[Robert Zsigó: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes. [[22.20]]
u2015-11-16-317	Thank you very much. As we have said several times in the debate and we have repeatedly said in the previous debate, in the debate on the original proposal, we have also indicated to you that this is a violation of EU law, that you have fixed the supervisory fee in a lane. You're going to cancel the lowest prize, zero percent. Since there must be a supervisory fee, it is, of course, acceptable, but if you had heard it from the very beginning, you would have listened to the opposition's voice that otherwise it will not pass, then we probably shouldn't be sitting here again today. We will not have to fight a freedom fight with the Union, but we will have to negotiate otherwise. This has been proven many times in recent years. We will therefore, of course, support the proposals, but we ask that you hear them with more humility when the opposition says that it is not certain that this will be good, and then perhaps we should not always bring back laws eight times, as we will see in the next waste management law. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-318	I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-16-319	Thank you, Mr. President. Two short sentences. As we can see, the lane system is no longer in place, so we can say that it is being maintained or that the 0.1 percent rate is being extended from the other side. The only additional sentence is that I can repeat again the logic and thinking that many people have already said today. Given that, in a fair process of producing draft laws, we would be able to create a situation where we would avoid violating European Union law in the process of government, and then it would really be that we should not bore each other in Parliament with a few sentence additions, but that we could adopt laws that should not be brought back to the House for a third and a fourth time. So I would very much like to advise the lawmakers, the lawmakers, the background workers, as well as those who accept them, with greater attention and, as the congresswoman said, perhaps a little, taking into account the well-intentioned proposals of the opposition, to avoid these mistakes that they are making. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-320	I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. Mr. Secretary of State indicates that you would like to comment. You have the floor.
u2015-11-16-321	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would just like to make three brief comments on what has been said in the debate, which I have already made in the general debate. One: not a new system will enter into force now, but the regulation of the food chain inspection fee in force until 31 December 2014. It should also be added that in the general debate it was also said that the Government did not accept the Commission's decision and brought an action before the European Court of Justice to destroy it. I would like to say to everyone that the food chain monitoring fee is not a tax, but everyone's contribution to ensuring that we are able to carry out controls and improvements in order to ensure that all families have a healthy, safe, high-quality food on their tables. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill-modifying proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-322	Dear Parliament, Decision will be taken on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. Act CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of certain public services and related legislative amendments. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Government submission T/6984. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] You do not wish... - or sorry, Secretary of State, Zsolt Németh does not wish to comment. Now we're going to hear from the representatives. I will also give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-11-16-323	Thank you very much. Yes, this says a lot about the fact that we are talking again about waste management, and we are redefining the 2012 Waste Act, which we are doing not only today this week, but the Fidesz-KDNP government has already submitted a new amendment to No 7397, which, in our opinion, amends a law that has nothing to improve. Although this was said in the Commission debate by Deputy State Secretary, when we tried to improve the Waste Management Act and waste management systems with our proposal for a resolution, and we tried to draw the government's attention to the immediate problems in the waste management system. But unfortunately, we have found closed ears, because we have been listening to the fact that there are no problems, so there is no need to debate our proposal for a resolution in Parliament. Yet, since then, we have been experiencing the third amendment of this law. What we see in this law and what we have already discussed and listened to at the committee meeting is that the public service tariffs for the 60- and 80-litre container are now being set, and how good it is that from now on, garbage can be collected for the public in a double-size trash bin. So far, two-size bins have had to be given to service providers to the general public. Now that it's been mandatory, at least now your fee will be set. It took a long time for that to happen. But basically, the good thing is that in this amendment they are even trying to solve the shortcomings of the chimney sweeping public service, as we have repeatedly said, which is not working, which they have destroyed, is left to disaster management to designate the public service provider. I would like to say and stress several times that, of course, it is possible to say that the MSZP is on the side of the service providers, but we are not on the side of the service providers, but we want to establish a sustainable system at last. A system in which the service provider is able to provide its services perfectly, its means, which it has, can maintain, if it fails, can repair it, if it needs to be replaced, has the money to replace it so that it can pay its people, otherwise it can pay all the other contributions that belong to this service, and we will create a system in which the public can pay for it, the municipality will also see a system that can be maintained, and not that we will actually amend the waste law weekly. I don't think that's good for you. The disappointing thing is that now István Horváth, a pre-registered Fidesz Member, has not come to defend the honour of the mundé either, because I think that when we amend a law twice a week, their own fellow Members have nothing to say about the matter. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State finally saying something that is forward-looking, which will create a sustainable system; he will no longer try to plug holes and no longer try to maintain an unacceptable, unsustainable system. Our problem is that in the end, we will get to the point where you will show everyone that everyone is bad outside of you, so we will have to be sure that the state will have to carry out this task in a large public service. One thing is noticed: these services are better placed than municipalities, they are closer to the population, because at least they work well. As I have said many times, mayors will maintain this system for as long as they can, especially for municipal-owned non-profit companies, because it is important for them that this system works. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-324	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to point out that I accidentally changed the order. I don't know, did you say the Commission's minority opinion in this speech, and then you don't want a separate word? [[It's a herring Anita nod.]] Yeah, okay. Thank you.
u2015-11-16-325	As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-16-326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We also touched on it in the general debate, and now I have to come back to two things, just because at the time I felt that we had not received a satisfactory response. [[22.30]] I do not want to judge the level of shortage of waste management in a given year, but I would like to clarify the question, Mr Secretary, whether it is true that what has also been said between Parliament's walls is a loss of some HUF 40 billion per year. I'm talking about extracting the material or not winning it. The non-retrieving of the material is the case with regard to dumping, and there is no doubt that a different path can be pursued in terms of recovery. There are several things that support me that it is true, and if so, then there is obviously something to be done to ensure that this is not of this magnitude, because the order of HUF 40 billion is still a decisive item in the Hungarian budget. For 2004 it is quite moderate, with 10 percent of this rate or slightly more of the outstanding amounts declared irrecoverable. As far as we know, this is a HUF 4.5 billion scale. And what is even more serious is that about 5 percent of the product fee, which is about HUF 70 billion, is what appears to be returned to waste management services. The most catastrophic is that, where appropriate, the designation of disaster management is necessary in order to ensure that local government mandatory tasks are carried out. In the summer of 2005, 18 operators in more than a hundred settlements did their work in this way, based on a disaster management designation. Hundreds of thousands of people have been affected. Not to repeat the things that Congresswoman Anita Heringes said, I would just like to say that it is incomprehensible for us to say that, just as we mentioned at the hearing of the Public Procurement Act, at the hearing of the Waste and Waste Management Act, we must say that we will not even finish the trial of the Waste Act, while it is on the list of next week's or this week's negotiations again, if I remember correctly, T/7397. under the number below. Secretary of State, where's the planning in these things? Do not tell me that the new draft law will be negotiated through the opening of new surfaces, because if you think conceptually about waste management, you will obviously not have to deal with these issues on a weekly, biweekly or monthly basis, but it would be worth discussing this issue in a complex manner to cover all the details that are important. Forgive me, but I have to say in advance that the kind of response that concerns another section of the story is not very acceptable, because in its complexity it would be appropriate to review this question. Based on the events of recent years, local authorities are facing problems and weights, and the service providers themselves are struggling, for which I think it would be worth looking at this story through a little different glasses. And if the aim that has already been mentioned above is to bring a centralised service system to life, once the waste management sector has been made available to the point that it is absolutely impossible, then I must express to the designers of the law and to those who set up logic that this is not really acceptable, because it is not in the interests of the people in the moonyard, but in the interests of the people that must be kept in mind. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-327	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed and I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2015-11-16-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to say in advance that, in the context of the amendment of the Waste Act, the aim is indeed only to provide a legal basis for determining the fee for 60 litres and 80 litres of collecting vessels that have been collected separately. However, this is good for the residents, so let us note that this is good news for the users. Good news, since they can reduce their fee for those who carry out selective collection with honor and honor. It is true that there are difficulties with public services because we are living in a transitional period, but this transitional period will soon end. This is what the bill you have mentioned, which has already been tabled, which I do not wish to discuss at this time. However, in this transitional period, we will also strive to ensure a proper public service, either through the use of the disaster protection you have mentioned or through grants. The possibility is still open in the order of 3.3 billion in the order of tender. With regard to the 70 billion that Congressman Nándor Gúr has mentioned - which is a little less than sixty or a few billions that come out of the product prize - my answer is that this is all for environmental and nature protection. All of it! After all, it is around 11-12 billion that will be submitted directly to waste management companies for waste recovery, and we will operate the environmental and nature protection institution system in the order of about 5 billion. However, over the last seven years, there will be a development of 2800 billion over the current EU programming period, compared to around 2300 billion in EU and domestic developments, i.e. half a billion more, and product fee revenue also serves the co-financing of this in Hungary. So it's not like the government is using product fees for anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-16-329	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. In line with the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. The Commission's announcements to be submitted for the amendment of the Act and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. By the representative Balázs Győrffy T/6981. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Jakab wishes to speak during today's debate. In the event of a statement by the Vice-President's representatives, he shall not be able to hold the meeting until the Parliament has agreed to do so in the course of the decision tomorrow. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Mr Vice-President should be able to lead the meeting in the decision on the proposal tomorrow. Please vote by raising your hands, who will contribute. [[Vote.]] I declare that the majority of this House has accepted the motion. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-16-330	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, At this late hour, allow me to present the majority position of the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution 46. According to Section 5 of the Act on the Transport of Agricultural and Forestry Lands of 2013 CXXII. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/6981. He presented the draft amendment, discussed the draft amendment and adopted it by 21 votes in favour and 5 votes against during the debate. [[22.40]] Dear Parliament, It is a very important amendment to the law, but it is a very short amendment to the law. This applies in practice to the modification of lease contracts, which refers to the setting of rents' fees. The need to amend lease agreements is linked to the practical application of the Roman law principle clausula rebus sic stantibus, i.e. the substantial change in circumstances in relation to the passing of time should be a basis for changing parts of the contractual relationship. At the same time, the intention of the person who entered into the contract for the lease was to be recognised in the contract in the pre-contractual process, while the new lease tax that entered into the contract was not, as a result of the change of ownership, possible. In view of this, the amending proposal opens the possibility of a new rent tax so that the limitation can initiate an increase in the rental fee to the amount of the market fee within a 90-day period. However, it is not necessary for the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development to contribute to this conclusion, which, of course, allows for a faster procedure. This amendment is very necessary because we all know and allow so many more detailed justifications for the professional comment made under very strict rules that there are areas where rent is 300-500 forints per golden crown, another area of the same quality 3-5 thousand forints per golden crown. So the system can't handle five, ten times the difference. This is why the Committee has taken the liberty of proposing that the establishment of a single fee here should be possible at national level for leases. In advance, the rapporteur proposed that the Chamber set this out, and the Committee decided that this was not possible. Dear Parliament, Since the committee has proposed the necessary amendment and has accepted it with the abovementioned voting rate, I recommend to the honourable Parliament that you support the amendment proposed by the committee and that the bill itself be adopted by the committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-331	The minority opinion expressed in the committee is given by Mr Gábor Staudt. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-16-332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There has been a long debate in the committee, especially with regard to the Győrffy amendment proposal, since we have to say that it is possible to agree with what was said there; it is clear that the major estates that the MSZP, Fidesz governments, or perhaps most of them under the MSZP governments, have been granted a wage of 30-40-50 years, if any, 99 years, are subject to very minimal rent, and in these cases something can be done in the future. The proposal creates an opportunity for this. The problem is that the state has not yet been able to do anything about these areas, and in the future a customer who will obviously become a private individual can then raise these rents if necessary. On the one hand, it can be said that the situation is settled, but in addition to what we did not support the sale itself, so the privatisation of the agricultural land, but if this is already started, and you say that you want to give these lands to the farmers, then they should actually go to the farmers. The main aspect against the amending proposal was that the timing was inadequate. It is not appropriate, since if this had been presented a few months later and, if necessary, in a slightly different robe, it could have been said that it could have been useful. Thus, on the basis of personal feedback and experience, it can be seen that rural, money-based, non-farming circles, who, say, have a golden pedigree, have recently acquired these, can fly into these areas. After all, if they calculate that it's more worth buying than if they put the money into a bank, because they get a loan with low interest rates, then they invest an amount. I will also say this in the ordinary speech, which has not been said before the committee, what this means in summary. But the point is, if they calculate the amount of rent they can get out of this construction by raising the market level, instead of putting their money in the bank, they can easily turn to buying land. And indeed, they will not be farmers, or in many cases they will not be farmers, because farmers cannot go as far in the auctions as those with liquid amounts. Most of the farmers don't, because if they did, they invested it, invested it in machinery, invested it in their economy. So some of these proposals developed a heated debate in the committee or opposition amendment proposal, an amendment from the Jobbik faction to the adoption by the committee of the plant size regulation previously proposed by József Ángyán, which would have provided a guarantee that then the amendments tabled by Fidesz could have been better achieved. Unfortunately, these were not accepted, despite the proposals made by the former Secretary of State, the Fidesz Secretary of State. In the case of the adoption of these, we could have supported the proposal for our part; but thus, in this form, that this was not proposed or adopted, it was not. I also have to tell you that, although it seems technical, the proposal that Jobbik also wanted to put forward could not have come before the committee, which would have allowed Hungarian citizens only to buy land or introduced new guarantees. This could not have come before the committee, because President Gergely Gulyás thought that this was beyond the order of business of the committee, because he arrived late, and not only contains technical amendments for which it would be permissible to arrive at night or in the morning. In other legislative proposals, this did not concern the committee or the President that there were other substantive amendments, such as tax laws, which had arrived. Therefore, these amendments could not be decided by the committee. But in the debate, the minority opinion I gave was formulated in this way, so we could not support the proposal. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-333	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now or later. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Yeah, at the end, all right. I'm going to ask if Secretary of State, Mr Bitay, would like to comment on the government's part. (To be indicated:) He doesn't want to. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-11-16-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! As we said in the Commission's debate and in the TAB's meeting, we will abstain from this proposal, since it is clear that it is dealing with a real problem. The fact that the socialists and you both rented the state land for ridiculous sums of money has practically expanded the private wealth of your own friends. There was even an example that even inflation monitoring was not included in these rental contracts. Where it was shown, it was not enough, since only this type of contract model was able to raise the funds for this amount of HUF 500-600. [[22.50]] So it is clear that the Hungarian state has been damaged by billions of forints, so Jobbik's firm demand is to set up a committee of inquiry for this, and finally to have personal responsibility for how the state could have handled its assets in such a sloppy manner. Why this happened in this way, of course, we know. Your minister admitted at the meeting of the control subcommittee of the Agriculture Committee that when they were socialist governments, socialist management, when they were Fidesz governments, was the Fidesz management that took this country apart. We good-looking guys aren't surprised at this, we're in Jobbik because we know that's what's happened in the last 25 years. If this has already been admitted and, by the way, this amendment of the law is a tangible achievement of this admission, since, by submitting it, it has been admitted that, indeed, in the last 25 years, state wealth has been treated in a very sloppy, treasonous manner, I cannot assess this amendment differently. As I started, of course, I know how you're handling a real problem, so we're going to stay on the whole. What really blows this proposal is timing. Interestingly, no one has ever cared how much rent, how much your friends are paying, but now that the gang war has started against a former oligarch, and now they want to bring this public fortune to others, it's now important to know how much that rent is. So in this way, as I said, the Jobbik will abstain. I trust, by the way, that we will be presented with the credibility of this amendment by accepting the feet of this amendment, which Jobbik has also tabled. It is my firm position that this can only be understood, and if a fair regulation law were finally adopted, then we would also believe that this amendment serves only fair intentions, not just the gang war. In fact, as I said, the committee of inquiry would be extremely important to finally be clear, not just by us, but, above all, by your voters, about how you dealt with that particular national wealth despite the great words. It can also be an important addition to this amendment, as my fellow Member Gábor Staudt mentioned, the previous amendments to your former State Secretary, József Ángyán, to the Land Traffic Act, which would put a stop to the large plant. This would not be an example of the fact that Jobbik does not support this proposal from a kind of major plant pro-active nature. We'll have to decline this way as well. Of course, Jobbik adheres to its previous programme to bring home the family farmers who live in the area, to provide them with a decent livelihood, even through state lands. Of course, not by selling to them or to anyone, but by selling to the state with the few remaining national assets, with this 380 thousand hectares, so that it can provide many Hungarian families with a livelihood and provide them with this land permanently, whether through demographic or social programs, not by squandering the wealth of all ten million Hungarian citizens by the government, thereby demoting any subsequent governments, otherwise, from the possibility of having a substantial say about what will happen in the Hungarian countryside. So these are the reasons we have considered. All about how you handle real problems and all the negative feelings I've told you. Because you did not support any of our amendments, nor the setting-up of the committee of inquiry, which could have cleared you and your conscience a little bit, we remained in this form at the residence. Of course, I will give the government every opportunity to convince us that their intentions are fair by the final vote of two-thirds tomorrow. I've listed some options in the case through which you can do so. If any of these are accepted, we can believe you that the amendment that we have now come before us is just by chance before this House, and not, say, 5-10 or 15 years ago. That would have been then, I think, truly authentic. Tomorrow, of course, we will find out who are those Members of the Parliament outside the Fidesz-KDNP, who might even support this bill by staying away. I didn't see DK today. I hope you'll change your mind by tomorrow, and we don't have to call out a kind of Gyurcsány-Orbán coalition. [[Defiance.]] But that's gonna come out tomorrow in the two-thirds vote. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-16-335	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2015-11-16-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party has already clarified that it will not support this bill in the general debate and in the speaker's speech. We have made the comments that make us unable to support them. Of course, we are pleased to see, at least if I perceive or understand correctly, that the original idea presented by my colleague Győrffy has already been removed from the bill in the TAB's summary amendment proposal, according to which the agricultural chamber expert would have set the lease fee. We also said - and I don't want to open Pandora's box at this very late hour - that we consider this to be particularly harmful because we believe that the Chamber of Agriculture was occupied entirely by Fidesz, because Magos, as the association of Fidesz, has practically taken over the management of the Chamber of Agriculture. For this reason, it would not have been reassuring if, even in purely market-based land lease contracts, the expert of the Chamber of Agriculture could have been involved in determining how much the rent should be in relation to the land in question. But we felt then that the TAB's summary amendment at least addressed one of our serious concerns. We fully agree, by the way, with what Vice-President James said, that there are a lot of land with a rather low rental fee, perhaps even impertinently low, if this indicator can be used, and we also find the timing strange. If I can still give you one more criticism, as a lawyer, I say that the retroactive effect, that is to say that it could be applied to contracts that have already been concluded, raises concerns. As I said, the Hungarian Socialist Party will certainly not vote for this bill. If and if, on the other hand, the sale of state land would be suspended, for which almost all opposition parties stood unitedly, then I think we can talk about how we can also adopt a good law with a kind of consensus from this bill. But if you do not suspend the sale of state land, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this bill, that is for sure. Unfortunately, I suspect that you will not suspend the sale of state land, you will not stop this idea, and I therefore suggest that we will not be able to support this bill in this way. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-337	I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-11-16-338	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I don't think many people are following the events, but for the record and for the people present, I'm going to tell you that I've been asking about things in the countryside, and I'd like to give you a few simple examples. Our accusation for investment was that the land would be treated as capital, and the result would be. Someone has 20 million forints, the gold-gold farmer has acquired training, but he hasn't done agriculture, he buys 100 million forints, let's say, 100 acres of land. Let's stick to this scale; let's say he buys that much. He invests 20 million, he has to invest 20 percent, it's going to be about 7 million forints a year, plus or minus, let's expect about that. About 5 million forints of this is paid for on the loan, 2 million left in pockets by putting in 20. That's 10% interest a year. That's a lot higher. Believe me, I didn't make this up as a lawyer. That's pretty much the kind of calculation that doesn't get out of hand. But I'll tell you something else. For example, if an area of 297 hectares is announced at the former State Economy in Gardony, does the Secretary of State think that this will go to farmers with local crust hands? So it was probably three acres of land for anyone who wanted to buy it, because it was 300 acres. It would have been better to do it, say, six times 50 or any other division, or three in 100, even better. It's not an isolated case, by the way. If we were to see statistics on this and it were to be completed in detail, it might be surprising, although perhaps the Secretary of State knows better or should know how many of these large areas of land there are. [[23.00]] But I only asked them, every farmer in his neighborhood could say areas that were written in too large a block. Obviously, we'll see who this is going to end up with in sales. This all confirms that the investor presence will certainly be present at the bidding. For example, the argument that was made in committee that those who bid can receive the loan even if, say, they have a pre-emptive right to buy, they miss the bid, but they exercise the right to pre-purchase, they will only have a limit on how many places they can bid, since they have to put down 10 percent of the amount in which they bid. So it is not realistic that someone, where they have a pre-emptive right, or where they have a pre-emptive right, goes to bidding anywhere, unless they miss it, exercise their pre-emptive right and receive the same favourable credit facility, because the problem that arose in the committee was that a person, let's say, of the local farmers, had the right to pre-empt, if he didn't bid, didn't get the credit facility. Now he can't bid in so many places, so this was also a restriction that will highlight the fact that local farmers are not necessarily going to benefit from the bids. This is also a problem, and believe me, Mr. Secretary, the layer of people you have often favored and your supporters may be the ones who are the ones who are the victims of this system, so the chair may be kicked out very easily. Of course, this doesn't hurt us too much, but it does make your actions so illogical that it might lead us further if we thought about it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-339	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed and I give the floor to Balázs Győrffy, the rapporteur.
u2015-11-16-340	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I wouldn't want to put the debate on long at this late hour either. I don't think we should go back to the dialogues we've already run here. We have before us an amendment that has been adopted by the Legislative Committee, which has some important elements. In fact, almost all of them have been incorporated in this form because I have tried to have a constructive and professional debate with my fellow opposition Members, which has also been shown openness by all the factions that I would like to thank because I do not always succeed. At the same time, I had to say that, although the professional debate was held, the decision will be made on a political basis. But let me tell you what the changes we were able to deal with with the amendment of the Legislative Committee were. Basically, there was a problem where this was not a general general rule, but an obligation to buy or change ownership so that it could not be used without a neck. Here, too, at the request of my opposition colleague, it was also incorporated so that it could not be used in a legal transaction between relatives, because if X.Y. sells it to his own wife, it is also a change of ownership. I think, by the way, that improvements have been made to the proposals for amendments. I, by the way, continue to feel that professionally, and I have this debate with Mr Legény, and with my fellow Member Sallai, whether the Chamber can play a role in this construction. We took it out of it because I think it doesn't give the cardinal part, but the original goal was that the courts should be a little burden-free and the final word should be said by them, but if the Chamber states the appropriate rent numbers within the legal framework, then maybe after a while it doesn't have to go to court with these numbers. But that's not gonna happen, 'cause I didn't want to tie the dog to the stake. There is yet another major change in the legislation, which makes a point of the Land Traffic Act 7. § (1) would give an answer. Almost all of my opposition colleagues have said that the proposal is not a bad one, that it wants to address an existing problem, but if it is good professionally, then it is obviously difficult to deal with a decision for political reasons. My fellow Member, Mr Staudt, tells me what the goal is. Mr. Congressman, the aim is that those who are or will be farmers of agricultural land, whether this is the Hungarian state, whether it is a natural person, once you are collecting rents from farmers on the market, perhaps it is only fair that you can also collect market rents for them. The Member argued, by the way, that if this amendment passes, the capitalists will fly into this area. Honourable Congressman, If this amendment does not go through, the capitalists will fly it, because only those with a serious capital background can afford to invest in such an investment. By the way, if it works on a market basis, and you can get a market rent for it, and you said a number, which may not stand up all over the country, but I can imagine that there is an area for which this mathematics is true, but farmers, the local resident, as you said, will be able to take advantage of this opportunity, because they will also have the opportunity to buy this land, because they know that it is not necessarily the capitalists who can manage it, their economy can bear this investment. Let us not forget that self-esteem must be included, but we can expect those who want to buy land to have some capital power. By the way, farmers did not ask for land distribution, but they wanted to be able to buy agricultural land, so that in the long term - once again, in the long term - they could guarantee the operation of their own and family economies. My fellow Hungarian Member said that the rent was ridiculous. This is it now, and I don't want to go back too much in time to analyze what happened, but there are contracts that were nothing more unrealistic than the 1250 HUF/golden crown at the moment of their conclusion, but the rents have shown an exponential rise in the last 10-15 years, and as you mentioned, inflation has not followed. I think we have reached the time when these inadequately regulated parts should be put back on the table. I trust we can find a solution. The question is why now. Mr Congressman, if you do not vote for it, you are still not among the supporters of this political and professional goal. However, let me have a faint hope that the profession will override politics and that in some way the legislation will receive support. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-341	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the proposal to amend certain laws relating to game protection, game management and hunting, and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6955. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-16-342	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 13 November is the House Rule 43. T/6955. The Commission presented a bill amending certain laws relating to the protection of game, game management and hunting and presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 2 negative votes against and 4 abstentions. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee includes, in particular, the amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture. The Legislative Committee's own motion mainly contains codification and text-focusing proposals, in one place the committee's motion, and at the other points it clarifies the original bill. As regards the bill, I would like to note that the amendment was preceded by extensive social consultation, given that during 2014 the National Hungarian Hunting Association, the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber and the National Chamber of Agriculture also initiated the amendment of the Wildlife Management Act adopted twenty years ago. [[23.10]] The last two wild game management plan cycles have demonstrated that predictability and economic stability are eligible for hunting on at least 3,000 hectares and that the 20-year operational planning cycle is much longer than the current one. I would like to highlight, among the amendments, the one that sets out the rules for the establishment of the Wildlife Damage Fund and sets out the provisions for its operation. According to the amendment, the hunter is entitled to establish and manage a wildlife damage fund in a separate account intended to ensure that the financial conditions for the game compensation are continuously available. The amount included in the Wildlife Damage Account shall be used exclusively for the payment of the wild game damage resulting from an agreement on game compensation or a final judgment of the Court of Justice. It is proposed that compliance with the rules on the training of the game damage fund be monitored by the hunting authority. If the hunter is entitled to break these rules, the hunting authority shall, as a last resort, remove the hunter from the register. I am convinced that, overall, the adoption of the bill will create a predictable legislative environment and clear relations for the domestic hunting community, which is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you for listening. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-343	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-11-16-344	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I just want to say one thought, and that's thanks. Thank you very much for the amendments tabled by the opposition to the law and for everyone who has tabled an amendment and for the constructive work that we have been able to do on this issue. I am very pleased that we have managed to keep this debate professional, and I hope that many will also support it in the final vote. I think that we will certainly adopt a good law for Hungarian wildlife management and the protection of wild game, which is XXI. It is based on 100th century nature conservation funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-345	I now give the floor to Balázs Győrffy, rapporteur of the designated Agriculture Committee.
u2015-11-16-346	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have come to the goal of a legislative amendment which I hope will obtain consensus or support around it, and will be able to cope with the vote. Perhaps we can be so optimistic because a very well-founded, long professional debate preceded the concept of the law, its codification and then its debate, because both the hunting society and the farming side have made a lot of proposals, and most of them have made a lot of comments on the subject, and most of them, which have created a coherent opportunity for it, have been incorporated into this amendment. A great deal of progress has been made, both professionally and huntingly, and from the farmers' side. I would like to highlight some of the elements of the last amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, since I do not wish to have a previous debate, although it really should not be called a debate, because there have been a lot of consensual contributions. One is the issue of wildlife damage, which we believe is a huge step forward. In the case of farmers, it was not typically our experience that the level of wildlife damage was zero, 5 or 10 percent - before 5 percent, and now it is either zero or 10 percent, depending on whether the launch plans were eligible for hunting - a much bigger problem was whether the game damage was paid at all, whether the hunter had the financial opportunity to transfer this game damage to the farmer's bank account. This game damage fund allows farmers to be quite sure that the same amount as the game damage generated in the last year is in a separate account with the rightholder for hunting. If the hunter is not able to justify this, he will have to assume the end of his hunting right, which is a serious motivating force, I think, for the hunting society and for a fair solution, because it is not fair in any case, if farmers have to prefinance the game damage costs of the hunting company, so we thought that this is a step forward that is entitled to honest-paying hunting, not a problem for hunting companies, because they are counting on this expenditure anyway, but farmers who have faced problems in recent years can take on a secure position with which their farming will be much more balanced. Significant progress has also been made on the landowner's side, since there are completely different proportions of how a hunting company, or the border, should look at it. Here I believe that there has been progress and progress in percentages that will help to exert a substantial influence on the exploitation of hunting grounds. I would also like to highlight one more point from the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, and these are the issues of conflict of interest. We have laid down rules of conflict of interest for the hunting company's hunter and the head hunter in the countryside, which we believe can properly stabilise the operation of the otherwise high-quality Hungarian game management from the professional side. There is still room for discussion, my fellow Members, on the training of dogs for hunting and other technical amendments, on front-loading weapons and whatnot, but these are so professional issues, and since there was consensus, I would not like to waste time here at the late hour, so I would like to ask my fellow Members, as a closing point, as a closing thought, to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-347	I now give the floor to Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development in this debate.
u2015-11-16-348	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Committee on Sustainable Development T/6955 on the amendment of certain laws relating to wildlife protection and wildlife management and hunting. The detailed discussion of the bill was successfully held at its meeting on 11 November, with 4 votes in favour and 2 abstentions closed the debate. The committee concluded that the bill complies with the house rules 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article provides legal and professional requirements. The proposal concerns the 1996 LV on the conservation of wild game, game management and hunting. a comprehensive update of the law. Keeping the main lines of the original law, along with new ones, it seeks to reform the domestic rules of wildlife management. Main elements: the introduction of wildlife management in rural areas, an increase in the operational planning cycle for 20 years, the introduction of a wildlife management plan in rural areas, emphasis will be placed on the planning coherence of hunting areas in a single area. There are fundamental changes in the way in which hunting grounds are designated and the rules governing the exploitation of hunting rights and the management of wildlife damage. It is an important element to redefine the requirements for the use of professional hunters and to require mandatory employment of 4 000 ha. It regulates the regulation of price range wildlife, simplifies the administration of trophies, supports traditional hunting methods, and therefore the bill is supported by this House. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-349	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-11-16-350	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I'll be very brief. We are pleased that this amendment has finally come before us, because it has been said here almost every six months since 2010 between the walls of the House, that it is indeed possible for the House to negotiate and come before us next semester. Jobbik has already said in the debate and in the committee meeting that we can support this proposal. We have tabled amendments to it, but their adoption or non-approval does not substantially affect the eligibility of the legislation. I also thank you for having preliminary discussions where, exceptionally, you have actually listened to the opposition's comments. [[23.20]] Otherwise, we would have preferred to see the forestry, management and conservation laws coming in a package in addition to this law, because the reason why there were contradictions in these laws that could have been dealt with correctly was to see this system together. However, as I have already said, we can support it. We have received different opinions from farmers, hunters, foresters, suggesting that this is a healthy compromise that has been made in this legislation and that Jobbik supports it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-351	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2015-11-16-352	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Hungarian Socialist Party will abstain from the final vote or final vote tomorrow. We will abstain because, professionally, we see it very well in the law or we find it good that the author wishes to introduce wildlife management in the countryside as an approach [[András Tállai: But...]] However, we think, and in this I have a debate with my fellow Member, Győrffy, that, let us say, an increase in the level of wildlife tolerance from 5 per cent to 10 per cent is an obligation for farmers to suffer wildly, as I said, double, so we think this is not a good part of this proposal. Of course, I have tabled an amendment to this proposal, which I hope will be able to support by the majority of governments, that is, by the majority of Parliament. We're just wondering if that's gonna happen or not. Thank you, that's it.
u2015-11-16-353	I now give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-11-16-354	Thank you very much. I would like to respond very quickly to my fellow Crewman. Let me fix it, Congressman. 5 per cent was not increased to 10 per cent, but to 10 per cent if certain conditions are met, or to a zero per cent if other conditions are met, which the farmer must tolerate. And that's what we've come up with, Congressman, from the point of view that it's the best game damage that doesn't happen. So it is mutual assistance and cooperation that leads to results, which must be achieved by both the farmer and the farmer. So if you shoot out the right amount of game that causes the damage, then the farmer will tolerate 10 percent of it, and if he doesn't do these numbers otherwise, zero percent. I would like to stress that we do not fundamentally believe that, not that the problem is a percentage of the tolerance for wildlife damage, but that it is the volume of wildlife damage. There are areas in the country where wild game is multiplied by what the territory can bear. So here we need to use a serious game management professional rigour in order to reduce the stock to a level that can be treated, which causes so much wildlife damage, which, by the way, will not be a problem for farmers. The question of fences could still be mentioned here, with which many want to reduce wildlife damage, but what we can see is that as the length of the fences rises, the wildlife damage is also rising, as it will not cause less harm, nor will there be less damage, nor will it even be concentrated, and cause a much greater problem for some producers, while others are obviously easier, but from a sectoral point of view this is a much bigger problem. So I think that this 10% and zero percent was completely acceptable to the profession instead of the previous stable 5 percent, not to mention that farmers are sufficiently compensated for some level of problems with other farmers, such as the wild game bank. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-355	I would ask my fellow Members to ask for a normal word, because it is not two minutes old in the debate on the Commission reports, so I have just misjudged that it was only two minutes old. Mr. Zsolt Legány was two minutes old, but I give him a normal word.
u2015-11-16-356	I will not argue with my fellow Member, Győrffy, given that there are five or six other legislative proposals before this House today, which will extend to tomorrow. [[András Tállai: That's good talk!]] I understand Mr Győrffy's comments or his argument. Overall, however, we think - although, as you have said, there will be a way or an opportunity where the wildlife damage will decrease to zero percent - that this will be more representative of a smaller percentage. We think that by increasing the level of wildlife damage from 5 percent to 10 percent, it will, in fact, be more of a double of the burden of wildlife tolerance, as I mentioned in my previous speech, which will be borne by farmers. That is why I tabled an amendment in this respect, which would leave the original threshold of 5 per cent, which has been in place. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-357	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I'll ask Márton Örst Bitay to comment as rapporteur.
u2015-11-16-358	No, thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-359	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The T/6989 submitted by Congressman Lajos Szűcs. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-16-360	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6989 on 13 November 2015. the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. a bill amending the law and, in this context, the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 34 votes in favour and a unanimous decision. The amended amendment adopted contains the three-point amendment proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and the two-point amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee reference 1. Given the progress of time, I do not wish to mention any further parts of the legislative amendment, Mr Lajos Szűcs will comment on what has been said in the debate. Please support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-361	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now.
u2015-11-16-362	No, thank you.
u2015-11-16-363	He doesn't want to comment at the moment. I'll ask if you'd like to comment from the government, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-364	No.
u2015-11-16-365	No. I give the floor to Sándor Farkas, rapporteur of the designated Agriculture Committee.
u2015-11-16-366	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 November, the Committee on Agriculture held a detailed debate on the proposal to amend the Law on fish management and the protection of fish. During the debate, we were convinced that the bill also met the conditions for integration into the constitutional, home and domestic legal environment. In the majority of the proposals submitted to the proposal and discussed by the Committee, it was apparent that in most of the groups there was largely consensus that the measures proposed were intended to improve the conditions and background of Hungarian fisheries management. Most of the amendments were intended to be complementary rather than to amend specific texts, and, on the basis of the lessons learned from the Commission's discussions, it appears that further work and other solutions will be needed in some opposition proposals; I am thinking of cormorance or ecological fishing. The amendment tabled by the Committee, which closed a detailed debate, complemented the proposal with more clarification. The organisation representing the national interest representatives of anglers and anglers' associations introduced a precise definition, created the possibility of establishing a sub-benefit-paying scheme and also provided for transitional provisions for the extension of lease contracts ending until 31 December 2015. Overall, the Commission's debate is that the joint objective of the factions is to strengthen fishing-based fisheries management in domestic waters, which can also form the basis for fishing tourism and the development of the service industry based on it. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal to be adopted tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-367	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, who presents the minority opinion formulated in the Committee on Agriculture.
u2015-11-16-368	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Jobbik fraction will otherwise be able to support this proposal. Minority opinions were formulated because I tabled a number of amendments, the intention and direction of which was agreed by the legislator himself, but said that they should not be dealt with in this law. [[23.30]] I also agree with these, in part, because what has been my criticism of this legislation is, above all, not what is in it, but what is lacking in it, and I would like to argue very briefly for it. I am aware, of course, that the problem of the privatisation of Lake Fertő is not that we are definitely treating it in this legislation, but I cannot say anything else in pain, because I have been able to do anything else, because since 2010 I have raised it in every forum in existence, and all the government bodies, every ministry and every government office involved in this, mayors and I do not list it, everyone has agreed that this was a terrible case, by the way, which was done during the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, that the complete reed of the Lake Fertő has otherwise been privatized, that a ridiculous lease agreement has been concluded on this subject with the right of eternal free humiliation and the rest. All the secretary of state that I contacted in oral writing were also right for us, for me, for the people around Lake Fertő, but nothing happened, so I made a reference here. I believe that the problems with the live busa are being handled rather sloppy, and that will cause serious problems at Lake Balaton. I regret that this legislation does not cover this. I have been promised that if we see that these fears are proved in practice, they will act in this regard. I'm glad to hear that. I have also tried to allow fishing organisations to benefit from the operational programme for fisheries management and to be eligible for these resources. I'm glad to hear there are some progress here, too. As regards domestic resources, I do not repeat, there are also concerns, as very few people have had access to this HUF 600 million. Here I have also received promises that this will also change in practice. We've already touched on the contradictions about cormorance, and I don't want to go over it again. I am aware that there are European Union constraints here, but it is often the coordination of practice that is really lacking. I also received encouraging signs and promises. We have also touched on the problems of organic fishing, demonstration fishing, and Jobbik believes that, under strict control and supervision, either the sale of fish caught here or the presentation of them at certain gastronomic festivals would certainly be a relief, and that we should not hate these activities or waste the fish caught here unnecessarily to put it that way. Thank you, Mr President, for what I wanted to say briefly, and, as I said, Jobbik is in favour of the legislation and we hope that the problems which have been identified by the amendment will indeed be addressed in the near future. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-369	I now give the floor to Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development in this debate.
u2015-11-16-370	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Committee for Sustainable Development is the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. T/6989. At its meeting on 11 November, the detailed debate was successfully held with 4 yes, 1 non-voting and 2 abstentions. The committee concluded that the bill complies with the house rules 44. Paragraph 1 provides legal and professional requirements. The amendment updates and complements the rules on the exploitation of the State's right to fish management. The amendments are necessary because most of the contracts for the lease of the State's fishing rights in registered fish management water areas will soon expire. Continuous and undisturbed fishing activities may take place in water areas if the legislative background allows the many recovery contracts which cease at the same time to be replaced smoothly with new contracts. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-16-371	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-11-16-372	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that there are no more speakers for this law. We are talking about fish farming, aren't we, as many of my fellow Members have already said, that we actually know that the reason why we needed individual representatives to solve this problem is because there wouldn't have been time to finish the law if we had gone through normal order of business, and then probably many areas would have become orphans, since the lease contracts had expired. This is somewhat irresponsible, however we consider it, on the part of Fidesz-KDNP, but now we have this bill, which could solve this problem. We have asked the members of the Fidesz-KDNP and, by the way, the petitioner to carry out this task honestly and honestly, which they impose on themselves. Basically, we are going to take this issue by saying that if it is not done honestly and honestly, 320,000 of your members will take the steps that need to be taken in this area. So I think that you need to start with what you've written here, honestly and honestly, and then this law can be supported by our faction. Thank you.
u2015-11-16-373	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-11-16-374	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly: the new direction that we have seen since 2010 is initially only in communication and later in law that we use our natural waters for fishing purposes, which Jobbik has always supported, and we have always been constructive in this legislation, as has the Fisheries and Fisheries Act, which was before the House last year, and we voted in favour, as I said, we will do. I would like to make two amendments here quickly. One of them was an encouragement to the government to develop the,, Eat, fish program, as well as to promote the consumption of domestic fish, especially for students, and I encourage the government to develop a program, because otherwise there are much greater opportunities in Hungarian fish and Hungarian fish production than our governments have used to. There is also a need for greater progress on the reduction of alien and invasive species. They cause huge problems, indeed ecological disasters in certain species of fish, so they are also a government task, or at least the creation of this system of devices. I would also encourage the government to initiate some kind of international negotiations in order to try to discuss the problem that has emerged in the Iron Gate, not now, decades earlier. This would require the involvement of at least two other neighbouring countries, as the sturgeons that are currently unable to swim up to the Szigetköz, or to the Upper Tisza, seriously weaken, otherwise reduce the Hungarian fish fauna, and at the very least form an integral part of the Hungarian fishing culture for centuries, and there was a lot of beautiful stories about the fact that the objection of a motherfish preparing for the sprawl covered the annual tax revenue of a settlement along the Danube or Tisza, if, say, the eggs were managed to be delivered to an ice bed on a Western European market. So it would be good to have such an international discussion on this subject at least. There are fish stairs that operate to this extent and on such a surface in the world, and they could be able to ensure that these precious fish find their living conditions back home, and this is just such a small signal to the government that we want them to think in this direction, because then this country will really be a fishing paradise, then we will be on the fishing map of the world, and this is good not only for fishermen and tourism, but also for all ten million Hungarian citizens. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-375	I will ask Mr Lajos Szűcs, as rapporteur, if he wishes to comment on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Congressman Nándor Gúr was still in touch. Then I'll give him the floor. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2015-11-16-376	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was beginning to realize that you had closed the debate, but it's okay, I would have accepted that too. [[Intercom from Jobbik: It's not that simple!]] And so, with the president giving me the floor, I'm going to say the one complex sentence that confirms what Anita Heringes said. [[23.40]] It is about how we can finally find a legislative proposal for which it is possible to act in a supportive manner. I often criticize government proposals, and now I would like to say the sentence that it is obviously when, if I remember correctly, no more than 30, I think 26 member associations, as far as more than 1000 associations are concerned, that the possibility of direct participation in fish farming is, so to speak, to some 320 thousand fishermen and anglers, and I would like to launch them only with the responsibility that everything that is in the proposal should be achieved so as not to disappoint people who are involved in this story. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-377	Thank you. If no one else wishes to comment, I will close the debate now and give the floor to notary Lajos Szűcs to react.
u2015-11-16-378	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think that, despite the late hour, there are many who have long awaited the birth of this law, and I thank everyone who has helped in the debate on the bill. Perhaps the most important sentence is that when the Law on fish management was passed, it already had the germ in the bill that we would stop fishing for natural waters, certainly not in order never to fish in natural waters - commercial fishing has been abolished. So all the fears that we have about the fact that there will be no replacement of fishermen in Hungary as a profession can be disbanded, for those people who have been engaged in this noble profession, we will be able to find out what to do next. Perhaps the most important thing is that the entire fishing community has been waiting for a long time to take control of its fate. Long ago, fishermen wanted to take their waters into their own hands. This is, of course, a terrible responsibility for them, because from now on they cannot point out to anyone that there is no fish in the waters because the fishermen catch it. From now on, a whole new era can begin, at least in the great natural waters. We want to earn this responsibility, and any questions that Anita Heringes or Nándor Gúr or Zoltán Magyar expressed to us, we would like to pay that responsibility. Of course, as everyone has said, this around 350,000 fishing society has a great opportunity in the hands of this bill. I think that in a few years, we will be able to show everyone what can be done from the natural waters of Hungary, and indeed this country can be a fishing haven that can show Europe and the world that the wonderful landscapes of Hungary can be well fished in natural waters. So I thank you for this opportunity, and I ask you to support the amendment that has been tabled tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-379	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the facial image analysis and facial image analysis system and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/6623. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-11-16-380	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/6623 on 5 November 2015. The draft legislation on facial image analysis and facial image analysis system, submitted under number 46, shall be adopted by the House Rule 46 of the House Act. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 votes in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment also includes the amendments proposed by the Judicial Committee and the legislative committee's own amendments. The proposal would regulate, at a legal level, the extension of the methods, procedures and records necessary for preventing and identifying criminals through the facial image analysis system and facial image analysis records. By supplementing current identification methods and procedures, it would be possible to make use of the potential of specific data enabling enhanced identification, which would enable a person's identity to be identified with great precision. Due to the new types of criminal offences and cross-border crime, it has become necessary to establish a legal basis for the rapid and reliable identification possibilities provided by modern technologies and for the use of security systems for law enforcement and administrative purposes. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, I ask that we support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-381	I will ask the author if he wishes to speak, Mr Secretary of State. [[No signal.]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr Péter Ágh.
u2015-11-16-382	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In view of the late hour, it is important, however, to highlight it very briefly, especially on the basis of the events of the last days, that, unfortunately, today there are many complex crimes in the world, which often cross the borders. The social interest in the administrative protection of document security, the prevention of crime and the identification of unknown offenders based on modern technology, as soon as possible, requires the development of current identification methods and procedures. In particular, it is important to make use of the potential of data based on specific characteristics that allow for increased certainty of identification, so that the identity of a person can be established with great precision. Unfortunately, the terrorist events in Paris also confirm that such improvements are needed in the field of effective crime prevention and law enforcement. The problems raised by the opposition at committee meetings, the violation of fundamental rights of data protection by the law, have been clarified, because the central data controller may be referred to by the court, the police, the prosecutor's office, the enforcement or investigation or the APB. The system allows quick identification of unknown perpetrators or accurate identification of the identity. Therefore, we can say that the bill contributes to strengthening the security of Hungary, and that is why we are asking for its support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-16-383	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2015-11-16-384	Very briefly, Mr. President. István Apáti was my fellow Member who was responsible for the proposal on behalf of Jobbik, and I promised him that I would convey his opinion in a few sentences. Our problem is that we are skeptical when it comes to storage suitable for profiling, whether it penetrates too much into the circle that people should leave in terms of their right to their own data. So we have fears that faith in effective law enforcement here goes beyond what would still be permissible in the case of the protection of civil rights. I would point out here that we are not talking about identifying immigrants or people suspected of terrorism, because we are talking about Hungarian citizens. It is another system - and we can obviously talk about various solutions - when we talk about detecting suspected terrorists. That is not what this is all about, and it is not even about making it mandatory in certain circles. Therefore, because of these concerns, we cannot support the proposal. [[23.50]] And we believe that, just as effective law enforcement will not be guaranteed at the stadiums when they enter, that they will not commit different crimes at the game, that the vein scanner must submit to everyone or take different fingerprints and list them, but that we would filter out the people who are committing them, and that we would prevent them from repeating the same thing in the future. Here, too, we want a similar attitude in the future. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-385	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-11-16-386	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As I said in the general debate, we will not support this bill. And here, in general, I can say, as in one of my previous speeches, that the introduction of certain new technical solutions may be necessary and justified, that it is necessary to go with age, and indeed, if you see the events of the past period, especially the present Paris massacre, then emotionally and - I can even say from a professional point of view - the emotions and arguments that make new law enforcement techniques necessary, or, of course, one can advocate it. You can advocate that if they are provided with appropriate procedural guarantees, if the scope of use is indeed defined as justified and otherwise harmonised with other constitutional rules. However, this bill has several flaws, bleeding from multiple wounds. The reason why I am making such general arguments in this detailed debate is because most of our amendments intend to introduce exactly guarantee rules. So, ladies and gentlemen, when it is easier to describe the scope of those who cannot obtain such biometric data, especially in relation to the facial recognition system, than to describe who can obtain it; if I do not see a control mechanism above it, let us say, in the case of secret information gathering, a judicial control or at least a bv-judge control, in which case one says that the law is not good and cannot be supported. When NAIH does not perform its task properly; when the prosecutor's office does not pay sufficient attention to the misuse of personal data; when, in practice, in relation to this bill, they would extend biometric identification to almost the entire population and to all foreigners in our country, I think - simply and not in a professional way - the proposal goes beyond the target. And, you know, fellow Members, if we had confidence in the government on the part of the opposition, we might be able to accept these proposals a little easier. But when we know how you deal with civilians, how you deal with people who participate in certain protests, and compare that with what opportunities this bill offers, namely that whole masses can be picked up at once and then identified individually for who is on them, then I am extremely distrustful. I am extremely distrustful, because we have experienced and probably will continue to experience a great deal of abuse. If you - since this will be handled naturally by a public body - are given the opportunity, technical opportunity, not legal, to identify, say, the people involved in the protests, then I think that democracy is in danger here, even if it now seems to be a big word or a word that is unnecessarily exaggerated. The fact that you have intimidated people by various means and are trying to prevent them from exercising their civil rights, whether I am thinking of participating in a protest here, because that is now the case, but whether it is to make a motion for a referendum impossible, it is, indeed, a reason for mistrust. And this law in this mistake, I think, is definitely suffering. By the way, the NAIH - and I would like to quote this right now because you do not support our amendments to the Legislative Committee - stated in principle that the use of the central biometric reference register for the whole population should be limited to the narrowest possible circle. Secretary of State, have you seen this circle that you want to limit it to? I'm sure it's everything, but it's not narrow. In such a wide circle, this cannot be allowed. In other words, if you make a proposal that protects citizens' rights with sufficient procedural guarantees and which then allows you and the bodies that actually do national security work to use these data, you do police work, that's fine. The reason why facial recognition is dangerous is because, in other ways of identification, it requires some kind of involvement in the procedure, so that this can happen, and in this case nothing. A citizen has no idea where, under what circumstances, in whose company his facial image was recorded and who, by whom, in what way he intends to use it. And the right to privacy, I think, is an old and perhaps human right. I understand and even agree - and that is why I started with this speech - that combating crime and combating terrorism require the introduction of new technical tools, but my fellow Members, as usual, you have gone too far. I'm asking you to reconsider. I asked for a separate vote on the amendments that we tabled, and the guarantee rules are strengthened, do so to support them, then the law will be at least a little less wrong. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-16-387	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Tibor Scone gets up.]] Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor.
u2015-11-16-388	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The general debate of the bill and the Commission's debate have at least demonstrated that there is at least consensus that the use of modern techniques and technologies in law enforcement is necessary and necessary. The law itself contains a solution that, in the facial analysis, a biometric identifier is created, which, in addition to the guarantees mentioned in the bill, is capable of storing the stored facial profiles with sufficient security; it is only entitled and legally used; and the point is that this facial profile can be used for national security, personal protection and installation protection purposes. The bill defines precisely, taxatically, which bodies are entitled to use the activity, and the bill refers to the management of the register and the provision of identification and identity control services in the sole function of a public body. The Government-supported amending proposal includes an addition to the list of sub-registrations covered by the data transfer in addition to the sub-registration for residence permits under the Law on the Entry and Residence of Third-country Nationals and the sub-registration for the residence permit. With these two registers, the visa application and the visa issued and the sub-registration of certificates for a replacement visa are linked to the system. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Parliament, Dear House, I think it is interesting to hear from a Member who is concerned about the security of the protesters when their government had unidentified policemen shoot at peaceful protesters. [[0.00]] I think this shows well that, without considering the actual content of the law, it has been judged on the basis of their political interest at the moment, so I ask the sober majority to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-16-389	Good evening. We'll get back to work. I would like to inform you, thanking the Secretary of State for the closing statement that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of legislation and, in this context, on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain additional laws and on the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/6625. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2015-11-16-390	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 5 November 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/6625. Number II of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements and, in this context, a bill amending certain additional laws, and to that effect, the Committee of the House Rule 46. It adopted an amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour, four abstentions, no votes against. The summarised amendment also includes the amendments proposed by the Defence and Police Committee and the amendments made by the Legislative Committee. In order to ensure uniform application of the law, it was necessary to amend the law on infringements, the infringement procedure and the system of registration of infringements and the related law on legal aid for infringements. The practical experience gained by law enforcement bodies since the entry into force of the new Code and the fulfilment of EU legal obligations justify the amendment. The bill contains a new legal institution for the suspension of the enforcement of the detention of offences in respect of minors, which further broadens the scope for the courts to exercise their rights in the case of minors. In addition, it is appropriate, in parallel with the legislation of the Criminal Code, to determine the scope of infringements committed by disrupting the operation of a public service operation. With a view to establishing transparent regulation, the proposal clarifies, organises provisions on public service work with a view to facilitating uniform case-law, including the limitation of the executability of public service work and the obligation to appear and reappear to the public employment body in order to fulfil the obligation to work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I urge you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-16-391	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Tibor Pócsácsás: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State says no. In that case, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the designated Defence and Police Committee. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-392	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 27 October 2015, the Defence and Police Committee held T/6625. II of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements a detailed discussion of the law and, in this context, of the bill amending certain additional laws. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee during the detailed discussion during the second stage of the decision house rule 45. § (1) discussed the amendments contained in the annex to the report, examining that they comply with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee presented a proposal for an amendment, including proposals for amendments by the supported representatives and the intention to amend them, to close the detailed debate. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 27 October 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Having discussed the amendments contained in the Annex to the report pursuant to Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure, it also examined their compliance with Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee presented a proposal for an amendment, including proposals for amendments by the supported representatives and the intention to amend them, to close the detailed debate. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 27 October 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. )
u2015-11-16-393	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, rapporteur for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here.
u2015-11-16-394	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender, seh geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag vom Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt, bezüglich des Gesetzesänderung des Gesetzes Nr. 2, Jahr 2012 über die Regelverstösse und die Verfahren zur Erfassung von Ordnungswidrigkeiten und Regelverstössen erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the 2012 II. T/6625, amending Act T/6625. About the bill No. 1. The language that he hears and uses from birth, which he thinks about and gives his opinion, is part and shaper of every person's personality. The first words of each person's life are spoken in their mother tongue. However, it is not only for these seemingly sentimental reasons that it is important to use the language, but also because some of the nationalities living in Hungary do not speak any other language, so it is often possible for them to have everyday contacts, whether in private or in administrative matters, only in a minority language, from the point of view of the Hungarian authorities. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. T/6625, amending Act T/6625. The two amendments to bill No 36 which directly affect the nationalities living in Hungary are the amendments of the Act No. 36 and 82/K. It concerns the provisions of §2 of the Treaty and is of a technical nature. Article 36 (a) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) § (1) states that the language of Because of the lack of knowledge of the Hungarian language, no one can be disadvantaged. In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, you can use both orally and in writing the mother tongue of everyone, based on an international treaty published by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, or, if you do not know the Hungarian language, the other language which you are known to use. Here it is very important and I would like to point out that, on the basis of an international treaty proclaimed by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, in which case the nationality language may be used by a nationality citizen even if the person concerned is otherwise familiar with the Hungarian language. So as a nationality, you have a free choice of language. The 82/K. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the State shall bear the costs incurred in connection with the fact that the person subject to the procedure or the injured person is hearing impaired, speech impaired, blind, does not know the Hungarian language, or used his or her regional or minority language during the proceedings. The current amendment of the law replaces the text of the regional or minority language of the circle with the text of the ethnic language of the circle, or the text of the minority or regional language of the time. With these amendments, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities rather than previous regional or minority definitions. Using the concept of a new language of nationality according to law for the sake of uniform use of terms, which we fully agree with on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The importance of the language of nationality, the use of the mother tongue, is also shown by the fact that the Council of Europe established a European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages in Strasbourg on 5 November 1992, which recognises that, in addition to the official language of the State in question, the use of the mother tongue of nationalities in that country should not only be tolerated but should be facilitated and encouraged, both in private life and public life, orally and in writing. [[0.10]] Paragraph 1 states that the language of the infringement procedure is Hungarian. Because of the lack of knowledge of the Hungarian language, no one can be disadvantaged. In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, you can use both orally and in writing the mother tongue of everyone, based on an international treaty published by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, or, if you do not know the Hungarian language, the other language which you are known to use. Here it is very important and I would like to point out that, on the basis of an international treaty proclaimed by law, in the circle defined therein, the regional or minority language, in which case the nationality language may be used by a nationality citizen even if the person concerned is otherwise familiar with the Hungarian language. So as a nationality, you have a free choice of language. The 82/K. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the State shall bear the costs incurred in connection with the fact that the person subject to the procedure or the injured person is hearing impaired, speech impaired, blind, does not know the Hungarian language, or used his or her regional or minority language during the proceedings. The current amendment of the law replaces the text of the regional or minority language of the circle with the text of the ethnic language of the circle, or the text of the minority or regional language of the time. With these amendments, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities rather than previous regional or minority definitions. Using the concept of a new language of nationality according to law for the sake of uniform use of terms, which we fully agree with on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The importance of the language of nationality, the use of the mother tongue, is also shown by the fact that the Council of Europe established a European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages in Strasbourg on 5 November 1992, which recognises that, in addition to the official language of the State in question, the use of the mother tongue of nationalities in that country should not only be tolerated but should be facilitated and encouraged, both in private life and public life, orally and in writing. ( 0.10)Hungary ratified the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages on 26 April 1995 and entered into force on 1 March 1998, extending it as a recognised language to German, Croatian, Romanian, Serbian, Slovenian and Slovak languages. For example, the teaching of ethnic languages is taking place in ethnic public education institutions. One of the important points in the use of the language of nationalities is to ensure the use of nationality in administrative procedures and in the administration of justice. With this legislation, the Hungarian State ensures compliance with the requirements laid down in the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, which we welcome from the nationalities living in Hungary. In view of this and on the basis of this, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary II of 2012 on infringements, infringement procedures and the system of registration of infringements. T/6625, amending Act T/6625. It agrees with and supports its adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2015-11-16-395	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, Congressman Peter Agh, Fidesz.
u2015-11-16-396	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The proposed legislation does not contain any conceptual changes compared to previous legislation, but the experience gained by the law enforcement bodies since the entry into force of the new code and the fulfilment of EU legal obligations justify the current amendment. The right of infringement includes, on the one hand, acts which are less dangerous to society and, on the other, behaviour which violates the order of the public administration. The new code has broken with previous legislation on several points, for example, the concept of non-compliance has changed, substantive rules have changed and could still be classified. The legislative amendment aims to correct these problems, to correct shortcomings and to comply with the harmonisation of EU legislation. The bill is Btk. establish a framework for guaranteeing fundamental rights in accordance with its regulatory principles and with the rules of procedure appearing in Community standards. In order to ensure this, I ask the House to support the bill.
u2015-11-16-397	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2015-11-16-398	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At this late hour, I'd like to start with the positives on the bill. Most of the provisions of the proposal which improve the coherence of the Violent Law are particularly forward-looking, the new provision on the right of representation is also to be welcomed, and the proposal also mentions new infringement situations which may also be considered a proportionate legislative response. Allowing juvenile detention to be suspended is a step in the right direction. However, I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that, in December 2011, in the debate on the Violent Crime Act, we have already drawn attention to the fact that we are also against the use of detention against minors on a principle basis. After all, we've all heard of a so-called criminal career that could be triggered by such a regulation. I am sure that this is not the intention of the legislator, but unfortunately, this was possible in the act of infringement. There is a somewhat positive change here, but the original problem is still not solved by the proposal. We have tabled an amendment, which was also discussed by the Defence and Police Committee, as the bill was intended to impose a non-partisan obligation to transmit data in infringement proceedings to public and municipal bodies as well as public bodies, business organisations and civil society organisations, while the safety of transport is in the public interest to be protected, it is not possible to impose an obligation on economic operators and civil society organisations to provide data appropriate to the purpose of the infringement authority. In our view, only data which are required or have the right to be processed by the requested bodies may be required to be reported in the infringement law. In the request, it was necessary to specify the purpose of data processing more precisely than the text of the bill, and to provide guarantees for the requested data base, and to do so we submitted an amendment. This was welcomed by both the committee and the rapporteur. However, another element of the proposal, which has also been proposed, has unfortunately not been supported by the committee, the amended facts of the unauthorized sale in the public domain proposal seemed to be exaggerated, and in the case of public areas it would be of little importance to retain ownership, rather than the public contribution, or the rules on sales. So, to sum up, in December 2011, already in the debate on the new Violent Crime Act, we expressed a sharp criticism and explained that the new Code is twisting the logic of the infringement law. As regards sanctions, it introduced a rigour typical of criminal law, while not only maintaining a simpler procedure with fewer guarantees, but also substantially extending the scope of the determining authorities. Thus, in essence, the government abuses the potential of infringement law and allows the authorities of the State to act with the toughest means, even the smallest of infringements, to avoid guarantees of criminal proceedings. And we also challenged the lack of professionalism of the law. Since then, there have been a lot of amendments to the Violent Law, always in the form of salad laws, and otherwise the bill that we have just tabled confirms our criticisms at that time. It also amends the law on a number of points. Most of the proposed amendments are undoubtedly forward-looking, but do not remedy the fundamental and conceptual errors of the Code of Offences. So we continue to believe that we need to replace the current fundamentally wrong law, by clarifying the relationship between the law of infringement, criminal law and the law of non-compliance and by re-regulation at systemic level. We will therefore not be able to support this kind of conversion of the existing code by voting in favour. Thank you.
u2015-11-16-399	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás, please.
u2015-11-16-400	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2012, the new infringement law, which established a system based on the principle of gradual infringement procedure, effective and rapid procedures, came into force. The current amendment is justified by practical experience since then. In particular, the proposal introduces new legal institutions and new facts to improve the effectiveness of procedural law and proposes amendments to the text of certain existing facts. The opposition amendment proposals supported by the government clarify the text of the bill in relation to the legal institution of the newly introduced request and the illegal public sales infringement, as amended by the bill. In addition to the proposals for amendments by the supported representatives of the National Defence and Police Committee designated for the hearing of the bill, the bill was made with a proposal clarifying both the technical and linguistic aspects of the bill. The Legislative Committee has made an amendment which provides the basis for the application of the revenue from the payment of an on-the-spot fine imposed by the Public Space Inspectorate to the local government. With the amended facts, the bill is intended to make the established practice smoother and to ensure effective detection through the introduction of new legal institutions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-401	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place at our next meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain law enforcement laws to fulfil the obligations of the European Union and for other purposes and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/6634. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame, which does not need to be exhausted. [[Defiance.]] [[0.20]] I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, please.
u2015-11-16-402	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/6634 was discussed by the Legislative Committee on the 5th of November 2015. A proposal for a bill amending certain law enforcement laws for the purpose of fulfilling European Union obligations for other purposes and, in this context, the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. The amended amendment adopted contains the proposed amendment of 15 points of the Defence and Police Committee, which recommends adjustments of a linguistic or legal nature necessary to establish or maintain the coherence of the norm. Thus, it makes the following legislation even more specific than the legislative proposal. XXXI of 1996 on fire control, technical backup and fire department Act XII of 1998 on travel abroad Act CLIX of 1997 on Armed Security, Nature Conservation and Field Watch. Act LXIV of 1990 on cooperation and exchange of information in the framework of the European Union law enforcement information system and the International Criminal Police Organisation Act LXXXVIII of 2013 on the APB system and on the search and identification of persons, things. Law. I'd like your support, please. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-16-403	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. In that case, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee, here you are.
u2015-11-16-404	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee is the resolution house rule 32. T/6634. The detailed discussion of the bill amending certain law enforcement laws for the purpose of fulfilling the European Union's obligation and for other purposes. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee during the detailed discussion during the second stage of the decision house rule 45. § (1) discussed the proposals for amendments received and examined whether they complied with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The committee shall adopt the Rules of Procedure 45. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5, the supported representatives submitted a proposal for a Commission amendment, which closed a detailed debate, including a proposal for amendment and its own intention to amend it. The committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 27 October. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-16-405	Thank you very much. Representatives' speeches are coming, two minutes are not allowed. First, a written congresswoman, Márta Demeter, MSZP, please.
u2015-11-16-406	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Briefly, our comments on the bill. The provisions ensuring cooperation with Interpol and ensuring the application of the Schengen system can be explicitly welcomed, the question being, for example, whose business is the vocational training of armed security guards and the system of further training to be introduced now. This question has already been asked in the general debate. For the undertakings concerned, it may have a significant impact on the amendment of the Fire Control Act proposed. The requirement to carry out inspections with accredited organisations and the obligation to install fire alarms may seem logical to regulate them. However, the impact of changes to the rules on fire protection regulations, the employment of fire protection professionals and construction products on economic life is completely unpredictable on the basis of the wording. It is also questionable how acceptable the new provision of the APB on refusal of information is for the right of information self-determination. The actual functioning of missing persons wanted is certainly to be welcomed. However, it is questionable whether, as in criminal proceedings, the possibility of polygraphing witnesses is justified. So, overall, we welcome the development of cooperation with Interpol. At the same time, we reject the fact that once again the government has submitted a salad law to Parliament, since they are bound by so much that they all fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. In the law on basically criminal cooperation, several elements of the Fire Protection Act, but even the amendment to the law establishing the training of armed security guards and the compulsory further training of armed security guards, were crammed into it by the author. In the case of these latter amendments, it is not clear who will benefit from this business in the future. So, since we do not support the practice of submitting salad law, the fact is that there are elements to be welcomed in the bill, we will not support the whole of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-16-407	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Speaker of State Secretary, please.
u2015-11-16-408	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The aim of the bill is to make the activities of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies more effective and to bring them into line with recent changes in EU legislation and to create legal conditions for law enforcement authorities in Hungary to have access to the data stored in the Interpol wanted system by the organisation of the international criminal police. The amendments are in line with EU legislation and significantly promote the effective and effective activities of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies. They contribute greatly to the maintenance of Hungary's legal order and public security. The amendment tabled to the bill, which is supported by the government, contains technical clarifications. The bill before you promotes the effective and effective functioning of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies, contributing to the maintenance of Hungary's legal order and public security. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2015-11-16-409	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on legislative amendments to the administrative bureaucracy reduction and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/6410. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, Congressman Vas Imre.
u2015-11-16-410	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6410 on 5 November 2015. a bill on amendments to the law on administrative bureaucracy reduction and, in this context, the House Rule 46 of the Decision. It adopted an amendment and a summary report, with 29 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, without voting against. The adopted summary report shall contain the 28-point amendment of the Judicial Committee and the legislative committee's own amendment. I think it's T/6410. We are fulfilling our constitutional obligation by adopting the bill on legislative amendments relating to administrative bureaucracy, and I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[0.30]]
u2015-11-16-411	Thank you very much. The rapporteur indicated that he did not wish to comment. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, rapporteur for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. You have six minutes. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-412	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice, poštovana Skupštino! U vezi zakona o smanjenju birrokratije u janom sektoru u ime Narodnosnog odbora Mađarsog Parlamenta iznosim stav o predlogu zakona. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/6410 on amendments to the law on administrative bureaucracy reduction As advocate of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I wish to present in the detailed debate the provisions of the bill concerning nationalities in Hungary: 16 amendments were tabled to the bill on the agenda. Our committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled by its representatives. On behalf of the members of the committee, there was no proposal for an amendment of its own. In view of this, the Committee has not tabled a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is the bill 85. § 4 and Article 164 As regards §2 of the EC Treaty, he entered the debate phase. Nevertheless, I think it is important to note that the thirteen nationalities in Hungary are generally involved in the whole of the bill, since citizens of nationality are also procedural subjects of administrative procedures, so as to mention only the most general and broad spectrum area of legislation. In addition, persons who claim to be nationalities are at least as involved in individual sectoral legislation as they do not have nationality. In a number of areas of law, domestic legislation is subject to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, and in the vast majority it creates a legal background for the exercise of nationality law. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is the draft law on the agenda, Chapter 47, Chapter 85. Section 2 of the Act provides that the 2003 XCII on the Rules of Taxation is to be found. Act No. 164 and Chapter 84. He expressed his opinion on the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the registration procedure contained in §8 of the Act. Following the general debate, none of the 16 amendments tabled by the Members of Parliament concerned the sections discussed by the committee on nationality. This leads to the conclusion that the Hungarian Parliament recognises the efforts to enforce the rights of nationality. With regard to the Tax Code, the proposed legislation aims, inter alia, to allow national authorities to contact the tax authority directly and ask him for information on any public debt to their representatives. The creation of this right is essential in order to ensure that, in the event of a public debt, the national government can act legally against the nationality representative not included in the public debt-free database. The committee on nationality expressed its concern in relation to the proposal to amend the law on registration procedures, which is the subject of the agenda item, according to which the Act 81/D. Paragraph 4 of the Act would be added, as follows:. The authority issuing the identity card is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Law 16. For the purpose of issuing an identity card applied for pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 3, the person belonging to the nationality shall be entitled to take the name of the person belonging to the nationality with direct access from the electronic register. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This legislative proposal is an extremely significant provision for citizens of nationality. The inclusion of a nationality name in a personal document is important for those who fear for their nationality identity. The advocates of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities consider the adoption of this bill a first step towards the introduction of full bilingual personal documents. For the future, the full bilingualism of identity documents is the goal of the nationalities living in Hungary. Our committee supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. Hvala na pažnji! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-413	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from representatives. There's no way to make a two-minute comment. I shall first address the Member who has been registered in writing. Congressman Robert Simon, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-414	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Shorter deadlines for administration and much less fees will result if we in Parliament accept T/6410. a legislative proposal to reduce red tape. The loss of revenue does not undermine the state, because the amount that falls out of the state budget as a result of the abolition of tariffs is not significant compared to the total budget. It's about 10 billion forints. The aim is therefore faster and simpler and cheaper for the customer. The draft law contains in several places a 21-day deadline instead of the current 60 instead of 45 or 30, and as a general rule, public authorities have to deal with matters in 60 days. Last year, 1.3 million cases were decided after 60 days. It will therefore not be possible to extend an unjustified deadline, for example, to decide sooner than building permits, market surveillance procedures or labour inspections. In short, a number of additional procedures, such as environmental licensing, police complaint handling, issuing of operating permits or recognition of foreign certificates. It also has an impact on simplification that there will be a need for a moral certificate in far fewer places than we are now. For example, if in an authorisation process the authority wants to know whether the client has no criminal record, it simply requests the data from the register. The draft law includes a number of facilitations, the essence of which is that the activity will no longer be subject to authorisation or notification from 2016. I would like to point out that it is for the acceleration that much more cases will be dealt with electronically than they are at present. Following the adoption of the draft law, fees will be abolished for several administrative procedures from 1 January 2016 and shortly after the amendment of the tax law. I will mention only the most important of these for the first time in the case of individuals: application for a moral certificate, issue of an ID card and address card, replacement of stolen documents, tax card if required for theft, issue of a driver's license for the first time, change of name due to a change in marital status, issue of student ID and teacher ID, replacement of a disabled parking card. The most important things for businesses can be: company statement and company copy, if requested by the company member or manager, business card administration, business license procedure, e-mailing of business documents, permission for demolition, construction and entry into service of houses of less than 160 square meters. A Hungarian citizen can save up to 100,000 forints a year. Ladies and gentlemen, Reducing red tape and increasing competitiveness is also a key issue because our regional competitors are not idle, they are tirelessly fighting for the same goals. To be successful in the region and in the international field, effective measures are needed, including the reduction of state bureaucracy. I think it's T/6410. We are also fulfilling our constitutional obligation by adopting a bill amending the law on administrative bureaucracy. The Fidesz fraction supports the bill. I would ask the members of the rest of Parliament to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-16-415	Thank you very much. Now a normal word as a petitioner, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. [[0.40]]
u2015-11-16-416	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In many cases, we have also said in this law that, of course, we agree with the reduction of bureaucracy, as all the parliamentary parties so far have agreed since 1990, and have implemented it more or less successfully. There is one thing, however, that I would like to point out in this respect, with regard to the law, that we can support any proposal if it wishes to speed up or reduce bureaucracy without prejudice to customer rights. There is a rule in this package, and we have also tabled a proposal to amend it, which may, for example, result in a reduction in the right to redress or a reduction in other customer rights. Therefore, we can consider supporting the proposal if you support and take these amendments into account. Of course, it is also a condition of this if the amendment that you have tabled later, which is practically nothing more than personalised legislation from you, is removed from the law, i.e. that amendment will not be voted in favour. I am thinking here - you know quite well - of the possibility of using the consumer rapporteur, because the amendment that was tabled was a proposal for amendment by the Justice Committee, so the TAB background material, which changed the logic of the original amendment. In the future, the rapporteur will not be required to have a recognised consumer protection qualification, but to have a certificate of formal qualifications of an out-of-school nature. That's a literal quote. To put it simply, a private company will complicate the training of the rapporteur, obviously the private company that will be close to one of Szilárd Németh's interests, if our information is not very misleading. You can't support that. That is, Mr Secretary of State, in the event that this proposal is out of the question, it will be voted off by the Parliament or if they can support our amendments. Once again, we agree with the reduction of bureaucracy on a principle basis, and there are good and forward-looking provisions in the proposal. I would ask for consideration of the amendments, as requested at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-16-417	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, please.
u2015-11-16-418	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are talking about a salad law involving 110 amendments. That is not the problem, or there is nothing wrong with it, or there is something good about it, and it is that the simplification of administrative procedures and its acceleration can be talked about with a calm spirit. This has already been discussed in terms of time limits, so I would not go into repetitions. I would like to add one additional thought to what my fellow Member Bárándy has said, which basically concerns the issue of physical and personal conditions, in fact, that, for civil servants and government officials, I am talking about the periods of two Orbán governments, i.e. the second and third Orbán governments, the civil servants' salary was frozen at HUF 38 650, looking back six years. There has not been a government cycle - looking back on the moment of the change of regime - before there has been a cycle where the civil servant's salary base has not increased within the four-year period. Now this is true during the period of two consecutive Orbán governments, i.e. they did not grow, the 38 650 forints were frozen. I would also like to draw attention to the adoption of this draft law that the existence of personal and material conditions, the necessary existence of them, is essential. So perhaps it would also be worth focusing on this issue and, in practice, in the next period, to present direct wage developments and not in such a way or in such a way as to provide resources, but to provide them with the funds that appear directly in the salary by raising the salary base. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider, take into account, and, if possible, to support the strengthening of this thinking, once again, using the old language, to initiate an increase in the civil servant's salary base within the government. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-419	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. The floor will be presented to the Secretary of State, Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary. Here.
u2015-11-16-420	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Here we have to argue about TAB decisions, and not about general issues, because they were discussed during the general debate, so only a few brief reflections on what has been said here. My fellow Member, Congressman Bárándy, is behind on a brochure, I could say with a TAB meeting. He spoke about the amendment of the Committee on Justice. He also mentioned the name of Szilárd Németh. This has been completely removed from the proposal. Today, it meets all the conditions of public training and an appropriate TAB amendment proposal can be adopted. So if he says it's acceptable to them, then I'm asking you to support him tomorrow. With regard to customer rights, we are not talking about narrowing down, we are talking about significant discounts or enlargements, because the point of cutting red tape is to achieve the overall social need to reduce bureaucratic burdens. We are amending a hundred and ten laws in this proposal. I would particularly like to thank the fellow Members who have tabled an amendment. I also thank the speaker for his suggestions and for his recognition of the draft law. In this proposal, the general rules of procedure for customer rights, the deadlines for administration, which help to reduce the time limit for gross administration, the authorisation procedures are transformed into notifications and financial legislation is also reduced. We are talking about practically forty proposals, 16 amendments made by Members, two proposals were considered eligible by the Judicial Committee, and a total of 15 per cent of the proposed amendment in connection with the 18 laws compared to the total. A more comprehensive amendment is included in the summary amendment in relation to three laws. I would like to highlight among these the amendments tabled to the Civil Procedure Act, which will further simplify and speed up the process of registration. A total of two laws were proposed to leave the initiative to amend the law, the rest contains both technical and linguistic clarification, as well as legal interpretation problems and difficulties in applying the law, which we thank for. I think, fellow Members, that one of the fundamental questions is how long before the matter can be resolved. This is regulated both by law and by government decree. In several cases, these general rules have been overwritten by the legislator. Here we propose a reduction of 200 deadlines in 120 cases, which reduces the deadline by 25 percent on average. We believe that it is necessary to limit its future extension, because only by law will it be possible to extend the deadline for administration and to extend it. Not only does the length of the cases affect the detailed administrative deadline, but in many cases the administrative deadline is extended. The possibility of this is no longer possible. In 2014, 115,000 cases were used for suspension, with an average suspension period of more than 3 months. This option will be significantly reduced in the future. [[0.50]] One of the new legal institutions is the pending decision in force, and the essence of this is, as has been said in the general debate, that the procedure must be completed within 60 days, and, if this does not happen, customer rights will be extended, since the procedural cost will be refunded and the levy will also be exempted. Dear fellow Members, In the case of second-degree procedures, we also extend customer rights in the sense that these procedures cannot be repealed, but that the second-degree authority will be obliged to act on its merits. At the beginning, I said that in some 25 procedures, the obligation to notify is sufficient, and the guarantee rules remain. As a comprehensive multi-case amendment, it has been codified in more than 20 cases that the client does not have to submit an official certificate - said Mr Simon - and the case can be questioned from the register, and in the other law we provide that costs can also be reduced. Dear fellow Members, Finally, I would like to say that there is a proposal before you today that, bearing in mind the guarantees of the rule of law, will pave the way for us to continue in the future, because this is the first package, if it is allowed to use this term, keeping in the direction, avoiding the dim dark and once again the side streets leading to the quagmire. The idea, the aim, is a real reduction of bureaucratic burdens, which has long been formulated within us, but in the absence of action it has disappeared until now, because we want to achieve, in the spirit of mutual trust between the citizen and the state, that these bureaucracy cuts are not two marathons running side by side for months, which they have been preparing and practicing for, but the client is a light shifter, with which the state and the client share trust, helping each other, supporting each other for the common goal, fighting for easier and easier procedures for everyone, thus fulfilling his function as primary, i.e. cutting red tape. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-16-421	Thank you very much, especially at 0:00 and 51:00 for the great metaphors. Decisions will take place, Mr Parliament, on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The 2003 XCII on the system of taxation follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain tax laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6636. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented. First of all, Congressman Vas Imre, please.
u2015-11-16-422	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 13 November 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2003 XCII on the rules of taxation. T/6636 on the amendment of Act T/6636 and certain tax laws. Bill No. 1. I would like to emphasise the importance of this bill. The system of taxation regulates the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration, and we can say that, although we can observe continuous progress in recent years, although both fiscal and tax laws were adopted in the spring, further measures are still needed. One of the amendments is intended to create the conditions for the organisation of a new type of employee share programme, as well as specific tax rules related thereto, in order to create the conditions for a more direct interest of employees in improving the effectiveness of the employer. In addition, pointing out another important amendment, the proposal establishes the consistency between the law on the right of association, the law on public benefit status and the law on the functioning and support of civil society organisations and the law on corporation tax and dividend taxation. The Committee adopted the summary report by 23 votes to 1, with 8 abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-16-423	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi gives the minority opinion.
u2015-11-16-424	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As we are talking about the detailed debate, namely the Commission's amendments, I do not want to open the general debate, but I just want to talk about what was strange at the TAB meeting, and what is forecasting the afterlife of this law, how it will come to us. In particular, there was a proposal for an amendment from the Economic Committee, which was finally not supported by the Government or the national committee before the Legislative Committee. This would have been about the fact that as of July next year, there would be a system for installing an automatic surveillance unit in vending machines, and this would ensure that there would be a communication between the NAV server and the vending machines, so that the NAV could see immediately if someone bought something from a vending machine. You want to fight this first, I imagine, again, against concealing anything from the revenue and traffic of the vending machines to the NAV. Otherwise, it would not be a problem, because if you say that you want to whiten the economy and have an ambition to do so, the Jobbik Hungary Movement can even support it. It's just weird, you know, now it's got to be an online cash register in the last grocer on the corner. We didn't have a problem with that either, besides the fact that it shouldn't have been heavily charged to small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, but the state could have paid for, let's say, the construction and purchase of these online cash registers, and then everything would have been all right. But that is not our problem, our problem is that as long as, let's say, in the last arctic spicy one, they are now connected to the NAV immediately - because you will bring them in - it is not so important to you in a very important sector, and it is not so strict. In particular, in casinos, where I think there is much less traffic and revenue than in a vending machine, they no longer feel the need to be tied up, and the NAV can see exactly what kind of traffic a casino is running. Okay, I know that today in Hungary there can be two gentlemen who can run a casino, both of which are closely related to you now, if they are going to have a fight with them, then they are not, but at this moment they are still your people and your oligarchs, one of them is Andy Vajna. When this issue is raised, it is Minister of State Tállai, who is responsible for the conversion of the NAV, that there is no problem here, and the certification requirements and camera monitoring of casinos are sufficient for this purpose, so there is no need to use any online cash registers or any NAV connection. Then you looked into what could happen here, how this certification could work, which was mentioned by this camera system, and you could find that the 8 Hungarian gaming casinos currently have 1056 cameras, and this supports Mr. State Secretary, only here is the twist in the whole thing, who are sitting in these camera rooms, the casino organizers and the casino organizers. So it looks like the whole thing is that Andy Vajna checks himself to see if everything is legit in his casino, checks himself to see if he confesses to his entire income, his entire turnover, and even checks in all likelihood that he will then tax normally. However, this is a rather strange situation in my opinion today, at the moment in Hungary. So I would like to ask you to include in this law, if you will bring this law again before the House, and in this law, when you will be able to see the traffic at the vending machines immediately, so that you can see their revenues, so that you can see their money, too, so that you can see what traffic is actually being carried out, that after this traffic you will be properly taxed and protected, so that you do not accidentally deceive Andy Vajna, and that would also be good, and that the NAV check them very seriously. [[1.00]] I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, that the next time this law is introduced, the casinos should be included so that casinos can be checked immediately, immediately and with real revenues by the NAV. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-425	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Secretary of State if he wants to react now.
u2015-11-16-426	Later.
u2015-11-16-427	Later. In this case, Honourable Parliament, since the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, there will be speeches from its representatives, there will be no two-minute comment. First, I give the floor to the Member who has applied in advance in writing. Congressman László Kucsák, Fidesz, please.
u2015-11-16-428	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In addition to the codification and clarification provisions, we have a proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the rules on taxation and to amend certain tax laws, which contains a number of substantive changes, of which I would just like to highlight the most important ones. The proposal clearly defines the concept of a reliable and risky taxpayer or provides for the classification of a taxpayer in the event of a merger or merger between firms; the concept of a basic interest rate differential in order to ensure its consistent applicability. It is necessary to delete the requirement for a securities-distributor test because the capital market requirement system does not impose such a condition. In addition, the exemption provision for the free acquisition of securities, shares and shares under the employee part-owner scheme is exempt from the gifting levy. For businesses, it is important that 7.5 percent of both the toll paid abroad and the domestic toll paid can be deducted from the business tax. The amendment also states that the possibility of granting tax advantages to municipalities is increased, i.e. tax relief for all entrepreneurs in the tax regulation. Tax reductions may amount to 10 per cent of the direct cost of basic research, applied research or experimental development in the tax year. The municipality may decide only and exclusively whether or not to introduce the tax relief into a regulation, or not to make any other rule, so it cannot regulate the amount, content and scope of the tax advantage. Furthermore, the scope of the provisions on growth tax credit is clarified, stating that taxpayers meeting the conditions for a growth tax credit must pay the tax payable on the amount of the growth tax credit in the corporate tax return for the fiscal year, but not more than the tax due for the tax year, the amount established in respect of the tax advance already paid, in the timetable provided for by law. The bill and the additional clarifications will reduce the burden on businesses and the administration citizens, so please support them. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-16-429	Attila Mesterházy is next, MSZP.
u2015-11-16-430	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the amendment of the Law on the Rules of Taxation, as my Fidesz fellow Member said before me, contains a number of forward-looking amendments. I would also like to highlight a few, which is certainly worthy of support. First, I think the most important thing is that the reliable and risky taxpayer classification - as my Fidesz fellow Member said - will actually appear after the adoption of the law. I consider this to be very important because it is in some way possible to recognise entrepreneurs who are acting on the basis of fair market behaviour or who continue to respect the different rules and obligations fairly. This has been a serious request of entrepreneurs for a very long time, too, that it would be huge support from the government, the current government, if the state could force Hungarian entrepreneurs to behave fairly against the black economy, to comply with the competition rules. Several times during taxation, companies have been told that, let's say, in a county, a large taxpayer received a continuous tax check, whether it was controlled for months or even a year by that entrepreneur - one of the biggest taxpayers in that county - and after a six-month or one-year period, it turned out that he could not have been found to have committed any infringement. This was one of the threads of the APEH's activities and the other of the biggest taxpayers in the county, however, the APEH agreed with the largest taxpayer on how, in what details, how, how much of its tax debt might be repaid. So I think it is important in any case that there is a difference in such a case and that there should be some positive assessment. I think it is also an important and good direction for the legislator to say that if a reliable taxpayer fails or fails to comply with its obligation to notify and report or to report it correctly, the reliable taxpayer will be called upon to fulfil the obligation without imposing a default penalty, by setting a deadline, or even to correct the error. In general, I think it would be worthwhile for the government to think, similarly in advance, about where it could be with other authorities, whether the consumer protection authority or the labour authority or other authorities, to apply the same approach. Therefore, for those who do not seem to be committed intentionally or regularly, the intention to impose fines should not immediately be the first to arise from the authority, but rather the order to follow the rules, and, where appropriate, a form of tolerance. Many people say that, perhaps if I remember correctly, to have such a yellow flat system, not to immediately impose a fine, but to have an opportunity to warn. We also believe that it is good that NAV will return the refundable VAT to these taxpayers within 45 days, and even if I understood the draft law correctly, this repayment obligation would be reduced to 30 days from 1 January 2018. I could say that it is almost dreamy that the APEH will return the necessary VAT within 30 days, because earlier - there are logical reasons for this - the last days have been used by the APEH in the referral, as this can be influenced by the general government deficit. Nevertheless, we believe that this is a positive thing, and we trust that this will then actually happen in practice. The second important point is that the proposal would strengthen the provisions relating to the tax registration procedure on several points. I think it's been a serious problem for a long time, and now the company's managers would be included in the I.D. process. This is important, because in many cases the managers have solved a problem, a debt settlement, by bankrupting the company, and then establishing another one. It is worth checking out somewhere, and this tax registration process can in any way be suitable, and it can also examine individuals in this respect. The third, I think, is an important change in tax returns. From 2016 the employer is able to make a declaration to the employee concerned, and the employer is responsible for any error, so these consequences are borne by the employer in the event that the taxpayer receives income only from the employer.From 2017 the State would also accept the tax return of individuals, which it sends to the taxpayer, and if it approves it, it will take effect from then on; we also believe that this is a forward-looking step. The question is, of course, how will this be achieved in the course of technique and daily practice, because the devil is always in the details, but regardless of the intention, the goal must be supported in any way. The fourth point is the question of tax incentives for environmentally sound cars. Here we would rather say the lack that, if I took it well out of the various debates, Fidesz MEPs also complained: it is more for companies to make progress or make a financial contribution, and if individuals would like to buy a car that is electrically powered, then for them it is not a serious opportunity or discount, since for individuals, the 27 percent VAT is not touched by the government, which must have many budgetary reasons. [[1.10]] Nevertheless, we would encourage the government here to take action in this direction because of environmental problems. It is also positive that a certain percentage of the fee paid for the use of different roads can also be deducted from the tax payable to the transport companies to the municipality, and the discounts or favourable administrative procedures relating to the business tax will also help entrepreneurs. What we would still consider important, and this is also a good initiative, is that if someone pays the required fee to the wrong place at the IPEH or refers it to a wrong public account, the NAV will resolve this in-house. This is a legitimate request of both entrepreneurs and private individuals for a long time that what the state can resolve within its own system should be resolved, and not for the citizen or entrepreneur to be subjected to repeated requests for data or correction, while the state itself could do so. There is one point where I would argue with the Secretary of State of Tallai. He said that the government won the freedom fight in connection with the pálinka brewing. I rather see that you have lost it, but that is to be expected, because earlier it could be concluded that the European Union will not allow what the government has introduced. So you have to pay 700 forints in the form of a tax ticket for a litre of brandy, which, I think, does not allow for free production by individuals. Nevertheless, we believe that there are a number of provisions in this current amendment that are certainly worthy of support. Rather, we have the question mark that, in daily practice, with such deadlines - both the 30-day deadline for VAT reimbursement and the preparation of tax returns - the state apparatus, the technical background and administration will be able to prepare within such a short period of time to smoothly complicate them, since all good intentions can easily fail in bad daily implementation. So for my part, I think it is worth considering for our group whether it supports this current draft legislation. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-11-16-431	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2015-11-16-432	Mr President, Dear House, Not continuing the general debate, but I think it is important to point out that if this draft stays in this form, the tax ruling, the declaration of return in this respect, would still only be granted to a Hungarian citizen under subject law if he did not avail himself of a tax benefit, he would not apply a tax benefit. Quite simply in Hungarian, this means that newlyweds with children can practically fail this option in a conditional way, so it is not quite certain that they will be guaranteed. We therefore call again on the government to clarify its own paragraphs, because it would be very simple, because the employer already knows about the potential children, the fetus, the blessed state, and is obviously aware of the fact that someone is newly married, because in determining the advance, the employer already knows about the child, the fetus, and the blessed state. Therefore, all instruments are available in order to ensure that all Hungarian citizens in the relevant circle are given the possibility by the legislator to remove, where appropriate, the liability of the tax authority in respect of the declaration that has been partly unduly depressed. If such a preferential option is already mentioned, then our proposal and our clear point is that it should be implemented as widely as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-16-433	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, please, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-16-434	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I owe you two thanks. One of the thanks is to Members and members of the Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee, who have discussed the amendments and have tabled new amendments. However, this is a significant number, since the bill itself started in a small number, but by the time it is adopted, I think it will be a relatively large bill. The interesting thing about this bill is that it does not essentially serve to increase burdens and red tape, but rather, on the contrary, it means cutting red tape, reducing administration, making it easier for citizens and making it easier for entrepreneurs. There are few regulations that are, in fact, extra burdens. I would also like to thank the three Members who have spoken here, Imre Vas, László Kucsák and Attila Mesterházy, because in his 9-minute speech he was basically just praising the bill. Therefore, I do not really have to tell you now that, compared to the original bill, the Economic Committee has tabled individual representatives' proposals and what amendments the Legislative Committee has tabled. I would like to highlight some of these things that have not been said. For example, the amendment of the local tax law, where the tax payable may be reduced by 10% of the costs of R &amp; D by those taxpayers in the event that this is included in a decree by the municipality. Either the Economic Committee's proposed amendment to apply to the foreign vehicle tax in the future, a transfer can be made to the car tax and not to the tax stamp; or I would like to highlight the amendment that, like the claim for a loan, will now be exempt from the financial leasing contract; the amendment and clarification of the civil law, where investment taxation will also be exempt in the future. We can see that, overall, a positive amendment is being made, and the amendments make it even better, making the bill to be adopted tomorrow more entrepreneur-friendly and citizen-friendly. However, I cannot help but reacting to the suggestion of Mr György Szilágyi in the case of a particular casino, because it is said every day, and at 0:00 and 57 minutes he considered it important to say it as a Commission opinion, so allow me to respond to this. I think that Jobbik and MSZP are both mistaken when they think that casinos have a weaker control system than, say, the online cash register. To say that when you tell yourself that there are 1056 cameras in the eight casinos, and that means that there are at least 120 cameras in a casino, that in the case of an online cash register, they don't count the proceeds in front of the cameras, the camera doesn't buy, say, the moment they forget to enter the cash register. But in casinos, the 120 cameras, if you believe it, Congressman, if you don't, you're gonna have to look at this a little bit more, take every step of the way. This system was invented before the online cash register [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] And that's why it turned out to be much, much tougher. Casinos are open for 0-24 hours. You don't really think, Congressman, that the IRS will send people there for 0-24 hours to sit in the camera room all the time and watch what happens in the casino? [[György Szilágyi: After how long will the recordings be deleted?]] This is at the expense of the entrepreneur. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] The recordings are recorded, the recordings are always monitored by Gambling Control. In a casino, three to four inspections a week are carried out by the Gambling Authority with a record. So you need to look into what you're talking about and then stand up in Parliament and then tell me. [[György Szilágyi: When will the recordings be deleted?]]
u2015-11-16-435	Now, the Secretary of State has the floor, and I'd like to ask you to reduce yourselves a little bit, and the Secretary of State has to talk about the subject. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-436	I have a little more time, so I'd like to tell you. So it is claimed that a forint can be taken in the casino without being recorded by the camera, so at least five people need to know that the casino can take one forint or 100 forints of income untaxed. [[György Szilágyi: No, only Andy Vajna needs it!]] [[1.20]] I think that you are mistaken, Mr Szilágyi, when you judge the government, and by the way, you should tell us how this online casino would work in the case of live gambling. Explain to me how the online cash register system works when someone sits at the table and changes money, buys chips. That's why the camera's made up to record everything. And by the way, the people in the camera room, there are three of them, they go into the building on separate entrances, and they don't meet the people in the casino room. It's deliberately separated in a separate locker room. I think that anyone who knows this system and knows how it works or at least talks to one of them will be told that this system is significantly stricter than any other existing system. It's simply impossible to untax the money from this system. But for the next time, I'm going to show you how many checks the Gambling Authority has done in these eight casinos, how many reports it's made, and what the content of them is. Once and for all, the accusation of these casino owners that they are thieves has to be stopped, because that is simply not true. [[György Szilágyi: I need verification!]] The check-up is done, no matter how he yells, because it's happening, it's a record of evidence from Gambling Control. So I think it's gonna be nice to take it back a little bit and people like that. [[György Szilágyi interrupts, the president rings.]] should not be accused, especially of the government, which are completely unfounded. By the way, thank you very much for supporting the bill. [[György Szilágyi applauds for a long time.]]
u2015-11-16-437	Thank you very much. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the introduction of international financial reporting standards for specific reporting purposes, as well as on the submission of amendments to certain financial legislation, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/6638. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The position of the Legislative Committee follows. Congressman László Kucsák, please.
u2015-11-16-438	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/6638 on 12 November 2015. a proposal for a law relating to the introduction of international financial reporting standards for specific reporting purposes in Hungary and amending certain laws on financial matters, and for that, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, with 10 abstentions, without voting against. The summarised amendment also includes parts of the texts submitted by the Economic Committee for changes in substance and the codification specifications of the Legislative Committee. This bill amends both the Accounting Act, the Local Taxation Act and the Corporate Tax and dividend Tax Act, and other sectoral legislation is amended. The aim of the bill is to transpose the International Accounting Standard IFRS into Hungarian law. The IFRS system is a global accounting regulatory system. The differences between standards and domestical accounting rules are typically found in the application of a principle approach rather than specific, specific or taxatically formulated rules. The main features of this regulatory system are the financial approach and investor-centred information provision, on the basis of which the standard-makers have defined the scope of the instruments and obligations to be displayed and the valuation rules. Thus, due to the application of IFRS for specific reporting purposes, only those areas that are not covered by IFRSs or arising from differences in local regulation and IFRSs should be covered in the Accounting Act. The proposal would introduce IFRSs in several stages only for certain entrepreneurs, thus ensuring sufficient preparation time and choice for farmers. In addition to the Accounting Act, amendments to the Law on Local Taxes, the Tao Law and other sectoral laws are also necessary in the context of the transition to IFRS. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-16-439	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak now as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] At the end, he wishes. The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, I will inform you of this. There are now speeches by Members, and there is no way to make a two-minute comment. First, I give the floor to the Member, Mr Jenő Manninger, Fidesz. Here.
u2015-11-16-440	Mr President, Dear House, As we have just said, with the bill before us, we are fulfilling an obligation to harmonise EU legislation and allow me not to explain the amendments in detail at this late hour, as this did not usually lead to a debate, since it is a proposal of a professional nature, the introduction of EU harmonisation. The amendments concerned undertakings eligible for concession activities, inter alia. In addition, in points 11 and 12, for example, both Hungarian accounting and IFRS-based companies have been allowed to deduct from their net turnover the sum of the public health product tax on the subject of the public health product tax and the alcoholic beverages charged to it. In addition, the bill makes amendments to a number of accounting laws. It also clarifies the provisions on mandatory rotation of auditors and audit firms. I believe that the bill and the proposals to amend it will improve domestic accounting rules and, as we join European standards, will increase Hungary's competitiveness. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendments and the Commission's report. Thank you.
u2015-11-16-441	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2015-11-16-442	Thank you very much. Mr President, So after an hour, before two o'clock, it's really time to tell you that whoever ever reads these records should pay for a beer, except for those who are present, because they heard it. It's pointless to have any discussion between one and two hours. Nevertheless, let us really talk about this amendment to the very important laws related to the introduction of international financial reporting standards in Hungary for specific reporting purposes and to certain financial matters. We can only say good things about this draft law; once again, to give Mr Tállai a few pleasant moments, it is indeed right and good that we are talking about the transposition of an EU financial directive. We believe that this is beneficial and commendable in any way, which is why it is a viable direction, because reports drawn up on the basis of the same principles, in the same structure and with the same content make it easier for economic operators to assess the financial and financial situation of the partners. It can be seen, however, that this is more favourable for larger enterprises, more capitalised enterprises, while for small and medium-sized enterprises it is more difficult and more costly, even if they can choose only this option, where appropriate. Therefore, if we have any doubts about the transposition of this directive, it is that for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the accounting and audit profession, the transition can be cost-intensive and time-consuming, so that it can have negative consequences for them in the short term. And we have one question, which we may not only have here during today's debate, but in the course of the previous proposal, the rapporteur did not state whether, in the course of the amendment of the Law on the Chamber of Auditors, negotiations with the Chamber had been conducted and whether their opinions had been included in this proposal. If the Secretary of State can give me some kind of reassuring answer, I'd appreciate it. Forward on the path of peace! Go ahead, thank you. [[1.30]]
u2015-11-16-443	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr András Tállai has the floor as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-444	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would first like to reply to Congressman Mesterházy. Of course, the government conducted it, not only with the auditors, but with all the professional organisations, because after two years of preparation it came to the Parliament with a complete consensus of professionalism, and this is felt in the debate, since no faction essentially expressed a negative opinion. I am not taking the time to list the content of some technical amendments either, but I would rather thank you for your participation in the debate and ask all the factions to support the bill in tomorrow's vote.
u2015-11-16-445	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. The speeches following the agenda will now be followed, first by Mr Zoltán Bóna. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-446	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, "The Danube, which is past, present, and future, embraces one another with its soft waves," recalls Attila József at Duna's, which inspired the statue in the part of Kossuth Square near the quay. If we take into account recent events and trends, we can conclude that the most serious global challenges and threats to our present and future are due to the destruction of our environment and to improper stewardship with our natural resources. For Hungary and Hungary, one of the most important natural treasures has always been the Danube. There is no doubt that the economic and social role of the Danube has changed over the past centuries, but this change does not mean and cannot mean that it is less valuable and less important. In our constantly evolving and transforming world, it is our job to find a way to ensure that development and change do not empty or overwrite our common natural, social and cultural values, but adapt them properly to a positive development as an integral part of it. Almost every meter of the nearly 3,000 kilometers long river is beautiful and unique, but there is a small section that is different from the others, and which has enormous potential. This section is nothing more than the Ráckevei in Soroksári Danube, which is simply called the Little Danube by the people around it, including me. Those who have had the opportunity to go along this river section by boat or boat or by sea can no doubt confirm that the small marker in this case not only refers to size, but also to the intimate attachment that this water of calm and picturesque beauty creates at the first meeting. We have a value that we should not only be proud of and appreciate, but we must work with all our might to make sure that the potential of it can be fulfilled and to help build and enjoy the people who live there, as well as domestic and international visitors. The Kis-Duna is the narrower branch on the east side of the island of Csepel, separated from the main river by a floodgate in the north and south. Thanks to the airlocks, the current of the water can hardly be felt, resulting in a river with reeds, which stretches about 60 km long, and is almost dead-water-like, surrounded by resorts, bathing areas, sports facilities and fishing facilities. It can be said that since the change of regime, the majority of governments have tried to take action on the development and reconstruction of this diverse and diverse region with little or more success. There is a reason why we have managed to achieve significant results, among which is the RSD waste water project, which is expected to be successfully completed in the coming weeks. This large-scale investment will lead to a significant improvement in the water quality of Kis-Danube and will contribute to the feasibility of future infrastructure developments. However, the development and implementation of a comprehensive and inclusive concept is still one of our tasks. In order for the Kis-Danube and its surroundings to develop into a recreational, touristic and sports centre at European level, to which it has all the potential, we still have a lot of work to do. It is a long, time-consuming project, energy and financial resources, but I am convinced that it is worth the effort. One of the most important elements of the complex programme is the further improvement of water quality. To this end, it is essential that the purified sewage from the South-Pest Wastewater Plant is discharged to the main branch of the Csepel Island instead of the low-flow, slow-moving Small-Danube. Also, the tasks to be solved include removing the mud mass accumulated over decades from the waterbed. Of course, success requires not only central government action. Already in the development and rethink of the strategy, there is a need for broad and closer cooperation with local authorities, civil society organisations and existing or potential economic operators in the area. As a representative of Szigetszentmiklós and several settlements off the coast of Kis-Duna, I consider this programme one of my most important local objectives. The development and implementation of a coordinated action plan would be an enormous opportunity and progress for Szigetszentmiklós and its surrounding agglomeration region. In addition, I firmly believe that the development of the Ráckevei in Soroksári Danube is not only for the long-term benefit of the population living in the area, but also for the long-term benefit of all Hungarians. This is our work; and it is not too few - with this line of verse already quoted I thank you for all the steps that have been taken, and I ask for your cooperation in the future as well. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-16-447	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs is next, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-16-448	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When, in the spirit of the self-destructive and suicidal Willkommenskultur, Europe's deranged leaders lure our future executioners here, or refuse to do anything about the invading threat of disaster, there is increased attention to those organizations that protect and protect the safety, life and physical integrity of Hungarian people. After all, as the tragic but predictable Paris bloodbath has shown, terror has become a daily threat in Europe. The day before yesterday Madrid, yesterday Paris, tomorrow Berlin, the day after tomorrow perhaps Budapest. In this situation, it is certainly not unnecessary to give a few words to the railway guard activity, which is otherwise not in the spotlight, since, when it comes to the safety of our country, it is obvious that we should also talk a little about one of the most vulnerable and easiest accessible infrastructure networks, the railway and its safety. Although the latest news on the website of the VDSZZ is that the light may have flashed at the end of the tunnel, because the public procurement concerning the outsourcing of railway guards has already been published, but the railway guards may now be integrated into MÁV Zrt. Why is it so important, my fellow members of the government, all of this? Why would it be good not only to listen to the orders of their powerful support officers who are standing on new greasy bites as a money - hungry shark but also to listen to warning voices? The length of our railway infrastructure is about 7,300 kilometers, with hundreds of potential targets. MÁV carries almost 150 million passengers per year and rail freight transport carries 10 billion tonnes of freight per year. Often very dangerous substances capable of causing a mass disaster in the event of an accident or a terrorist act. Such a large railway infrastructure and the protection of so many passengers is a challenging task, even for those with decades of professional experience such as Vasútőr Kft. effective railway guards. In such a dangerous situation, anyone who decides to weaken this organization will act exactly as in 1918, at the end of the World War, in the most extreme times Prime Minister Károlyi's minister of war, the alcoholic Béla Linder, who even drove our soldiers home from the fronts in complete order and with military equipment. You can deny the obvious facts, you can excuse the vile certificate, but you can't deal with professional arguments. If the government were willing to negotiate seriously with the union, they would also be told that the Railway Company Ltd. Railway guards are professional railway safety professionals, who know who should be notified in the event of an emergency and in what order, they are familiar with the internal instructions of the MÁV, the operation of the railway operation, the conditions of subordination, which is a very important advantage for an organisation based on a military hierarchy such as the railway. However, outsourcing, considered harmful by railwaymen, will lead to the exodus of railway guards, thus losing valuable professional knowledge for the railway. Those exploited security slaves who will be employed next year will never learn the railroad, since their circles have a turnover of almost 80 percent annually, so if they want to, they won't have time to learn it by rail. [[1.40]] Ergo, it's gonna be easier for someone who's planning any mischief against the travelling crowd. If, in accordance with the Government's intentions, railway guard activity is still outsourced to the civil property sector, the wolf laws of the market will prevail. Along with all the cursed side effects of black employment. Dead tired, underpaid, unmotivated workers should take care of the 400-500 thousand passengers a day. And why would that happen? Because certain economic circles with good political relations are used to cheating billions of forints of taxes and contributions without consequences, because the state cannot and does not want to tidy up the asset protection sector. With this courage, they thought it was time to extend their tentacles to another prey. The winner of the public procurement will be paid by MÁV for nearly HUF 2 000 per hour, but the tender winner will, according to well-established practice, pass the whole thing down for HUF 800, say, to a Ukrainian agency of labour, which will eventually pay Hungarian employees an hour of HUF 400. That's why Jobbik is demanding that they really stop outsourcing as a matter of urgency. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-449	Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-11-16-450	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In fact, today and last week, I have had several times and the better Members have the opportunity to express why we do not agree with the privatisation of state land. I would not repeat these arguments, which is why we regretted this morning from 8:00 a.m. that we did not convince the government of these arguments and unfortunately launched the sale of the last national assets. I am now trying to prove that even under these circumstances Jobbik has tried to bring forward all means to at least try to eliminate the dangers that are now lurking on this state land in the midst of this intention. So I would point out here at the outset that, of course, we still disagree with privatisation, we condemn that, and we have tried to prevent it by all means, but if that is what you are going to do, let us look at the dangers that we must rule out in these circumstances. First, Jobbik wanted to limit the possibilities of political actors, i.e. to avoid you being interested, as decision-makers, either as members of the government or as Members of Parliament, in circumvention of this national wealth. Therefore, today we have placed a statement on the table of all Members of Parliament and all members of the Government, in which we would have expected you to make a statement whether you wish to participate in today's bids personally, through relatives or by delegates. We regretted that we had not received one of these completed statements from the government side, so they simply refused to speak openly and honestly about whether you would like to participate in the conversion of the land lease system, which has now been converted into land sales, as beneficiaries of this scheme, if you have developed this system for yourself at all. The other is such a great threat to speculator or large capital. In this regard, Jobbik sought to incorporate several defensive mechanisms. The only thing we have in common with these proposals is that they have all been swept off without a substantive debate, and this has not been the first time. We are very sorry that the state lands have been derailed to the level of the gang war, but it would have been good to follow, for example, the law on plant regulation that we submitted to the House a year ago, and which, by the way, was highly praised by independent experts and even other opposition politicians. In addition, it complies with the EU framework, which you so often refer to. And yet, if it had been accepted, it would have been possible to limit the large plant. We also tabled this week to József Ángyán his previous amendments, which he made in the debate on the Land Traffic Act. These would have given us the opportunity to ensure that our country can be counted together so that only a family of farmers can collect a decent estate size. They would also have provided an opportunity to acquire a maximum of a quarter of the land at the border of a settlement, regardless of its size. And what is perhaps the most important of all is the degree of family comprehensibility. In practice, it can be seen that each sphere of interest is playing out the maximum size of the estate today by practically dividing the area into the names of the close relatives. Also, the existence of a bid in itself, we believe, is an opportunity to gain capital. After all, there is a capitalist enterprise here with a strong advantage over local family farmers. I mean, the highest bidder on the bid is gonna take the state land. I still have to deal with the foreigners, which has come in as a threat to the government's newest pull. I have the Hungarian Gazette in front of me, in which Zsolt Semjén signed the amendment of the decree, which allows foreigners to start their bidding today and now from 8:00 a.m. yesterday morning, and this will be the case throughout the bidding process. In this regard, Jobbik also initiated a fundamental amendment to the Law on National Property, the Land Traffic Act and the National Land Fund Act. We have all made these amendments in order to make it impossible for foreigners to own or buy any land in Hungary. We know the dangers of this, we know well that this must be boxed against Brussels, and that the renegotiation of the accession treaties is perhaps the most effective and sustainable. Unfortunately, all of this has been missed by the government, and it has launched pretense freedom fights that are virtually uninterested in the survival of the Hungarian nation, while it sneaks around on the most important issues. I hope that someday we will get a meaningful answer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-451	Thank you very much. Congressman Novak, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-16-452	With Miklós Horthy's entry into Budapest, he has brought the glorious decades of our history for 96 years. Dear Parliament, This is the title of my speech after the agenda. I would also like to add quickly that this happened after our Romanian occupation of the systematic looting of Hungary. I am somewhat sorry that Speaker László Kövér did not think it necessary to remember this before the agenda. But at least now, after the agenda, let me give some thought to this, unfortunately, now only to my better fellow Members. Although we had already slipped through around 2:00 a.m. to the day after the anniversary, some thoughts may need to be said. After all, if I compared the cultural policies of the Horthy era and the Orbán government or at least the second and third prime ministers, they would offer themselves a scandalously good pair of opponents. However, before I deepen myself, say, in the fruitful comparison of Ferenc Herczeg and Imre Kertés' work, I would sail into more dangerous waters or sail in style. The work of Count Klebelsberg Kunó, perhaps the finest minister of the Horthy era, is recognized by almost everyone. It would be a cheap and perhaps timid solution simply to honor the Horthy era on the basis of the late cult minister's activities. Of course, it doesn't matter whether they accept the culture policy of Klebelsberg from the heart or simply from the heart, because, for example, the name of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center was also the name of the niece of the former Minister, Count Éva Klebelsberg, rightfully, and he suggested that if this institution was already in place, it would be more appropriate to use the name of György Aczél. You said that, didn't you, Eva Klebelsberg? However, while it is a cultural heritage, it may arise whether the restoration of the Trianon Monument Group in Szabadság Square, built in 1920, will be undertaken by the current government in the near future. The question is poetic, of course, but the answer is prose. Not only do they not restore this group of monuments, even the Soviet authoritarian monument of Liberty Square can unfortunately remain there. I think that it is right to criticize the Horthy era from both left and right, but we say that despite the fact that even the Horthy era was corrupt to its core, it was not an example for us, yet there was a national minimum, even the liberals in Hungary had a national feeling, the non-revisionists were disfellowshipped from among themselves, there was evidence of support for the Hungarian language, culture, school and church. And it all came from the heart. Today, these poor political calculations have become a plaything for choices. [[1.50]] It is worth mentioning, while I am talking about revision, that not only has the Horthy era's revision policy been successful, but it could be successful and an example today. During the last 25 years, the policy has missed half a dozen revision opportunities - from a study by former Secretary of State for Defence Ernő Raffay. Starting on 1 December 1991, when 80 percent of the people living there voted for autonomy in the referendum in Transcarpathia and were signed five days later, the shameful Ukrainian-Hungarian treaty, which gave up everything, was concluded until 26 September 2005, when the unconditional Romanian accession to the EU was voted here against its earlier promise, even by Viktor Orbán. They gave up half a dozen options. However, if you want to celebrate Trianon here and are celebrated year after year by the current government, we recommend that you have something to celebrate, even on the basis of the Horthy era, the first and second Viennese decision. Yeah, he deserves a fireworks show every year. It wasn't easy in the Horthy era. What is that it was not easy, it was not only the First World War, the Red Terror and, above all, Trianon that Hungary suffered, but also the Spanish flu, whose name may not seem so scary, but it has become the greatest epidemic in human history. Then the Horthy era was also hit by the Great Depression, which led by István Bethlen to collapse overnight for almost ten years. Yet, under Horthy's administration, the population of our country has increased by more than a million people, which I think should be the main indicator of the effectiveness of the current government. It is also worth mentioning that when Miklós Horthy was resigned, the family estate was the same size as when he was elected governor. Despite all this, in 1993 there was neither a state nor a military tribute to shame, and even an important public area is still not named anywhere. In addition to his chivalry, charakanism, wisdom, education, perhaps I would like to highlight his warrior and indescribable anticommunism longer if there was time, and I would recommend this to the housekeeper in the future to remember this glorious anniversary of his own initiative in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-16-453	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Good night, everyone. Tomorrow, Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 1:52 p.m.]]
