u2015-03-03-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you and welcome those who are monitoring our work today. The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, notary Adam Mirkóczki and Attila Gelencsér will be of assistance to me. On this day, the Sunday closed: nonstop amok jogging! Mr Zoltán Lukács, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, The law on Sunday's lockdown has not yet been put in place, and it seems that most likely those who have said that this law is not good, faulty, and inadequate for what it wants to achieve are right. On the one hand, it was a question of family belonging to the law, and it is already apparent that this law is not going to meet its purpose, and on the other hand, workers' rights have been spoken of by those who, by the way, have taken these workers' rights away from these workers not so long ago in the Labour Code, and it can be seen that they are not a great step forward in respect of workers' rights, and some of them have been quite firmly restraining these rights. There was a survey recently: two thirds of people disagree with this Sunday closure, most of the professional organisations disagree with it, but you still get away with it. In the debate of the law, they said that there would be no layoffs, and hundreds of people have been laid off, and even groups of companies, which mostly have small ABCs all day and night, say that now, in the present situation, one in four of their people has to be divorced, and if this stays so, a lot of small ABCs can be destroyed, and more people can be put on the street. You promised 100 percent on Sunday, and you submitted such a proposal, and then you submitted a counterproposal that does not give you the 100 percent on Sunday. We are now at the point that the proposal that would give us this 100 percent wage supplement on Sunday has been removed from the agenda. By the way, you took the extra wage and allowed it to decrease to 50 percent, and now it looks like you're trying to fool these people again because you don't want to give back this extra wage. But even if it's returned, it's only returned in trade, and we're arguing that, because we're saying that if there's a 100 percent wage supplement on Sunday, it doesn't just go to trade. We said that if there is a replacement wage in the ABC, there is also a replacement in the industrial park, so if we are talking about a 100 percent Sunday wage supplement, we cannot limit it to trade, just as we should not limit Sunday free to trade, because there are a lot more people working everywhere else than in trade; their Sunday work and their families do not seem to bother you. Here are the nonstop grocery stores that are in danger, they could only be open at night if either the owner or his family member were working. Everyone can see that the owner can't work every night in a store, and his family can't work every night; I'm not talking about how if the whole family works every night in the store, it's how it works for the family to live together. In fact, there are also some who operate trade chains, there is a owner who has 25 shops open 24 hours a day; I find it quite difficult to imagine that one owner and his wife will work in 25 nights a day shop - you can see that this is impossible. What's going to happen is, these stores have to shut down a lot. But this is not only a problem for those who work there, but also for those who are served by them: only 300 employees work in Budapest only in a group of small shops, and they serve 9,000 customers at night, the 9,000 people who usually work at night, taxi drivers, policemen, health care workers and others who shop in these shops, now it is impossible for them to buy at night in these shops. We also have to tell you that your idea of the Metro chain is interesting. Now you have tabled an amendment that, according to your decision, the Metro chain is not a wholesale trade, but a retail trade, so it can't be open on weekends, Sundays, and the times at which you won't allow it. It's an interesting way of dealing with this case, however, that the retail trade that you decide to sell doesn't matter if that chain of stores is involved in wholesale trading, if you decide to be a retailer, it's a retailer. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer talk about the economic implications of this: the tax loss of 200-250 billion and the social care of people who lose their jobs - these are very important issues, and they show that this law is not good. But consider that, although the shops will be closed on April 12th, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Aykhan, Tapolca and Sümegen too, but the polling stations will be open, and people who do not like this regulation will know that they must vote not for you, but for the socialists. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If this law is so wrong, then it actually has its interests: it is in the interest of the MSZP. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's right!]] Then why is the congressman upset about this? [[Zoltán Lukács: Because I represent people, not MSZP!]] If the people are represented by the congressman, then those people should be left-wing parties, such as workers, workers and workers, who work on Sundays from 6:00 to 10:00 in the morning in trade, those hundreds of thousands of people should be protected. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] the mother who can't cook her Sunday lunches for her family, because she has to be available at work, in trade. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And the peasant?]] the mother who can't prepare her child for tomorrow's, the next day's, Monday's school, prepare her dress, discuss her homework, and ask her if she's learned it. These workers, people should be protected. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Ambulance, firefighter, policeman?!]] But if the Hungarian Socialist Party now, if the polls show that most people now say that this closure is not necessary, then it is now on that side and not on that side, on the side of the 300,000 people who have to leave the four weekends three or four times on Sunday at 6 a.m. [[Zoltán Lukács: Don't you have to go to the industrial park?!]] That's the problem. I believe that the government's goal [[Zoltán Lukács intervenes.]] Members who have submitted this bill, which was supported by the government and accepted by a large majority by the Parliament, have a clear aim: they clearly took the side of the workers, on the weekend and on the day of rest, by exempting them from work on Sundays and holidays by legislation. [[Zoltán Lukács: Why only in trade?]] The purpose of the law is clear, the stated priority is clear: to give people a rest day, to these people by Sunday, so that they can spend it with their families. As far as jobs are concerned, statistics show that there is a significant shortage of labour in trade, so it is clear that if there is a temporary shift between shops, all trade workers will eventually find their jobs, find jobs, and thus provide income for their families. [[9.10]] Customer habits are expected to be transformed, adapted to the decision of the law, according to which basically shopping will have to take place by Saturday evening. This will mean that, in addition to the same traffic, work for six days will obviously be more and more employees will be needed in these commercial units. Besides, there are a lot of exceptions to Sunday's opening hours. In no case will the country remain without supply, there will be no people left, since even within the given retail activity, if the size of the business does not exceed 200 sq m, it may be open, or if the owner or his family member or family member works in it. Therefore, there are also exceptions to the activity. We believe that in other European countries there is much stricter regulation on Sunday's opening and closing. Otherwise, there is no uniform regulation in the European Union, each country can decide for itself which shops, activities it allows or does not allow for opening hours and work on Sundays. The test of pudding is to eat, let us wait until the law comes into force on 15 March, and then we will sum up the experience, not in advance, as Congressman has just done. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In danger, Mr István Ikotity of the LMP Group, with the title of the Bridge to the world of work, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Two weeks ago, I dealt with an immediate question here in Parliament to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, János Lázár, responsible for EU payments, about the suspicious spending of the National Roma Municipality. The LMP is seriously concerned about what is really happening around the EU's project of catching up the bridge to work, the implementation of which is attended as consortium leader by the National Roma Municipality, led by the former Fidesz representative of Flórian Farkas. The question of whether they would explore the suspicious payment conditions was answered by Mr. János Lázár, that he should first acquire personal experience with the help of Flórian Farkas, to make sure what happened in particular. Flórián Farkas didn't want to meet us at the Gellérthegy utca program office. Although no other information has been provided, apart from the documents available from the Internet, we have managed to clarify important issues. Turns out they actually bought offices for hundreds of millions of forints. To our question why a project office had to be opened in such an elite area, they replied that the ministries from Buda were close and that Strabag's leaders could not be welcomed anywhere. They couldn't tell exactly how many people worked in the otherwise two-storey office, but they mentioned at least 20 people. When we went, there weren't nearly that many of them, by the way. We also saw some of the office furniture purchased for HUF 31 million gross. A lot of them weren't even unpacked, they were filmed. We checked the server room. As we know, a computer network was built for a gross HUF 70 million. Of which 20 million were the hardware, the device, and 30 million were the assembly of these devices. This server was in a room of about two square meters, and it was assembled for 30 million forints. Another 20 million HUF is a study about software specification, i.e. what software to buy for these devices. These numbers speak for themselves, I think. It also turned out that cars were actually rented for HUF 500,000 a month each. So I will make it clear to Mr State Secretary that for nothing less than what was said two weeks ago, cars were rented for half a million forints a month. They admitted that. They told me that. The answer to the question of why the price is several times higher than that of the market was that, on the one hand, they did not know if half a million forints a month was a lot to rent a car. On the other hand, they will go into difficult terrain, and Roma people will sit in them. By the way, a number of these racist speeches were made, mowing on a trench, working instead of dredging machines; they were not Roma people, none were there. In addition, they also told us that seven of the ten cars are Opel Corsa, the other three are Opel Mokka, mid-class cars, for half a million forints each and every month. It also turned out that the $30 million project management cost indicated actually means consulting, someone giving advice to those who were there to manage the project for HUF 30 million. They also did not deny that the recruitment of participants in the program was carried out grossly for more than HUF 10 million, while we received a number of indications that this was carried out by representatives of minority self-governments. This document was prepared for 31 million forints, unfortunately they could not show it, it is located in another office's closet, they gave the answer. Dear House, We went in person, made our way around, saw the almost empty office with our own eyes, received very little specific information. Catching up with disadvantaged people is a very important task, training and employment programmes need to be screamed out, money for this must be spent efficiently and transparently for every penny. We are talking about a very large sum of HUF 5 billion, which is why we are very concerned that these billions of forints will be asked back by the Union when they start looking into it. We must not get to this point, the government must use every means to detect abuses, we must not allow this matter to be settled by some kind of rapid EMMI investigation; at other times, the entire investigation apparatus has been dealt with in far less suspicious cases. We think that's what we need to do right now. Where's the Kehi at this hour? The non-corruption and effective use of catching-up resources is in the interest of all of us. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-03-03-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me make a little clarification. Congressman has always talked about catching up, these are catching up programmes, precisely because we want to avoid the kind of paternalism that was typical of the previous 20 years, and to offer these people the opportunity to work themselves, with their own strength, to make a decent living, and not to keep them in poverty in a world of aid, as previous governments did in socialist times. But that was just a parentheses note. You also reported that you were on the scene, leaving with your colleague, and in many cases this was thought to be a kind of press event rather than a meaningful investigation, and you tried to create a scandal taste for this entrance. Somehow you've managed to do this in a couple of ten minutes, or I don't know, spend an hour or so there. [[István Ikotity: An hour and a half!]] In an hour and a half, you can see the spending of HUF 5 billion and give a final opinion on it. They don't want a quick EMMI scan, but you've seen through everything in an hour and a half, and you know perfectly well how regular the spending was there or not. [[György Szilágyi: Once the problem is that they don't go, once it's an hour and a half.]] But I believe that this is a very important achievement in the direction of transparency that you have said, Congressman. You spoke here in Parliament two weeks ago. You said you had suspicions about the execution and execution of this project. It hasn't been a week, and you could have been at the site of this project, because here in Parliament we told you to go and personally make sure that the things you say, what you're saying are real or not real. There was no secrecy, there was no hold-up. There have been similar suspicions in many projects over the past 20 years, but there have been few opposition representatives who have been able to be there within a week and have been able to see for themselves how this project is going on. Here you said it was a multi-billion-forint project. You told me a few items here, for example, that ten cars are rented for 500 thousand forints... [[István Ikotity: They rent one for that!]] - then, anyway, so now you've seen certain contracts, obviously the investigation will find out. So how cars are rented, one or two studies were challenged, which are obviously quite large in total, a few ten million forints, but they still represent only a few percent of the total project, where you dispute the usefulness of them at all. [[9.20]] So he had a comprehensive opportunity to look at the implementation of the project as a whole, and he found only a few percent of the questions that really, really need to be looked at, whether they were regular or useful. You know very well that the experts of the Ministry are also going through these, to see if they were really useful, really regular spending. But the controversial issues still affect only a few percent of the overall project. I think if that's the way things are, that there's only a few percent of the item at all, that would be beneficial. [[György Szilágyi: Look through the whole thing! The president's ringing the bell.]] A few words from the right-wing Members on this issue are a little loud. At the same time, you did not contest the purpose of this training either, since it is essentially about creating an employment cooperative. The point is to create professionals who were previously unemployed, but within this framework as plumbers, woodworkers, sculptors, waterproofers, warmers, vegetable and fruit processors, trained sewing workers, trained kitchen helpers or other jobs that they can acquire, work here, and participate in this large national employment cooperative and thus enter the world of work. In the context of a previous amendment to the law, such an employment cooperative can be set up if a national minority government and at least five hundred natural persons are members. That's how it turned out. This project was created to support it. What you have said is the costs of the organizational and infrastructure development of the employment cooperative, the preparation of its operation, because it is an organisation with national coverage. You've given us different preparation tasks and office equipment. These were needed according to the project documents because 1200 people participated in various training courses and trainings related to the functioning of the social economy. In March 2013, this cooperative was formed with 730 people, and since then it has become a new member. As I said, 1,200 people have already taken part in these training courses, which allow them to return or return to the labour force and have been prepared for a further 2,800 people. A thousand people will take part in the training accredited from spring this year, in which they will be trained as OKJ, and then as members of the employment cooperative, our hopes and the project show that they will enter the world of the labour market. In addition, although my five minutes are over, I could have mentioned to you how many hundreds of thousands of people are participating in other employment promotion programmes, and we hope that the employment support programmes will include as much as possible in the labour market, and that many of them are obviously Roma-born in these programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to try to follow the time frame another time. Mr László Földi, Member of the KDNP Group, with the title "It is good to remember the beauty, which is required by the blow of fate," came forward to speak before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The anniversary of the revolution and the war of independence of 1848-49 is approaching, and remembering is especially important for us people in South Pest County. We are in a lucky position to have something to think about, to have something to talk about, to meditate on. Cegléd celebrated last year the 650th anniversary of his declaration as a town of agriculture. Our history is rich, one of the highlights of which was when Lajos Kossuth gave his first highly influential speech in our city on September 24, 1848. The so-called Kossuth-teracce is also located in Cegléd. Lajos Kossuth announced the release of the serf and presented Lajos Batthyány, the country's responsible Prime Minister, on the guest balcony of the Green Diófa Bratislava. The balcony is located in the garden of the Reformed Great Church in Cegléd. Cegléd is the city of Kossuth, and we are proud of our traditions. In recognition of this, the tradition of the Kossuth cult in Cegléd was added to the national list of intellectual cultural heritage in 2014 on the basis of a proposal from the Committee of the Hungarian National Committee of UNESCO. The documentation for the nomination was prepared by the Kossuth Museum two years ago. Here I would like to thank Erzsébet Reznák Museum Director, the Turini Hundreds Delegation and the Cegléd Museum Friendly Circle. The historical wealth of the region shows that we can be proud of János Arany in Nagykőrös. Between 1851 and 1860 János Arany taught at the high school of the city for nine years. It was the brightest time in the city's cultural history. Nagykőrös was always proud to give home and bread to the great Hungarian poet in the most difficult period, after the fall of the freedom struggle. Yesterday, March 2, 198 years ago, János Arany was born. This will be remembered this week In Nagykőrös, the Arany János Balladátó competition, where Hungarian high school students in the Carpathian Basin are also expected. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been talking about good memories, but of course, our region was also not avoided by the Second World War and the subsequent period of distress. In Hungary, prisoners of war were formed in the autumn of 1944. There were more than fifty collection camps in the territory of Hungary in Trianon, where there were 1 000 to 40,000 prisoners per camp. The largest detention camp in the Carpathian Basin and Central Europe was the Cegléd, with a total of 200,000 prisoners. In May 1945, nearly 130,000 were at the same time in the hussars' barracks for the three centuries. Inhumane conditions, lack of nutrition and clothing, and lack of health care resulted in mass deaths in the camps. The dead were buried without a sign in a mass grave or covered with garbage. About 5,000 people lost their lives in Cegléd. We weren't allowed to talk about what happened for a long time. We weren't even allowed to enter the barracks. Many of the prisoners wrote their final message to their loved ones and to posterity on a brick. The collection of this was published last year in his book "The Scrambled History of the Brick Leg." Dr. György Jójárt, the chief doctor of the work, we owe special thanks to him. As a commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the internation of the people of the Carpathian Basin to forced labour in the Soviet Union in 1944-45, the government declared the year 2015 a commemorative year. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] As shown above, we in South Pest County should be proud not only of Kossuth and Gold, but also of XX. It's also a way to recreate the storms of the century. László Takács, mayor of Cegléd and the city council, stand by the fact that the settlement holds the Memorial Year as a priority event. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the government's principle and financial support in order to commemorate merit and establish a place of grace. It is good to remember the beauties of our history, it is mandatory to strike, not only for ourselves, but also for the generations after us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He spoke to us here in Parliament as a real local patriot. It is very right that we should talk about the 650-year-old agricultural towns as well as Cegléd, with such a beautiful memory, a good history and a promising future here in Parliament. You spoke of Lajos Kossuth, but as a national liberal, we could talk about Széchenyi, Deák, Tisza and many others, who were a great political leader of this country, and you can see that their memory is so guarded that that balcony is still one of the centers of the city to the very day, which can truly be the pride of this beautiful, real Hungarian agricultural town, a beautifully renovated church and secular monument building. At the same time, besides the glorious past - which is marked by János Arany and Lajos Kossuth - the Kula mission, the Málenkij robot you mentioned, the drag to the Gulág has torn the owners and intellectuals of these cities. The Communists had no other purpose than to break the previously organically built society. [[9.30]] In connection with Lajos Kossuth, I think many of us who came into this building today obviously remember that soon we will have to wait only a little longer and finally officially hand over the Kossuth Statue of Kossuth Square, the Kossuth Statue of the Square, the Kossuth Statue. The statue of Ferenc Rákóczi, the statue of Count István Tisza, has been restored to Kossuth Square, and the statue of Attila József is also on the Danube bank, at the Danube, you might say. A copy of János Horvay's work, the composition representing the first responsible Hungarian government, will now be inaugurated here in Kossuth Square. His central figure is obviously Lajos Kossuth - in the original form. It is not the socialist realist composition of the Kisfaludy Strobl Zsigmond, which stood here for a long time, because the Communists did not like Lajos Kossuth as he did in history. Therefore, since the forgery of history was not far from them, they created a new composition to be in a different group here, Lajos Kossuth, in a different posture. Here, however, the original group of statues designed, dreamed and created for Kossuth Square, two by the then ministers of the government, and one relief, were placed on the back of the work. This recarved, extended composition will be inaugurated today. I believe that the Ceglédi, the people of Budapest, are proud of this new, beautiful Kossuth statue group in its original form here in Kossuth Square; not only a balcony, but a whole group of statues. Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur referred to Rule XX of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. On a more terrible, painful side of the century, he wrote about the small stones on which he took his own name and place of origin. And to this day, these little message bricks can be seen on the bricks of these former military hussar barracks or other barracks originally established for soldiers. It's shocking, because it's probably the last message anyone has sent home. In many cases, we've heard that each one tried to send a message by throwing out a business card or otherwise. Once again, we know the posters of Recsk, when someone wrote his name on a newspaper, the contact details of his relatives, and he threw it as far away from the Recsk camp as possible, so that someone could find it, so that he could send it to his surviving relatives, who remained at home, to let them know that he is alive and there is Recken. Similarly, the small bricks that can be found there, in Cegléd, in the outer part of the city, in an army seat near the train station or on the walls of the barracks there are shocking. And indeed, since this year we can remember the Málenkaki robot, gulag and abductions from 70 years ago, the government also set up a memorial committee. This one held his first meeting. Congressman has rightly mentioned the role of Cegléd in this terrible situation. After all, many of them were collected in hundreds of thousands of order - or, as you said, in some estimates, hundreds of thousands of thousands - in various places of the country, primarily from Budapest, to Cegléd, there for a while, they did not know what was going to happen to them, and they were taken from there to the Soviet Union for forced labor. All in all, there were many, since, in addition to the prisoners of war you mentioned, 200-230 thousand civilians were taken to the robot Malenkiki; of them 150-170 thousand civilians and boys as prisoners of war, 50-60 thousand men, women, boys and girls as German interns. How these people were collected, there's only one story left, I think I've got time. Many times because Soviet soldiers saw Hitler's name end in an "r," they collected everyone in a settlement whose name ended in an "r." They were dragged to the gulag, and 40 percent never returned home. We have to remember these things in Cegléd. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-03-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. István Szávay, a member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "Communist" which will be difficult to get rid of. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It will be difficult to get rid of the communist, for no one is as dangerous as the recipient of a fallen idea, who no longer defends the idea, but the spoils. We know a lot about Marai, though she did not exactly quote her words on this matter. Now let us let the Communists keep the spoils, and how much they have been accounted for. This didn't happen either, but it's worse than that, we haven't been able to get rid of the spirit of communism 25 years after the change of regime. 25 years after the so-called change of regime, there is still a public debate in Hungary about whether the names of persons related to communism, communist killers, those who establish and operate communism can be borne in Hungary by public institutions or by public areas. The debate was on fire again when a few weeks ago I turned to Minister Zoltán Balog about the renaming of Ságvári Endre Practitioner High School in Szeged. We were shocked to see the process, the circus, the ruse campaign that emerged from this case. We were shocked to see that certain Balliberal circles calling themselves the sole depositary of democratic values began to carve Endre Ságvári into a Democrat. They argued that we should register Ságvári as a Democrat because he was anti-fascist resistant. However, those who say this opinion forget that Endre Ságvári did not fight for a democratic Hungary, he did not want democracy in Hungary, but he fought for the re-founding of a dictatorship demanding the lives of a hundred million people in Hungary. In fact, it's partly because of that, which is why he had to die. On that basis, we might as well consider Stalin an anti-fascist and even turn him into a Democrat. On the same basis, we also reject the terrorist attack on memory policy that István Ujhelyi, the European representative of the Socialists, committed yesterday by symbolically renaming the corridor of the European Parliament in Ságvári. Then, in this debate, let's talk about this, the argument came up quite quickly, with which most of the debates in Hungary can be closed very quickly: Jobbik's problem with Ságvári was that he was Jewish, Fidesz and the government were also Jewish. Now, of course, no one has talked about it, nor has Jobbik talked about it, neither the Fidesz, nor the Fidesz Members, nor the representatives of the government. Because that's not what the story is about. This argument is good for nothing but that this debate, this case, can be derailed from its original track in order to talk about something else. Ságvári was a communist police killer, and it doesn't matter what family he came from. The fact that Ságvári wanted to turn his case into an anti-Semitic case is a perfectly good veterinary horse for the operation of the balliberal intellectual circle, the Hungarian media and public thinking. It should also be said that at the same time, the same opinion dictators claim that the students and teachers of the school stand up for Ságvári as one. At first, it was only about the name and, in fact, identity. But then the argument came up pretty quickly that there are many people here who want to protect Ságvári's person and that system through him. It's not like that either. I have received a number of requests from school students that make it clear that this document really rules at school. Anyone who agrees that Ságvári has no business 25 years after the change of regime in Hungary on behalf of a public institution cannot freely express this opinion. But speaking of Ságvári, the situation isn't just about him. That's why we did a massive fund-raiser with the help of our municipal representatives. Despite the law throughout the country, the streets still bear the names of many communist personalities. Here in Budapest there is György Lukács utca III. in the district, or Aurora Square in the VIII. Felsőszentgyörgyön Lenin utca, Jásztelek Szamuely utca, Boldogőváralján Red Star Street, Rózsa Ferenc Rábapatonán, very serious location, Jászfényszarun Károly Marx, Rajk László, Fürst Sándor, Ságvári Endre. So there's still work to be done on this. We encourage the government, we encourage you to fight this fight, to close the past. There is a law that states what names can no longer be given to public spaces and public institutions. We ask the government to follow this law to everyone, and with the spirit of communism, 25 years after the change of regime, let us finally settle it in symbolic space. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. [[9.40]]
u2015-03-03-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We were thinking that an ex-Saviary student should speak here in the name of Secretary of State Répássy Róbert or me, but it was finally my turn. I believe that the legal situation in Hungary is absolutely clear in relation to these names of public and public institutions. Allow me to quote from the relevant legislation: He was involved in the foundation, construction or maintenance of authoritarian political systems of the century, or an expression or the name of an organisation that has been designated under Article XX (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It refers directly to the authoritarian political system of the century. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This makes it clear that the two XXs are No public or public institution can be named for any person involved in the construction, foundation or maintenance of the authoritarian regime of the century, national socialism and communism. With equal standards, we would like the emblematic figures of the two horrors not to be displayed anywhere, in the names of public institutions, public spaces, civil society organisations, in the names of companies or in the names of newspapers. This law covers in quite detail a number of such applications. It was also clear for 25 years after the change of regime, that while the names of Endre Ságvári were innumerable public areas at the time of the change of regime, his name was borne by countless public institutions, in most cases in full agreement, without any problems, that these institutions had been given new names. In some cases, even before the birth of this law, i.e. obviously because of the democratic approach of the regime change, and elsewhere in recent years, after the adoption of this law in 2012, the steps taken to implement the provisions of Article XX. The institutions named after those connected to the authoritarian regimes of the century were finally removed from the street signs. There are certain cases where it is obviously difficult to decide, because obviously, in the case of Mátyás Rákosi or János Kádár, it is even easier to decide this question, Endre Ságvári was known by less people, and fewer people knew who he was, and that is why there were those who, under the authority of the law, had been directly constructed this part of the law, they could turn to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and they could ask Hungary's best historians for a resolution on whether Endre Ságvári could be linked to the XX. One of the authoritarian regimes of the century - clearly the communist regime here - or is not connected. I would therefore like to quote the resolution of which only one politician, one party, no one was involved in politics, only the public body which is the highest bearer and bearer of science in Hungary, the collector of the best historians: the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. They wrote about Endre Ságvári in their resolution, which has been read for years on the Internet, that he joined the anti-fascist illegal communist movement since the second half of the 1930s. One of the leaders of the National Youth Committee. In 1942, he became an illegal editor of the Peace and Liberty newspaper of the Peace Party in 1944, and his activities were revealed by the Gendarmerie. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And in his attempt to arrest him, he was wounded to death in armed combat. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences concludes that we do not recommend the name of the public area, as in our interpretation XX. In order to maintain the authoritarian political system of the century... [[Members of the LMP enter the meeting room in a T-shirt with the subtitle "Stopaks2 / PAKSTOP" and some of them hold megaphones with the subtitle "Secretized!" Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Continue, Mr. Secretary.]]
u2015-03-03-16	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow the Secretary of State to say what he has to say. A little more self-discipline from the honourable ladies and gentlemen.
u2015-03-03-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The legal situation is therefore clear: public institutions and public areas cannot be named after national socialist or communist leaders. The position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is also clear, as he placed Endre Ságvári in the category not recommended. In this regard, it must be said that, of course, an excellent community has been formed in this high school for years, decades, who have done the work at a very high level, whether as a student or as a teacher, what they have done there for decades, and this community has nothing to fear, because it was not the name that gave this community, it wasn't the name that made Ságvári known throughout Szeged and in the area, but the teachers whose work I think we should recognise this way, and the students who were really ambitious, and who achieved very good results in the name of the high school. There is no urgent time here, as such renaming cannot take place during a period of diligence, only in the time of the summer break, so we have a lot of weeks and months left to consult everyone, everyone involved, Szegedians, teachers and students, and to find a solution that is compatible with the laws in force and acceptable to the Szegedians. Several NGOs, several Szeged organizations, have made various proposals from Hunyadi to Albert Szent-Györgyi [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This high school was named after Hunyadi in '56. So I'm sure we can find a final, legally acceptable solution for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr István Németh, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a new campaign against Hungarian families. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Since July 2013, the European Commission has been examining the transposition and application in Hungary of certain EU legislation, which is part of the so-called third energy package, during which we have had seven problems. The Commission did not accept the provisions of the Hungarian reply sent on 23 October 2013 except for one point, so, in addition to the rejection of the Hungarian reply, the case was closed on 17 November this year and it envisaged the opening of an immediate infringement procedure. Last week, by sending a letter of formal notice, the infringement proceedings against Hungary were launched. In the devious 29-page document, the Commission continues to maintain its objections made before last year; the objections made at the time as a result of the reduction of the rent, challenging the possibility of providing cheap energy to Hungarian families and interfering with the sovereign Hungarian economic and political processes. [[It's constant noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, However, we are now at a point where, while in the pilot procedure they did not conceal that they had a problem with the reduction of the rent, they now convince the public that the procedure was initiated because domestic energy regulation is at several points incompatible with the EU's internal energy market requirements. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and the current procedure, they claim, has nothing to do with price regulation, including the reduction of the overhead. But now let's see if these Brussels claims are true. First, the Commission has a problem with the network tariff system, which, in its view, favours certain consumer groups over others, contrary to EU rules. In Hungarian, they object to the fact that the charges charged to households and to all of you for using the gas network cost less than others, so the Hungarian families can benefit from the reduction of the rent. Another objection by the Commission is that according to Hungarian rules, they determine the costs in too narrow a way, which companies that own the network can pass on to those who use the network. According to bureaucrats, the government could not forbid service providers to include a fixed line charge in their prices for example. But it is also a problem that these companies cannot charge Hungarian consumers the bank transaction tax they pay. They also object that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is not entitled to determine independently [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the rules for calculating tariffs. This, in the Commission's view, could undermine the independence of the regulatory authority. On the other hand, Brussels is also concerned that the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office may issue legislative decrees, making it significantly difficult for market players' right to attack the decisions of the authorities before an independent court. Dear Parliament, Do you remember that we had to make the rules that Brussels was at the time and now to protect the reduction of the rent? That is why we have prohibited the transfer of special taxes and transaction charges to the public to energy suppliers and banks, or that is why MET has been granted a right to legislate. In fact, we all thought that, after last year's elections, the collection of signatures, the creation of a domestic regulatory and control environment, we could continue the policy of reducing the rent in calm conditions, following the rules on the reduction of the bills that Parliament has set out in law. [[9.50]] The signing of two and a half million citizens, the half million peace processions, the three winning elections, the work we have done all pointed in this direction. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The inquiry in Brussels shows that we cannot lose sight, we cannot stop for a moment, because they sing, sue, drag cheese out of our mouths. It is clear that they want to undo the reduction of the rent with great work, determination and great struggle. We're not gonna let that happen. As in recent years, we are asking the government, the parliamentary parties and the Hungarian people to join forces and jointly defend the policy of reducing the costs. Good morning, if you will, Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-20	[[It's constant noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, With all due respect, I would like to ask everyone that there is one more answer before the agenda, so that it can be said under normal circumstances. Mr István Németh Szilárd, on behalf of the Government, will give the answer to the statement by Mr András Aradszki. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for what the Member has to say, which gives a very precise and understandable view of the intention expressed by the Commission of the European Union in order to break the direction, advantages and shift it to directions and situations where this should be dealt with. Mr. Congressman, you know very well that in 2013 the Hungarian Parliament adopted a political statement from our hearts, even because you were one of its authors, and besides others, I was also the author of this statement, which called on the government not to give in to the pressure of EU bureaucracy, to defend our country's rights guaranteed under the basic agreement and to continue consistently with the policy of reducing the costs. Honourable Congressman, I believe that our situation, position and intention have not changed a bit, and therefore we will do everything we can to ensure that the infringement investigation of the European Union does not lead to the result that we should fundamentally change the reduction in the costs. The question is how. My main concern is that this infringement procedure affects a number of Member States other than us: Spain, France, Germany and Italy. I have to say we're in good company. We are quite western, therefore, because we are placed on the bench of shame alongside sufficiently western countries, subject to infringement procedures. But it's a sign of something else. It also indicates that this third energy package in the European Union may also be a problem. It may be a problem, because I do not think that such serious countries can faithfully adapt this legislative environment, these texts, to the expectations of the European Union. But we also have another instrument: we have the adoption of the Energy Union package, which the Commission of the European Union strongly wants and strongly urges. I think that we have room for manoeuvre here, just because the energy Union package can have only one aspect for Hungary, that it can stand up for it if it gives added value, benefits, and gives industry, the economy, a competitive price and the available price to the population, in addition to security of supply. Without it, there is no point in talking about an energy union, without it there is no point in talking about adapting an energy package that is contrary to that. I have to say that the third energy package is launching conflicting processes. It provides us with regulatory processes that are detrimental to consumers, that are detrimental to the economy, that are detrimental to the European economy as a whole. I think, and I am sure that, taking these aspects into account, we can in any way defend this effort and our programme and our policy, because it is not reasonable to adopt what the European Union dictates. It is not reasonable, and it affects the interests of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian workers, the Hungarian economy, and endangers many other values. If we look at what it has resulted in, the consequences of the policy of reducing the rent, I have to say that it has played a significant role in the growth of the Hungarian economy, in the decline in inflation and in the rise in wages, it can be stated that without the reduction of the rent, we could not have achieved these economic results. The European Union must decide what it wants: economic growth or to stop favourable processes within the framework of a formal, bureaucratic procedure. I believe that the Hungarian government will have the right arguments and will be able to enforce the value of the reduction in overhead with sufficient efficiency. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Before we continue our work with the decisions, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President of the Parliament asked for the floor in order of business. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-23	Thank you. Dear House, Mr President, Today will be an important event not far from us in Kossuth Square: the inauguration of the Kossuth statue, which was inaugurated for the first time in 1927, will be the inauguration of it. I would like to initiate this initiation so that each Member of Parliament, each one of its members of public law, can take part in this initiation. I therefore call on the factions to support my proposal to call for a trial break from three quarters to two until the end of the inauguration, and then to continue our work here in this House. Please express your views in one minute and support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear House, I consider this proposal to be a point of order, and accordingly I am ordering a point of order debate, in which one person from each faction can speak in one minute. Please press the button to indicate your intention to speak. Member György Balla of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, we support the proposal. Mr President, we ask that, as requested, you have the power to order a trial break. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-03-26	Thank you very much. Member Tamás Attila Harangozó of the MSZP Group has applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the part of the MSZP fraction, the proposal is in order.
u2015-03-03-28	Thank you very much. Deputy Group Leader György Rubovszky has applied from KDNP.
u2015-03-03-29	Thank you very much. Dear House, The Christian Democratic Group also supports the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-03-03-30	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As there were no more people in the on-the-spot debate, I would like to put the question to the vote. Please, who agrees with the proposal of Vice-President Tamás Sneider, vote now. Wait a minute, the technical staff will be preparing the machine for the vote. Now vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the order of business by 181 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. Accordingly, at the proposed time, Parliament will hold a hearing. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. A final vote on the draft law on the publication of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, is hereby followed. Since no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee for a detailed debate has come forward, we will decide on the text of the bill in the final vote. [[10.00]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2922 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 188 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. A final vote on the bill amending individual laws in relation to the extent of the excise security will follow. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed discussion was not received, the legislative committee did not proceed with the procedure. In the final vote, we will decide on the original text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2801. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 157 votes, 8 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain related laws and the final vote. The submission is T/2250. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the bill did not come forward, but the Government initiated the procedure of the Legislative Committee. T/250/16. No. 2/250/17 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the group of the LMP shall be T/250/6. Amendments Nos 7 and 7, the MSZP Group's amendments T/250/3, 4 and 5 and Jobbik's group T/250/10. The Committee proposed that the amendment be maintained. We'll vote on these first. T/2250/7. Amendment 3 - Proposal for an amendment by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 7 votes in favour, 129 against and 58 abstentions. T/250/6. Amendment 3 - Proposal for an amendment by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. If this is maintained, we cannot decide on the reservations put forward by the MSZP Group because this excludes them. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2250/6 maintains it. Motion No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 22 abstentions. T/2250/3. In the amendment tabled by Bertalan Tóth and Anita Heringes, an amendment was proposed. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 130 against and 22 abstentions. T/2250/4. In the amendment tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Ms Anita Heringes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 129 against and 21 abstentions. T/2250/5. The amendment proposed by Bertalan Tóth and Anita Heringes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept this motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 128 against and 24 abstentions. T/2250/10. Proposal for an amendment tabled by Lajos Kepli and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will uphold the motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 22 votes in favour, 139 against and 33 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2250/16. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 64 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2250/19. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes in favour, 62 against and 1 abstention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. The representatives of the LMP stand up with megaphones and signs in their hands. Dr. András Schiffer, Dr. Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, together, do not know what you are voting on!, István Ikotity, István Ikotity, is against the law, anti-info-torque, anti-conventional in Aarhus, and Benedek Sallai R. Why do you have to encrypt a table with the label "shop of the century" while Dr. Bernadett Szél, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity also raises the megaphone with the subtitles "Secretified" to the top.]] I warn the members of the LMP Group that the Parliamentary Act 38/A has not been complied with. The provisions of Section 5 of the Act. I'll keep the House Committee informed of this. Now we're moving on. It follows the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain administrative laws and the final vote. The submission is T/2329. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2329/9. T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/229/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/229/10; T/2329/229/10; T/2329/229/10; T/2322329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/10; T/2329/22329/10; Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/2329/4. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're voting on first. T/2329/4. The amendment was tabled by Mrs Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 131 against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 19, paragraphs 20 and 23 of the summary amendment proposal, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote. First we decide on these, then we decide on the other points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 19 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee is the 41st draft bill. The Land Traffic Act amends the Land Traffic Act by changing the rule and the power to refuse the lease agreement. At the request of Fidesz, we'll make a separate decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[10.10]] On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on points 19, 20 and 23 of the summarised amendment. First we decide on these, then we decide on the other points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 19 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee is the 41st draft bill. The Land Traffic Act amends the Land Traffic Act by changing the rule and the power to refuse the lease agreement. At the request of Fidesz, we'll make a separate decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present.(10.10) I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 19 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the relevant amendment point by 131 votes in favour, 64 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's how it works!]] In point 20 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee proposes to withdraw the amendment to the law relating to the implementation of the Land Traffic Act. We are voting at the request of the Fidesz Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 20 of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment point without a vote, with 196 votes against and no abstentions. In point 23 of the summary amendment proposal, the Committee may initiate the withdrawal of the essentiality provision. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 23 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment point by 196 votes to none, with no votes in favour. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2329/9. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 130 votes, 44 votes and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. [[Dr. István Józsa: There are no more two-thirds! Interesting.]] In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill is 32 and 41. The adoption of the provisions of §2 of the Act requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a qualified majority 131 yes, 65 not by vote, without abstention. [[Noise. Crying from the benches of the MSZP: We need another vote! Shame on you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please calm down, we'll keep going, we'll keep going. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Good morning, Hungary! István Tukacs applauds.]] We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the provisions which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 130 votes, 65 votes against and 1 abstentions. [[Dr. István Józsa: Look, again 130!]] Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain legal acts. The submission is T/3019. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. T/3019/17 and T/3019/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3019/9, the Group of Jobbik is number 10 and 11 and the group of the MSZP is T/3019/3. Amendment Nos 1 and 4 were initiated. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/3019/11. In the amendment tabled by Csaba Gyüre and others, we decide to maintain the motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 19 votes in favour, 142 votes in favour and 34 votes in favour. T/3019/4. Amendment 3 to the amendment tabled by Gergely Bárándy. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 23 votes in favour. T/3019/3. In the amendment tabled by Gergely Bárándy and Nándor Gúr, we decide on the proposal. Maintenance of the proposal excludes T/3019.9. Amendment No 1 to the amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the 3019/3 will continue. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 65 votes, 128 votes and two abstentions. T/3019.9. The amendment tabled by Csaba Gyüre and Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 135 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. T/3019/10. Csaba Gyüre and Gábor Staudt proposed amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 134 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the group of the national and the group of the MSZP started a separate vote on point 3 of the summary amendment and on points 6, 7 and 10 of the Fidesz Group. First we decide on the initiative of the author and the MSZP and then on the request of Fidesz. We will then decide on further points in the summarised amendment proposal. [[10.20]] In accordance with paragraph 3 of the draft amendment, the rapporteur and the MSZP Group initiated a separate vote on point 3 of the summarised amendment and on points 6, 7 and 10 of the Fidesz Group. First we decide on the initiative of the author and the MSZP and then on the request of Fidesz. We will then decide on further points in the summarised amendment proposal. (10.20) Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, In point 3 of the summarised amendment proposal, the committee proposed a new 28th bill. In addition, the Commission notes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does In this, the Public Service Officers Act 134. The Commission proposes to extend the scope of those who are entitled to the supplement. Both the rapporteur and the MSZP requested a separate decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 3 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point with 65 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. In point 6 of the summary amendment proposal, the Committee shall submit the proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. In this Parliamentary Act 44/A. It proposes the rules governing the issue of a public official attestation. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. The adoption of paragraph 6 shall require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 6 of the summarised amendment. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept point 6 of the summary amendment by 130 votes, 44 votes and 22 abstentions. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Get used to not having it! Dr. András Schiffer and the MSZP fraction applaud.]] In point 7 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall be appointed by Parliament's Act 145. It submits a transitional provision for certificates by supplementing Article 5 of the Act. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 7 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point with 24 votes in favour, 169 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. In point 10 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall draw up Article 45. The Commission proposes to leave Section 4 of the Act, which contains a clause referring to the qualified majority. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide on this. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 10 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the amendment point 130 yes, 65 with no vote and no abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3019/17. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment with 131 votes in favour, 43 votes in favour and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we have to decide on the text of the bill which has been amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the 40th bill. The adoption of the provisions of §2 of the Act requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the provisions requiring a qualified majority with 173 votes against and 22 abstentions, without an acceptance vote. Now the resolution rule is 50. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 3 of this Article, a two-minute hearing is to be ordered. [[It's a short break.]] I am ordering a two-minute trial break within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. (Short pause.) Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats, we will continue with the votes. My fellow Members who did not understand the need for this pause: under the rules of the House of Decisions, the rapporteur may request that the final vote be postponed, and I gave him the opportunity to do so in the two minutes. Mr. Secretary has informed me that we can proceed. We're moving on. My fellow Members, please take your seats. Thank you very much. I'll wait for Minister to take his place. Thank you very much. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the provisions which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority of votes against 131 yes, 43 no and 21 abstentions. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/3116. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3116/8. and the summary report by T/3116/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP's group is the T/316/2/2. Amendment Nos 1 and 3 were proposed to continue. We'll vote on these first. T/3116/3. In the amendment tabled by Mr Tóth, we decide to maintain Mr Tóth's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 41 votes in favour, 154 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. [[10.30]] It's 3116/2. Mr Tóth's motion to vote in Amendment No 1 on the maintenance of Bertalan Tóth's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 43 yeses, 153 votes not, without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3116/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes, 43 votes and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask my fellow Members, I ask the Parliament whether it accepts T/3116/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal 131 yeses, 65 votes not, without abstention. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to the restructuring of the regional administration system. The submission was made in T/3115. This number is available to all of them on the parliamentary IT network. T/3115/14. T/3115/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section T/3115/5, the Group of the MSZP Group of the LMP Group is T/315/3. and 6 and Jobbik Group is T/315/4. It initiated the continuation of an amending proposal. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/3115/6. The amendment tabled by Mr Lajos Korózs proposes that the motion be maintained. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment proposal by 65 yes, 131 votes not, without abstention. T/315/3 The amendment tabled by Ms Anita Heringes follows the motion. If the proposal is maintained, we cannot decide on the request for reservation submitted by LMP, as this excludes it. Ask Mr President, this Honourable Parliament is maintained by Mr T/315/03. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 128 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. T/315/5. Mr Sallai R. Benedek made an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 135 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. T/3115/4. Mr Staudt's proposal for an amendment was followed by a proposal by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 136 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3115/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes, 58 votes and 1 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3115/17. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the single proposal by 126 yeses, 69 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the right of citizens residing abroad who are resident in Hungary to exercise their voting rights H/2148. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by our better colleagues István Szávay, Gábor Vona and Gergely Farkas H/2148. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution by 60 votes, 126 votes and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Independent MEP Zsuzsanna Szelényi has proposed, with the support of the number of Members in the House Rules, that the Parliament decide on the H/2390 on the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi and other Members H/2390. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include 42 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour. In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Dear Parliament, We are taking a two-minute technical break in order to allow all our fellow Members who are leaving the Chamber now because of their urgent public duties to do so without delay. We will then continue our work with general debates. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] [[10.40]] With all due respect, I would like to ask all my fellow Members who must now leave the Chamber to do so as quickly as possible, because Secretary Kontra is eager to say his expo. [[There's a lot of noise. Several congressmen are leaving the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws necessary to establish a national passenger information system and to regulate the exchange of information within the framework of cooperation on criminal and/or police matters until closure follows. The submission is T/3404. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you can be divided into two main units. On the one hand, to clarify the arrangements for the exchange of information between EU Member States and, on the other hand, to amend the rules for the Passenger Information Unit. I'd like to introduce you to the first one. At the level of EU legislation, the so-called Prüm law sets out rules for international cooperation in the field of law enforcement and law enforcement, including the procedures for the exchange of information between national authorities. This single regulation promotes the effectiveness of the work carried out by the authorities of the EU Member States. The exchange of information between Member States shall include, inter alia, the comparison and exchange of data contained in the DNA database, fingerprint database in each country and national vehicle registers. These procedures will make a major contribution to the ex post identification of persons who may be associated with any action threatening the public security of the Member States. Prüm legislation was already transposed in 2010 and, in practice, cooperation is ongoing for all the types of data concerned. However, on the basis of practical experience, it is appropriate to lay down further detailed rules clarifying the procedures. Dear Parliament, Therefore, this bill lays down rules for the procedure for obtaining further data from persons identified as a result of a comparison of the content of national DNA databases and fingerprint databases. It shall also lay down the laws determining the role of the International Crime Cooperation Centre in this procedure. The amendment also extends the possibility of an international comparison of fingerprint data to the field of detection. As a result, it will be possible to compare fingerprints and palmprints obtained by law enforcement bodies with databases from other EU Member States in the future. This is a major step forward compared to the current legislation, which only allows for an international comparison of finger and palm prints in individual cases. This amendment also provides for the possibility of automatically comparing the information recorded in each Member State's database at specified intervals. Dear Parliament, Now I'd like to introduce the second part. With the financial support of the European Union, Hungary will establish its Passenger Data Information Unit and create the necessary operating conditions within a two-year project. In this context, the Organised Crime Coordination Centre was authorised from 1 January 2015 to analyse the data of passengers on flights arriving outside or departing from the Schengen borders. The main objective of this is to facilitate the detection and investigation of terrorist and organised crime offences and to combat efforts and activities that threaten national security. However, based on the experience gained so far, it has become clear that for the purposes of faster identification, it is necessary for the Centre to have access to certain records. Consequently, on the basis of this bill, the Organised Crime Coordination Centre may, in the future, request data on passenger registration data maintained by the police, the Schengen information system and the travel document register for identification purposes. Dear Parliament, It is also necessary to amend the current provision that the Centre receives passenger data only after the check-in. In view of the increasing terrorist threat, it is important that the data are available not only after the check-in but already 12 hours before. This new data transfer obligation is also included in this bill. Dear Parliament, The launch of the Passenger Data Information System will also significantly increase the security of Hungary and the European Union as a whole. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I am speaking to Mr Péter Agh of the Fidesz Group, who is the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-33	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The recent terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen and the crisis in the Middle East and Ukraine have once again put security at the top of the political agenda. Member States of the European Union, including Hungary, are committed to creating a safer Europe. At the request of the European Commission, the Ministry of Interior submitted its application in 2013, which aims to establish the Passenger Data Information Unit of Hungary. The Commission considered the tender successful and gave the project a grant of more than EUR 5 million covering 90 per cent of the total budget. The use of the Passenger Data Records, originally collected for commercial purposes by air carriers for law enforcement purposes, has already been envisaged at Union level by the Hague Programme for EU Cooperation in Justice and Home Affairs. The purpose of collecting passenger data is to prevent terrorism, serious crime and organised crime and to increase the effectiveness of the fight against them. Why is it important to amend cooperation and related laws? Based on the travel habits of those involved in organised crime and terrorism, certain patterns can be identified. [[10.50]] By comparing these samples with passenger data, operational information that is extremely useful can be obtained, perpetrators or acts in preparation can be detected, and even terrorist attacks in the air can be prevented. The management of passenger data for flights coming or leaving the Schengen area will improve the criminal prevention and detection work of European authorities and enhance the security of Hungary and the European Union. The establishment of the National Passenger Information Unit made it clear that the risk analysis carried out on the basis of the rules adopted in 2013 could not, on its own, detect suspicious persons. The necessary amendments will allow the Centre to receive prior passenger data from the police via individual requests for data for a successful risk analysis, thus enabling the identification of suspects to be carried out more effectively. Currently, these passenger data are used by the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Korea for law enforcement purposes, Russia, Japan, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Singapore have already implemented their relevant legislation or are currently being tested for such use. Such a system is already in place in the United Kingdom within the Union, but France, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands have also adopted the relevant legislation. Thus, there is a clear sense of commitment to cooperation, which eliminates suspects and enhances security. The PNR law adopted in 2013 entered into force in January this year, but some of its provisions need to be clarified in order to fully meet the objectives of the law. Small changes to domestic laws governing the subject need to be made in order to enable the exchange of information within the framework of criminal and police cooperation to comply with Community standards. Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, amendments are necessary for the efficient operation of the Passenger Data Information System, enabling the National Passenger Data Information Unit to analyse and evaluate the data received effectively and to comply with EU standards. Fidesz supports the necessary legislative amendments, because we believe they contribute to the security of Hungary and Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who is speaking from this platform. Congressman's on his way up. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On numerous occasions, we have made clear the position of the MSZP in principle on police and border police matters, that we support any proposal that strengthens the security of the Hungarian people, but in any case we will raise our voice when strengthening security is used as an excuse to cut civil liberties and to cement their own power. We will therefore also object to any bill that serves only the government's propaganda of demagogic xenophobicism, which fights non-existent immigration instead of strengthening the security of the Hungarian people. The bill before us contains to a large extent such completely unprofessional, timeless, propaganda steel provisions. In addition, this is a benign interpretation, as the expanded data processing authorisation may open the way for almost unlimited use of the data of passengers on flights. This is not only a criticism of the largest opposition party, but also the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information raised a lot of concerns about the draft law published on the government's website. Although some of the criticisms were eliminated in the bill submitted to Parliament, a number of serious data protection concerns persist. Such is the first surprising provision that in the future, the Organizational Crime Coordination Centre for air traffic data will also have access to so-called preliminary passenger data handled by the police. These preliminary passenger data are specifically used to carry out the police's border police tasks and cover a much narrower range of data than is available to the Organised Crime Coordination Centre anyway. Therefore, there are serious shortcomings if the success of the analytical assessment work really depends on access to the preliminary passenger data received from the police. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information drew attention to the possible explanation of this apparent contradiction in its opinion on the draft law. According to the current law, air passengers' data must be rendered unfit for identification after 30 days. However, this rule does not apply to so-called preliminary passenger data received from the police, so that using the data received from the police they will be able to continue to attach anonymised cabin data to specific persons. So basically, they're sneaking around legal guarantees. The approach to guarantee rules is well illustrated by the deadlines set out in the bill for handling the data received from the police. According to the main rule, these data must be deleted within 24 hours, but the following half sentence of the paragraph overwrites it already allows data processing to be completed by the time the analytic evaluation activity is completed. Of course, there is no reason for us to look into the legislative text that has been submitted, how long the analytical evaluation activity can last. Therefore, the rules on the anonymisation of air passenger data, adopted in 2013, can be set in parentheses. Of course, the proposal of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has also fallen to deaf ears that it should be laid down in the law that, simply as a result of the automatic processing of passenger data, no decision with adverse effects on anyone can be taken. As is well known, in the rule of law, the cornerstone of the constitutionality of data processing is its purpose. The State may collect data on its citizens or anyone else only for specific purposes and only to the extent strictly necessary to achieve the objective. The law provides for the collection of very large amounts of data for flight passengers, from identity data to billing information, to information on cabin baggage, but also data on travel conditions. In this case, therefore, it is of particular importance to what use this unlimited amount of information can be made. In this respect, however, the bill broadens the scope of the authorities' discretion and makes the processing almost untied. According to the current legislation, the purpose of receiving and managing passenger data is to facilitate the detection and investigation of organised crime and to prevent attempts and activities that threaten national security. That's okay. This purpose of data management is extended by the bill to three elements: firstly, terrorism-related crimes, and then - see wonder - to facilitate the criminal activities committed by organised criminal groups and criminal organisations in the field of illegal migration, and to prevent and prevent illegal migration itself. At first hearing, these objectives may seem logical and eligible, but we will have an interesting result if we do a more thorough analysis. First of all, who would not support, for example, the collection of data by authorities in order to prevent terrorist offences? However, the need for an amendment is immediately questionable if we look at what kind of crime passenger data can currently be used to detect. Even under the law in force, all offences related to terrorism fall within this area. This includes, among other things, trafficking in human beings, the capture of aircraft, the abuse of firearms or ammunition, the financing of terrorism, and we could continue to do so for a long time. A specific crime scene could only be complemented by a crime of smuggling. But why does the bill name terrorism separately? The answer should be found in the other new purpose of data processing. The real new element is the prevention of illegal immigration. They want terrorism and the fight against illegal migration to be reflected in the bill at the same time. This is to confirm Viktor Orbán's outrageous statement in Paris, in which terrorism and immigration were washed together. I ask my fellow Members: is it really realistic that illegal border crossings will arrive in our country on expensive international flights? Do you really think that smugglers are going to buy their customers tickets to flights to Budapest? Let's face it, for all reasonable people, it is clear that information on illegal migration is hardly available from the analysis of passenger data on flights. [[11.00]] Thus, the extension of data processing purposes is completely unreasonable, unnecessary, and makes data processing almost uncoordinated. Obviously, it is no coincidence that, in the draft directive that the European Parliament has just discussed, it would be possible to process passenger data only in order to detect and investigate serious crime. There is no mention of the assessment of illegal migration risks in the Brussels proposal, although, believe me, my fellow Members, there are far more immigrants in Western Europe than in our country. A person who does not know the history may not understand why the government of the country to which they are not emigrating comes up with this proposal, but, on the contrary, a mass emigration. However, those who read about Viktor Orbán's outbursts against immigrants saw Rogán's press conference at Antal Keleti station, they understand exactly the explanation of everything. The unviable, unprofessional provisions on migration are another tool for Fidesz's campaign against immigrants. It is intended to demonstrate that Fidesz will act with all means against the new bogeyman, the demoralizing immigration. If the opposition protests against all of this, driven by its conscience and political convictions, then at least they can be branded traitors. It is better that the EU directive, which is being prepared, does not allow such processing, because at least once again it is possible to fight freedom against Brussels. This hack campaign best proves how much Fidesz despises Hungarian people. They assume that Hungarian people do not see the reality, they do not see that people do not emigrate to this country, which resembles increasingly Asian dictatorships. They think it is not obvious that almost all Hungarian families have experienced what it is like when relatives and friends leave Hungary. However, Fidesz is seriously wrong this time. In Újpesten and last time in Veszprém, the voters have already sent you a clear message. They told me that they could see through unscrupulous demagoguery, and that they would no longer tolerate it. It's time for you to hear the voices of your constituents. It is time to work to strengthen Hungary's growth and security in place of the eternal war of freedom. If they do, they'll find a partner here in Parliament. For example, proposals that actually strengthen the safety of Hungarian people can be ideally suited for the adoption by consensus of the Parliament. For example, who would argue that the spectacular development of air transport not only promotes tourism and trade but also provides more room for manoeuvre for cross-border organised crime and international terrorism as a negative impact? Who would dispute the need to take effective measures to address these challenges? Who in this House would not know that this is why many countries around the world are considering allowing the collection and handling of cabin data for crime prevention purposes? Even in the autumn of 2013, we were not shut down from the constructive discussion of the proposals on this issue. We have tabled several amendments, which, however, have not been supported, in accordance with their bad habits, by the majority of the governments of even two thirds of the time. Here I would point out that a year and a half later, one of our proposals for such an amendment comes back in this bill. Too bad they didn't see it until later. We were right. As at the time, we are still open to dialogue and will continue to support efforts to reduce the safety risks posed by aviation. However, we cannot waive the requirement to strike a balance between the growing need for information from law enforcement agencies and the protection of citizens' personal data. We will continue to strongly protest when they intend to use the amendment of law enforcement and border police laws not to increase the security of the Hungarian people, but to enforce their own political interests or just as simple propaganda. In addition, we will present a number of amendments, including NAIH's objections. The MSZP makes the support of the law conditional on the support of the proposed amendments. This is unacceptable in this form. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-03-03-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Mátyás Firtl. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-37	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Parliament, After the Tamás Harangozó before me, after all, I must say that the law enforcement and border law enforcement bodies, measures, serve exactly the purpose set out in the draft text before us. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, law enforcement, security, security policy, a new approach, but we have a proposal for national security. And not only because we have recently faced the terrorist attacks in Paris, Copenhagen, but also precisely because of what Tamás Harangozó has started to deal with earlier, the danger of immigrants with the masses of Hungary and, as he said, there is no danger at all. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Flying.]] In my opinion, and in the view of the Christian Democratic People's Party, my honourable fellow Member, if immigrants are able to show up unchecked in this country with a large mass, it does not matter what kind of immigrants, my honourable fellow Member, mean that they cannot be properly regulated in a secure manner without any screening and much more stringent consideration. After all, you know very well that if we do not strictly regulate their stay here, we will be prosecuted in Europe. At the request of the European Commission, the Ministry of Interior submitted its application in 2013, as has already been said here, in order to establish Hungary's Passenger Data Information Unit. It is also obvious to you that the Commission has considered the tender successful and has given us a budget of more than EUR 5 million, which otherwise covers 90% of the costs. The use of the Passenger Name Record originally collected by air carriers for commercial purposes for law enforcement purposes is already foreseen at EU level under the Hague Programme for EU Cooperation in Justice and Home Affairs. The purpose of collecting passenger data is to prevent, and combat, terrorism, serious crime and organised crime. Here, too, I would stress that the aim is to increase efficiency, to promote it. Why is this cooperation important, the amendment of the laws related to it? Based on the travel habits of those involved in organised crime and terrorism, certain patterns can be identified. By comparing these samples with passenger data, it is very useful and operational information that can be obtained, the perpetrators, the actions in preparation and even the terrorist attacks in the air can be prevented. The management of passenger data for flights coming or going outside the Schengen area will improve the European authority's criminal prevention and detection work and increase the security of Hungary and the Union. The establishment of the National Passenger Information Unit made it clear that the risk analysis carried out on the basis of the rules adopted in 2013 could not, on its own, detect suspicious persons. The necessary amendments will allow the Centre to receive prior passenger data and identify suspicious persons on the basis of a specific request from the police for a successful risk analysis. At present, in a number of countries, I mention only a few, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the United States, Sweden, Belgium, the adoption of these laws and the possibility of law enforcement there. Thus, it is clear that the commitment to cooperate must be sought, which eliminates suspicious persons and enhances security, creating the possibility of, of course, bringing about a European-level cooperation.In 2013, PNR law was adopted, which entered into force in January this year, but some of its provisions must be clarified in order to fully meet the objectives of the law. Small changes to domestic laws governing the subject need to be made in order to ensure that the exchange of information in the framework of cooperation on criminal and/or police matters complies with Community standards. Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, I can say that amendments are necessary for the efficient operation of the Passenger Data Information System, which enables the National Passenger Information Unit to analyse and evaluate the data received effectively and to comply with EU standards. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this amendment, and I ask you to support it. Once again, when we talk about immigration, we do not want to ban immigrants from this country who comply with the Geneva Convention or Dublin III. We are indeed trying to create a barrier for economic refugees. Thank you very much for your attention. [[11.10]]
u2015-03-03-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Mirkóczki, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a very brief description of Jobbik's position. An important proposal is certainly a priority in terms of its objectives, on the basis of the draft legislation before us, but I would also say that the effectiveness and practicality of this will clearly appear in practice, how effective it will be, how effective it will be, how it will serve the original goals and how it will fulfill the hopes it has been given, because here, on the pro-government side, we have heard only how effective it is, how practical and how important it will make changes in the future. We see less of this specifically in relation to illegal migration or terrorism, and we therefore have some concerns. If the aim is to reduce illegal migration and to act hard against it - let us say, more effectively or more effectively - this proposal will not remedy it, this proposal will not reduce it. After all, illegal migrants hardly arrive on airplanes, just as it is presumed that terrorists will not necessarily choose airplanes. If we want security at our borders, I will continue to recommend the many, many years of Jobbik's proposal, which would essentially restore the old state, so that at least at our Schengen borders we can be border guards again. We are saying this not only to say something that the government has not done, but you know it very well, regardless of whether we are not talking about it, if we look at those Member States of the European Union that have any Schengen border, there is no border guard in Hungary alone, and I think that it says more than anything else, more than anything else. And I cannot believe that outside Hungary, Member States of the European Union with Schengen borders would be stupid or incompetent by maintaining border guards alongside all law enforcement and law enforcement bodies. Why this would be important: the clear line that border police are inside the police is trying to handle the unmanageable illegal migrating stream, but what we need to see is that it is not normal that field guards, vigilantes and civil government workers are now carrying out the tasks - with a little exaggeration - that the non-existent border guards or border police should do. Because, unlike my fellow Member of the Bell, let us not distort reality: illegal migration has grown to amazing proportions. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó: We are talking about flying data traffic!]] And that will continue to be the case. And by just passing through us, we're not gonna solve it, because in the middle of the summer, there's gonna be dumping when Germany sends back 99 percent, so we're really gonna have to do something about that. What is of any concern on the basis of this proposal and what needs to be pointed out is, in particular, a rubber rule for analytical evaluation activities, in our view. So this is not clear about who's data, how long and exactly who can handle it and for what purpose. Because if we accept the basic principle that the data of persons who do not necessarily have terrorist or criminal history on aircraft are also assessed and analysed, then this raises very serious problems and can give rise to very serious abuses. So I would ask the Secretary of State that if, in addition to the general justification for this, he could give more details or deny them that this is not a rubber rule, and that all the concerns here can be dissipated by the fact that there is no abuse of these data, it would certainly be a good thing. But what we can see from this proposal is that they are gaining so much information here, and not necessarily with a clear reason, because this is an analytical evaluation activity that can cover a lot of things. What are we analysing for what purpose? Okay, obviously you have said that this is primarily about terrorism, but we also see from the daily examples that this does not necessarily apply to aircraft passengers, or it does not necessarily have to be done there, just as I believe that in terms of organised crime, if we look at Hungary's geopolitical situation, and in which area the most serious, organised crime-related activity is taking place, it will not really affect the aircraft. Therefore, in this respect, I consider it justified to extend information as much as is allowed in this proposal. If we can clarify or clarify this with the various amendments, or if there are guarantees that simple citizens, who cannot in any way be linked to any crime or suspicion, cannot be so assessed or analysed, Jobbik will consider the proposal to be eligible, but I will say again that migration and terrorism in Hungary will not be solved with this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. As they are not from the LMP Group, there is no way to speak. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply now has the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Now we have two-minute comments, if any. [[There's no candidate.]] He's not here either. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I would like to take the floor first from the MSZP Group to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-03-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After the adoption of the law governing the operation of the PNR system, the government had more than a year to prepare itself for the implementation of this law. It is worth noting here that the law adopted by Parliament for the successful implementation of the PNR system project entered into force on 1 January 2015 and, in light of this, it is shocking that immediately after the sharp operation of the system, the Ministry of Interior itself declares the inadequacy of the legislation. From this we can clearly conclude that this is once again a clear sign of the government's total incompetence, and it is also a very good indicator of the extent to which the central administration has been transformed and the quality of legislation has been reduced. The bill does not reveal what the real purpose of Fidesz is. Unfortunately, we have gotten used to this in recent years, but I think that this is a particular issue - besides many others - that is actually about the safety of Hungarian people. It is therefore unbelievable that party political goals can be found in this too. We can say with great certainty - as my fellow Member mentioned in his speech to the lead speaker - that the masses of illegal migrants arrive on non-international flights, and that, by the way, smugglers are not likely to bring their customers to Hungary on flights. I find it amazing that the issue of economic immigration has come up again here in the speech of my pro-government fellow Member. We see that Fidesz is fond of creating new concepts for political purposes, or is trying to give existing concepts a completely different content for party policy purposes. If we are talking about economic immigration, I do not know what they would say - by the way, the Prime Minister himself praised the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who left Hungary; they left because they could not make a living in Hungary - if, for example, in England they joined the Hungarians who went there to live. [[Intercoms: That's the way it is!]] And that's what they'd call economic immigrants. [[11.20]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that they also travel by plane to work there and send the money home to their very difficult families. I hope, sooner or later, that when a government change takes place, they can be called home and created. You will never be able to create such conditions. But then when they come home, they'll probably come home by plane. So I find this kind of argument amazing and the fact that economic immigrants are regularly mixed up in the context of illegal migration and that these concepts are shattered. In terms of data management, it is of great concern that confidence in the government has been shaken in several cases at both international and domestic level. I do not think that there is such a level of public confidence that we can be sure, otherwise, and that there would be adequate guarantees for more and more data processing, and this is particularly worrying in the light of such authorisation, that they were able to vote on Paks exactly an hour ago to prevent access to any information. We are talking about fully personalised, company-specific legislation tailored to government interests. So in view of this, I am concerned about this part. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member László Kiss of the MSZP Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You can keep track of what I've telephoned / and when, why, to whom. / They write in files what I dreamed of / and who understands it. / And I don't know when there's gonna be enough reason to pre-do that card, which is a violation of my right. It is true that eighty years ago, in November, Attila József wrote these lines, and perhaps these lines also highlight the concerns that can be expressed about such proposals. In general, it can be said that every state has the right to defend itself and its citizens, especially if terrorism is present in the world to the extent that it is happening today. Thus, it is necessary to establish laws that establish the protection of countries, establish the basis for protecting their own citizens or those who reside in the country. In this sense, therefore, I myself accept every proposal in this direction with understanding. However, if you look at the details, the situation is changing a bit. On the one hand, as my fellow Members rightly stated to me, it is odd to muffle this proposal a little with the issue of economic immigration, illegal immigration, but I understand that the communication team has given you the advice that this is the way to do it now, because it is the basis for this argument. Indeed, with my soul's eyes, I do not see thousands of illegal immigrants buying or making them buy expensive airline tickets, and these planes come into the Hungarian airspace in long rows. So obviously we know this is a bluff. Just as it is a bluff that such legislation must be put in place in relation to Hungary's security. There must be a proportion of how we keep records of data, of data about our citizens and other people, and that the state keeps records only and only data that it can properly evaluate and manage and, on the other hand, that is without prejudice to citizens. We believe that this law in its present form is unnecessary. It is not necessary, because it obviously does not serve the objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum, and we think that we generally need rules that have a precision impact on the directions that you have formulated. The problem is that, while the fight against terrorism is important, I have no quarrel with anyone in this House, while we believe that this proposal is not for this fight, it is not for the country to defend itself properly against terrorism. That's the biggest problem. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Károly Kontra: Yes, thank you, Mr President, I would like to reply.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Péter Ágh for his support for this proposal, in which the Fidesz fraction expressed its support, and Mr Mátyás Firtl's statement of support on behalf of the KDNP fraction. These two statements provide the guarantee that this very important proposal will be given a majority and will serve security in the interests of the Hungarian people, Hungary and the European Union. What means by Mr Tamás Harangozó's comment, he used very serious words that the proposal serves unprofessional, timeless, propaganda steels, and slylyly try to circumvent the data protection rules - I reject them. I would like to say to the Member that the proposal is in line with the draft EU directive: there is ambition everywhere, Mr President, in this tabled proposal. These amendments are necessary to ensure that the Passenger Data Information System is operational and to meet the requirements that we have agreed with the EU, resulting in EUR 5.5 million in support from other 13 EU countries and developing similar systems. We take these results that we receive into account when building the Hungarian system, their experiences and solutions. As regards your findings on illegal migration, I disagree with them. I would also like to emphasise here that criminal groups organised for illegal migration are heavily built on it, and it is important to prevent any threat to terrorism. I think it is important that we agree on this. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó: This is the law in force.]] As far as the data is concerned, the preliminary data will be deleted 24 hours after receipt, and I would like to say this, which you have challenged or raised. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó: Except for the end of the evaluation-analysis work.]] I would also like to respond to the comments of Mr Adam Mirkóczki. I would also like to confirm here that there is a border guard in Hungary; the Hungarian police carry out border surveillance tasks and border police tasks. Such a solution is, by the way, in several countries of the Union. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Only there is no Schengen border. Adam Mirkóczki: That's not what I was talking about.]] I believe that the police personnel are doing an excellent job in this regard. I would also like to thank the border police. What I would like to emphasise here, too, is that the main objective is to combat terrorism and organised crime, this proposal serves and must also be seen that organised crime is behind illegal migration, trying to take advantage of this social problem. I would also like to say that all travelers are not systematically checked. Travel habits are also examined, which allows the unit to process the booking data of the passengers at risk. We stress that the objective is always met by the legislator's objective. With regard to the comments made by Congresswoman Márta Demeter, I would like to draw attention to the fact that she does not confuse the activities of European Union citizens in the economic area, when they are living within the European Union, whether in the United Kingdom or in other EU countries. This is not illegal migration. You are deliberately blurring these two concepts together and trying to apply definitions that are completely unfounded. I'm asking you not to do this. I would like to say that the project will last until 2016. Meanwhile, there are new experiences and practices at international level, which the legislator is trying to respond to. I think it is less dangerous to bring the proposal here after the entry into force of 1 January 2015 and try to respond to the potential threats that have been identified in the meantime than to have one case that would be committed by organised criminals or terrorists. I would also ask you to reconsider this proposal. [[11.30]] The test plant will start from 1 May 2015 and the system will be active as of 1 May 2016. We trust that these new rules also serve the safety of Hungary, the European Union, the Hungarian people and the citizens of the EU. I would also like to say, in response to both the contributions from the MSZP and the better, that in the parliamentary debate it is possible to submit amendments to the points with which you do not agree. That's what I urge you to do. I hope that public security is the area where the greatest support for these proposals can be obtained. I ask the MSZP representatives to try to do everything in opposition at least now, above the political interests of the day, in order to help the security of Hungarian people and European Union citizens, if this has not been achieved in the government between 2002 and 2010. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the contributions of the speakers representing the factions. I trust that this proposal will find support here in Parliament, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday 5 March at 4 p.m. A general debate on the bill on the survey of the population on the basis of a sample of personal, family and housing conditions in 2016 will follow until closure. The submission was made in T/3410. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the House Committee's decision last week, the presentation will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Changes in social processes require reliable, timely data to be available at national and territorial level to prepare and measure the impact of policy decisions. The most comprehensive picture of the state of Hungarian society is the census data, whose intensive users are scientists, analysts, media and citizens' most diverse organisations, apart from central and local decision makers. The latest census in 2011 reflects five years earlier and the next census is due in 2021. According to the practice established in the last five decades, the Central Statistical Office is implementing a microcensus in order to provide the necessary data between the two censuses. We propose that this be done in the autumn of 2016. In terms of its microcensor program, it is a small census covering not the population as a whole, but a smaller sample. Since 1963 such a survey has been carried out regularly, usually at 10-year intervals in Hungary. The last one was carried out by KSH in 2005. The former microcensions basically gave national estimates, the lowest territorial level was the county. In order to ensure that the main data are available for the current smallest regional planning units, it is necessary to apply a sample of 10 per cent of the housing and population. The microcensor also includes personal data, which must be answered by the affected part of the population, so that a legal authorisation is required to carry out the survey. This bill, which sets out the conditions for the microcension to be held in October 2016, serves this purpose. The bill provides for data reporting agents, the subject of the survey and the way in which it is implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, The retention of microcensions is justified because its results serve as a basis for preparing social, economic and policy decisions, and in particular help to shape policy on land development, housing, family, nationalities, social situation and employment. In order to provide current data on the relevant characteristics of as many social areas as possible for the microcensus incorporating basic features, current-themed additional recordings are linked to which the response is voluntary. The topics of additional recordings are international migration, health status, social stratification, prestige of occupations, subjective well-being. I suppose I do not have to explain to my fellow Members why these are important issues, even in the preparation of political decision-making. The bill, which lies before you, states that the data collected can only be used for statistical purposes. The latter condition ensures that the anonymous unidentifiable data of reporting agents cannot be disclosed in a reidentifiable manner and may not be used for other administrative purposes. The bill specifies the time of the survey, the range of reporting agents and the data circuits covered by the microcensor's programme. In order to measure the changes that have taken place since 2011, the basic programme of the microcensor follows, for certain data circles it changes the issues of the 2011 census according to current needs. The list of topics by law is a guarantee for citizens that they can only be required to respond in the context of the microcensorship in the circle listed in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, Data collection shall include the most basic data on persons, such as gender, date of birth, nationality, residence, legal marital status, educational attainment, economic activity, household and family characteristics. Data users' needs justify the inclusion of data on nationality, mother tongue and the language spoken in the family, as well as health status and disability in the data circles to be compiled from the so-called special data. The provision of data is voluntary for requests for specific data, as I have already mentioned. The data collected during the microcensor give a comprehensive picture of the number of housing stock in Hungary, its size composition, the quality, equipment and utility characteristics, and ownership conditions. Under the authority of the Act, the Government will subsequently regulate the detailed data content of the microcensor's data circuits, the rules for data collection preparation, data reporting and the administrative transfer of data related to microcensorship. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the proposal before us with your votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Demeter. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In the general debate on the bill before us, I would like to say in just a few words to the speaker before me, and also to emphasise - and, of course, to strengthen what the Secretary of State has said - why it is essential to support this proposal. Like the rest of the world, censuses are recorded in the 19th century. It's been going on since the middle of the century. For the first time in Hungary, a modern census took place in 1870. Since then, every ten years we have assessed the personal, family and housing conditions of the entire population. The last census was held in 2011. However, due to the acceleration of economic and social events, the data collected during the census will become obsolete within a relatively short period of time, and it has become particularly important to update and update such statistical data on an appropriate basis. [[11.40]] Since the 1960s, international statistics have introduced small sampling censuses, called microcensions, to be held at about half-time between the ten-yearly censuses. Since then, we have kept such small censuses in Hungary. The first one took place in 1963, the latest microcensus was implemented by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office in 2005. Microcensions do not extend to the population as a whole, but to a smaller sample. It gives a comprehensive picture of changes in living conditions, demographic, educational and occupational characteristics, economic activity and housing. The bill submitted shows a change compared to the previous small censuses to the extent that so far, the census has only given national estimates and the lowest territorial level was the county. In order to ensure that the main data are available for the current smallest regional planning units, it is necessary to apply a sample of 10 per cent of the housing and population. The rules for the recording and processing of data, as well as the implementation of it, are ensured by the provisions of several laws, which include requirements and guarantees for the protection of data and other circumstances relevant to the collection of data. The survey shall be carried out between 1 October 2016 and 31 October 2016 and the additional list of persons and apartments left out of the survey shall be completed by 8 November 2016. The proposal sets out the range of reporting agents and includes the categories of data covered by the microcensor's programme. The list of topics by law guarantees citizens that only the circle listed in the law can be required to respond in the course of the census. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think it is essential to draw attention to the fact that, like the 2011 census, the proposal once again provides an opportunity for microcensus to be implemented by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office in combination with the counter-security interview method. In all cases, the method of reporting is chosen by the person responsible for providing the information, which serves both the comfort of the reporting agent and reduces the reporting burden. In order to achieve the same objective, the Office intends to apply a short questionnaire, which can be easily and with little time. My fellow Members, therefore, there is no doubt that, in line with previous practice, changes in social processes require the implementation of a small census in order to provide reliable, timely data to prepare and measure the effects of decisions. With the adoption of this proposal, it will once again be possible to learn about the changes in the composition and living conditions of society that have occurred over the past years. In view of all this, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-03-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-03-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The first complete census in Hungary II. It was ordered by Joseph, executed between 1784 and 1787, 231 years ago. The series of official censuses began in Hungary in January 1870. Since then, a census has been held in Hungary approximately every ten years. The censuses are conducted by KSH, the Central Statistical Office. Ten years pass between censuses, which has been said before me, and as time passes, the data becomes inaccurate. This makes economic and administrative planning and scientific research difficult, as the available data no longer accurately describe the demographic and other conditions of Hungary. To correct this, a small census called microcensus, which represents the composition of the population in a number of ways, but only for a small part or a few percent of it, will be made. In Hungary, 2011 was the first census where questionnaires could be submitted via the Internet. The operation cost HUF 19 billion. According to criticisms, as far as this census is concerned, the questionnaires asked for privacy and business data in such detail that ex post unidentifiability could not be guaranteed. During the census, personal, family and first names should not be included in the questionnaire. The provision of data is mandatory, but also mandatory, with the exception of the indication of national and ethnic minorities, mother tongue, religion, long-term illness, disability. The data collected during the census shall be used for statistical purposes only and no documents shall be required for the census. The census is carried out by combining the electronic and paper-based self-filling method and the interview method. The census, I said, is carried out by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, and I would also like to say here that the Hungarian Central Statistical Office is a professionally independent national organisation under the supervision of the government, whose main function is to collect, process and publish certain economic and social data. The Office provides data to Parliament, public administration bodies, local governments, scientific life, economic organizations, the population and communications bodies. In 1867 the Ministry of Agriculture, Industry and Trade formed a statistical department with five members. At the beginning, the renowned economist of the age, Charles the East, was appointed. This event is considered to be the birth of the official statistical service. After the successful organization of the first Hungarian census, Károly Keleti made the department an independent office. In the first years, there was a struggle with the indifference of reporting agents, the lack of statistical sense. XXV of 1874 Law 1 on the organisation of statistical matters provided for the possibility of sanctioning the failure to provide mandatory statistical information. The 1880 census was already conducted on the basis of an individual card system. At the same time, the development of statistics on trade in goods began. Károly Keleti, during his extensive two decades-long board of directors, has laid the foundations for official statistics in Hungary and has established international relations with the Office. They'll understand why I read this. [[11.50]] I would like to tell you what the Hungarian Socialist Party has to say about the law. According to the justification, changes in social processes require reliable, timely data to be available to prepare decisions and measure their impact. The data of the last census in 2011 reflect five years earlier, and the next census is due in 2021, as has been said before. According to the practice established in the last five decades, the Central Statistical Office is implementing a microcensus in order to provide the necessary data between the two censuses. Since 1963, this survey has been carried out regularly, usually at 10-year intervals, during the mid-term period between two censuses. Undoubtedly, most recently CXXI of 2004 on the 2005 survey of population personal, family and housing conditions on the basis of a representative sample. The law provided for such microcensions. At that time, based on the midnight situation between 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2005, a census was carried out between 1 April 2005 and 21 April 2005 on the personal, family and housing conditions of the population, which covered only 2% of the population. The data rings are essentially the same as the current proposal, but there are two important differences. People are now being asked about their health and disability, which has not been before. In addition, one part of the justification is interesting, according to which Hungarian citizens residing abroad should also be listed, regardless of whether they are registered or not registered in the given apartment. This is important, as I quoted above, because the aim is to obtain reliable and timely data to prepare and measure the effects of decisions. The question is what decisions are being made by the government, which requires, for example, data on health, disability. Do you want to assess the effects of economic policy in Orbán by asking how many people from the apartment in question have temporarily gone abroad? The data of the 2011 census have not been evaluated by KSH since the censuses, which is 17 months. As early as 2011, the decline in population was marked by the fact that almost a third of the nearly 300,000 people missing were emigrants compared to the 2001 census. Zsolt Németh, Deputy Chairman of the KSH Census at that time, in 2011, said that the process seemed marked and unstoppable. We also learned then that the exact determination of the immigrant population, i.e. the number of people who have lived here in our country for only one or two generations, is significantly difficult because many of them live in apartments. For example, despite the fact that KSH also translated the questionnaire into Chinese, the 6770 Chinese figures appear to be a little small. It is interesting that, unlike social public opinion, the Russians are the largest migrant community in Hungary, with 13 337 people. Now, the KSH is going to start again, see if it can better base the government's decisions. It can only be hoped that it will not do so in autumn 2014 when it deliberately did not publish poverty data. I am sure you will remember, fellow Members, it became rather scandalous that in September KSH should have published poverty figures in Hungary. First, it was argued that the office of the HCSO was in need of resources and that they could not do so, and then, on multiple requests, it was published in December, when it was discovered that these data had been sent to the European Union for a long time, because Eurostat is working on these data. It seems that KSH has earned the right to receive funds for the census by 2016. The reason I told you in my introduction is that KSH's task is that it is written there that KSH is an organization independent of government, but in recent years we have found that the office of the KSH does not really function as it should. It can no longer be said that it would be completely independent of the government in question. We're living in an era of silence, falsifying, or at least cosmetic statistics. Here, I'd like to go back to the birth data. In 2015, birth data will be prepared in such a way that not only children born in Hungary are included in the statistical data, but also children born in England, Germany and Austria are included in the statistical data. So I've asked KSH and EMMI several times whether they know any data about who really are children born in Hungary and who are the children who are born, say, as children of economic emigrants, outside, in other countries. We were unable to get a unified response, the EMMI also provided other data and the Statistical Office. Since it is not excluded that this bill would be used to further sound the lie slogan of Hungary, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the bill. I'd like to comment on one more piece of data here. The employment data also continuously takes into account Hungarian citizens working abroad. So that's why I'm personally saying that the office of the KSH is no longer independent of the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-53	Mr President, Dear House, I am not surprised that it is my turn to say this, but I am a little disappointed that the Christian Democratic People's Party has not even bothered to set up a leading speaker on the very important subject which, by the way, is in contact with Hungary's population situation, more precisely, as a basis for the interventions to be taken there. It is quite simply a facial toaster that there is a parliamentary faction that does not consider it important to express itself on this particularly important subject. I also have to say that the traditional census and the microcensus - which I can basically support, because if it only enriches the common storehouse with three kinds of important data, it is possible to go forward with it - is out of fashion. In developed countries, this form is becoming less and less used, more precisely, where it is kept, but replaced or supplemented by alternative means, and I would not consider this addition to be rejected. In these countries, they have a view of society by comparing the databases that have been kept, and sooner or later they should also arrive in Hungary, working from other data sources, not only in five-year cycles, so every ten years a census and five-year interruptions could draw very important conclusions through a microcension, but rather on the basis of more tangible data. What do I mean? György Németh, sociologist and economist, has an excellent proposal circulating not only in the web space, but also the pro-government politicians know it very well. In his view, the personal income tax return of children's children would be an excellent way to obtain a full picture of one of the most important social groups, namely families with children, because, based on a comparison of these statements, if not their employment situation, but their income situation, which is virtually the same, or at least full conclusions can be drawn from it. If, for example, it were possible to compare the databases of family tax relief recipients and family benefit recipients, then we would find out where the incomeless people are, how many people are, what distribution they are in Hungary. This could draw conclusions on how to change their situation. So as long as the government is also throwing money into so-called integration funds from domestic budgetary resources, European Union funds, and very often, let's face it, it would be possible here to get a full picture of where, on what basis, budget resources should be allocated and where it should not be taken from them, because this is also a very important issue. [[12.00]] It can be seen that if we compared only the relevant part of the sja declarations and did not touch any secret data here, then, compared to the microcensus, on the one hand, this would not cost anything compared to this almost 20 billion-dollar item, on the other hand, we could gain an annual comparison, with much more accurate data, with a much more realistic picture, but interestingly, in government thinking so far, this has not been the case. I very much hope that the national secretary of state will not try to bring this whole thing down with a close word, that what the opposition is saying is stupid, but that, in a meaningful response, there will be a constructive debate that will provide an answer to whether the government is willing to accept the idea of, say, complementing this whole picture by an annual comparison of SAI declarations, so that it can allocate budget resources more effectively itself. It would also be possible, so once again, if, in my view, an annual comparison were to take place, that Parliament could discuss every year the report on the income situation of families raising children, which could otherwise be prepared by the tax authority or the Hungarian Treasury, or by the two together. So we would have a specialized material that could be worked on at government, parliamentary level. At the moment, you distribute budget resources, shape social policy, shape the aid system, shape the public works system, shape the conditions of the world of work by having no idea of these data, or have only relevant items. In this way, it is irresponsible to use Hungary's public money, as I claim. You can see that, once again, if the tax authority and the Hungarian Treasury were to make this annual comparison, we could see family benefits from one side and the holders of family allowances from the other. A number of forms of abuse could also be discovered, not least, but it is quite certain that the Hungarian government could possess extremely valuable data, the analysis of which could underpin not only excellent new measures, but I will give you an example: the introduction of a social card, which Jobbik has been saying for years, could provide a wonderful basis for seeing in which region, what multiplier effect, what results we could introduce a similar model. At the moment, this is a question of faith in Parliament, and there have been previous debates of faith, because the necessary series of data were not at your disposal because they did not measure them, they did not search this area. And you can also see that personal data is also covered by the microcensor we're talking about. To do that, we need the law or the bill that we're discussing right now. A more detailed assessment of housing conditions would be inevitable here. You can see that it's very good to take this down to the walking level, but the main question is what does the government do with the data. So if we look at housing conditions in more detail, we should, if appropriate, get closer to, say, the question of why 500 thousand properties are empty in Hungary, while the second reason for emigration between Hungarian young people and middle-aged people is why the housing situation is unsolved. So I just can't imagine these two not being able to meet somehow. And yet what we see is that we may not be sure that the data series that we gain from this whole research system is going deep enough, and we should, therefore, be able to figure out how much of that 500 thousand vacant properties could be involved in the Hungarian bloodstream, and we should also explore whether a comprehensive, state-based home creation and rental program can be based on this data set. I say yes, because it can be seen that if a young person in Hungary today examines whether the average salary according to the KSH or his specific salary - because the two are far from the same - can get a single home within how many years when he can buy an apartment, if possible in the agglomeration of the capital, or in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, the final result will be the same: he will be able to calculate over 10-15 years of age even if he can set aside. So you can see that today a Hungarian youth does not have a realistic chance in Hungary, whether with socopol or semi-socicol, to buy real estate on its own, from its salary on the market, and to start his own life. Therefore, by deepening the depth of surveys and clarifying research data, it would be possible to develop a system that will start in two directions. On the one hand, with the involvement of Hungarian entrepreneurs, with the central purchasing price advantages resulting from economies of scale, a housing system should be developed, which also raises new properties and rural dust, but the 500 thousand empty ones should also be brought back into circulation as much as possible. At the same time, measurements and data are needed to start this. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Another very, very important area is emigration. At the moment, the government will have an incredibly distorted outcome in relation to housing data if it wishes to research based on its current ideas, because many people simply do not announce, they do not enter the office, that we are emigrating from Hungary now, and that we are going to work in the slaughterhouse in the Netherlands for two or three years, say, with two degrees. A lot of people do not do this, but they may appear in the sample you measured as the citizens who currently reside in Hungary, who use health services here, and who may be taxing here. After all, let us not forget those who can only get employment black, and they do not want to work black, but they may not be announced in Western Europe. The other very important issue is immigration, which has already been said. Indeed, in Hungary there are not a few thousand and not a few tens of thousands of foreign immigrants who are not sure if they are first generation, it was a very accurate view. But we must also say that their dynamics are continuous, annual, but within five years it is certain that their numbers and other changes could also form part of a very important measurable series of data, but not in such a superficial way as the government plans. What is, however, the most important issue, the third of my points, but I really think that is the most important, is the precise measurement of the demographic standard deviation. Now, in recent weeks, such joyful data has come to light, I don't know how public it is, but it's already been purged in professional circles and forums, which meant that in Hungary, every mother, on average, 1.3 children have been born in the last few years about, and now it's starting to move towards 1.4. Which, I say, is joyful, very, very important, is a statistical change - but let's look behind. Let's just say that the minimum, so in order to stay on the level, 9 million 800 thousand, the same amount, would need 2.2 children per family. This is horribly, horribly far away not only from this government, but also from its predecessors. So let's not just pin this on the current government. But it doesn't change the situation, nor does it change the fact that, despite every effort, the demographic collapse is on our necks, and we're at the moment after the last to reverse it. But if you are now starting to distort statistics - and not just you and then also the KSH - with children born abroad, i.e. those who emigrated from Hungary for economic reasons and who no longer have children here count the offspring of those who are born alive, then we are again concerned who will be responsible for this statistical shift. If in this sample, let us assume, say, that the children born abroad will be included in an increase of five thousand a year, then, mister, even if we assume only a few thousand of the births among Hungarians abroad, and why not assume so much, then the fall in Hungary can be expected to continue. And the statistics won't show that, because they're distorting it, and you're letting it be distorted. So in a rather amazing way, I am not saying that nothing has been done in this area, because in the spirit of fairness it must be stated that the family tax relief scheme proposed by Jobbik in 2010, even if only a third of it is able to use it in its entirety, has caused some relief in the case of families, but it can be seen that it has not been able to move forward the number of living births. So there is also a need for other measures, because Hungarian women, women and mothers will not only have more children after financial facilitations, but also need predictability, security and labour market facilitations. And once again, the key area is home creation. After all, if the warmth of the home is not felt, the availability of the home is not predictable, then you can give us all the family tax breaks! So you can see that numbers are stubborn things, even if they are distorted a little, they show that unfortunately no more children are born in Hungary, and if you will also distort employment statistics with those working in Western Europe, then we can see that a completely fraudulent picture will come before us, and when the Hungarian budget is divided, the last hundred thousand forints will be spread out on the basis of such a fraudulent picture. And we can also see, in terms of the demographic standard deviation, that 1.3 or 1.4 children are born on average per mother, a very important subject of discussion; otherwise, it is typically a statistical issue now, since this shift may also arise from distortions. But the fact that there is a region within Hungary where this average is 0.9, and there is a region in which the deciphering of this huge standard deviation should be put on the table inexorably, because without it they go down to the walking level in vain! If this is not explained by what is behind these phenomena and processes, it is not possible to straighten the coral, it is not possible to bring about a positive change at demographic level. Therefore, the Jobbik faction recommends these three main aspects to your attention. Since this is also a broad and genre extension of what you have placed on the table, it is not certain that you will see this in the form of an amending proposal. After all, once again, the comparison of microcensus and, let's say, the personal income tax return of parents who have children is a very different genre, quite different style. [[12.10]] But I'm pretty sure the two could only strengthen each other. I would suggest to your attention that if you really want to move certain issues in Hungary in a positive direction, whether they are measuring emigration, and most importantly, to promote children's commitments, then move in this direction bravely, and not just every five years look at a distorted picture, a distorted mirror, but get this real picture every year. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-54	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak, also within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs.
u2015-03-03-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We've heard a lot of things from the history of censuses to the total fertility rate, so if you'll excuse me, I'd rather stick to this legal text right now. Here, in order to understand what my problem is, which I would now be asking as a social researcher, I would like to raise some questions as an interested question, so it is important, once again, to say that we are talking about census data collection, which is being carried out on a representative sample. If a person knows the history of censuses and microcensions a little better, then he knows that there has been a 1 percent and 2 percent sample selection in Hungary, so it is surprising why this law would provide for a 10 percent sample selection here. This is what László L. Simon said here, from his point of view, that this is necessary because of the spatial data collection, and that this is because of the aggregation and communication of data at territorial level. Now this is interesting, because if you look at the data of previous microcensions, then there was also a spatial level of data communication, not only in county or regional, but also in some data groups, data were reported broken down into 176 national single mandate districts, for example demographic data. This is interesting because there were 176 individual constituencies at the 2006 census, and now, if you look at the number of walks, to which the author also refers, the number is 174 from this year, so practically even the element number is the same. In addition, if we assume from a methodological point of view that an analysis of the sample is necessary for the breakdown of the total communication at the district level, it is also questionable to me why this should be increased to 10 per cent. From a methodological point of view, that's certainly not justified, at least I don't see it. I would like to hear a specific methodological explanation for this. By the way, in order to understand that I am not speaking on the stomach, Zoltán Czibulka wrote on page 449 of the 84th grade of the Statistical Survey in relation to the 2005 microcensus, in substance - I do not want to read the whole thing, but the content of his writing - that I am talking about the microcensus, i.e. 2005 here, cannot provide census data at settlement level or more, but microcensus is capable of drawing almost the same conclusions as the census for larger territorial units. Thus, from the municipal level to the larger territorial units, the 2005 microcensus was able to provide relevant data with a 2-percent sample. The reason I have raised this question is that such a large increase in the sample obviously also significantly increases costs. During the 2005 microcension, about 70,000 titles and 188-190 thousand persons were reached. We'd like to increase this significantly to about 350 thousand addresses or about 950 thousand to one million people. This automatically results in a significant increase in costs. From the 2005 budget, we spent approximately HUF 560 million on microcensions, taking into account inflation and the growth of the sample, so that the cost of this microcensor can be paid at the first hearing. It is therefore interesting why such an increase in the pattern is necessary. Of course, in terms of costs, there could be reference here, as one of the speakers has said here, to the possibility of completing this questionnaire online, as in the case of the 2011 census. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the 2011 census, 18.6 percent of those surveyed have completed this questionnaire on the Internet, so it is less than one fifth. Four-fifths of people, a little more than four-fifths, had to be searched for by the questioning commissioner. So, given the need for 40,000 interviewers in the 2011 census, we're going to need about 4,000 interviewers here. You have to go to these people, you have to assess them, and then you have to process these paper-based data. I also think it is problematic to do such a large sample increase because it will be very slow to provide data. Here, the MSZP lead speaker mentioned how much to wait for data in the previous census; there was simply a technical problem for KSH, unable to process the paper-based information received. If we now increase the sample from 188,000 people to 950 thousand people, then we can detect similar problems. Or if the government insists on it in any way, then create the conditions for KSH to provide these data quickly. I stress: I say this as a social researcher, because it was very annoying after the 2011 census that we simply didn't get the right information quickly, but it took a great deal of waiting for the information to start leaking very slowly. It's difficult to work as a researcher, a social researcher. That's all I wanted to say about the size of the sample, which, for me, was a question. What can be mentioned as interesting is that otherwise interestingly, the basic population is defined in a slightly different way by the current bill than, let us say, the bill prepared and adopted for the previous microcensor. Refugees are not included in the current proposal; they were still included in the 2004 Act. I wouldn't go into the data structure itself, it's a very professional issue, and in addition, KSH has to adapt the data structure to the previous census. I would like to point out that there are two data in it, partly concerning the persons interviewed, partly about the apartments, which raises the question whether it is against the legislation that does not allow the data to be linked to a person. One is that they want to include the address of the apartments in the collected data and the date of birth of the persons. Data on the date of birth were taken into account for the previous microcensor only as regards the year of birth and the month of birth. If we put the date of birth in it now, that means the day has to be entered. From now on, the data will be much easier to connect to a person. Practically, if you take into account the entire data structure, this will be clearly personal. I'm not sure that's a good solution. The rapporteur also said that KSH intends to carry out certain additional data collections at the same time as the microcensus. I am glad of that, because I would have asked what these additional data collections would be. Perhaps it would be worth writing into the text of the law, so that there will be no misunderstanding later. To tell you the truth, there is one more problem that I do not understand, exactly why responsibility should be taken out of the hands of KSH in the Hungarian Defence Service and in the institutions of law enforcement agencies. [[12.20]] This proposal states that the head of the institution is responsible for data collection. This is not included in the previous microcensorial law. What has changed, what is the reason why KSH is not responsible in this case? That's all I really wanted to say. The teacher came out of me a little bit, so allow me to make a little conceptual clarification. Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned the total fertility rate several times, and apparently for the sake of simplicity, so that anyone who watches the broadcast from outside could understand it also said how many children a mother gives birth to. But that's not really what it shows, it's how many babies a woman would have in a lifetime with the birth rate of a given year. It's a fictitious indicator that changes very quickly over the years. This fictitious indicator does not mean exactly that, but in substance, if we simply want to say it, it can be simplified, but the total fertility ratio is a more complex indicator. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-56	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. Dear Parliament, It is now time to take the floor requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. I give the floor to Mr. Mihály Hepp, Croatian ethnic advocate, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-03-03-57	Štovani predsjedavaju.i, Štovani zastupnici! Pošto prvi puta sam uzeo riječ u cijenjenom Parlamentu koristim priliku da kao i moji kolege Vas pozdravim na svom hrvatskom materinjem jeziku i zaželim Vam uspješan rad. Mr President, Honourable Members, After my first speech in Parliament, I, like my fellow speakers, took advantage of the opportunity to welcome this House in Croatian and wish for an effective work. On the subject discussed by the National Assembly Committee on 2 March 2015, T/3410 discussed the subject. Legislative proposal No 1 on which the following agreed opinion will be given on the microcensions to be carried out in 2016. As an introduction, I would like to say that in the preparation of the 2011 census, the Association of National National Governments took an active part and represented itself in the Hungarian Central Statistical Office with two members. I would point out that cooperation has been very constructive and that we have been accepted and incorporated on almost all issues, and we hope that this will also be the case in the preparation of the microcensus. By studying the backgrounds and summing up the experience of the 2011 census, the National Assembly Committee supports the submitted bill, but asks that our experience and comments be taken into account in order to achieve the success of the process, which would be as short as possible. We recommend that the Central Statistical Office consult the National Committee of the National Assembly during the preparatory phase of the microcensus, of which two members should also participate in the preparatory work. The questionnaire should be compiled in such a way that it can be compared with the questions raised in 2011 because otherwise we cannot compare. In any case, the mathematical sampling should take into account the percentage of nationalities and the location of nationalities in the country. It would be good if, as far as possible, the members of the nationalities could participate in the compilation of the interviewers. When preparing the questioners, it should be stressed that issues relating to nationalities should be asked in absolute and binding terms. I would like to point out that we will probably still be asking for the floor in the detailed debate on the bill. Dear House, Thank you for listening. Hvala na posornosti.
u2015-03-03-58	Thank you very much for Mihály Hepp's views on Croatian ethnicity. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-03-59	Thank you very much for the floor. After Szabolcs Szabó, Secretary of State, L. Simon, had not been in there the whole time. [[L. Simon László: I was in there the whole time!]] So we have a similar question, which is why I'm going to ask you one more time to make sure that we get a meaningful answer to that. If, so far, microcensions every five years have 2 percent of dipping, what is the reason for the 10 percent now? This is an important question, and we would like to know the answer. The other question would be whether the MTA and its professional organisations were consulted. Used to be. Our question now is whether or not there has been a discussion. The reason I'm so short is to make sure we get an answer. I asked these two questions and we're waiting for answers. Thank you.
u2015-03-03-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-03-03-61	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that there is an exceptional case here that an independent Member is also fertilizing the debate. Thank you for the professional comments, by the way. With regard to the total fertility rate, we ourselves could carry out very long professional analyses of what should be researched and what exactly, but this is a general parliamentary debate on plenary day. So it would be more important for me to think at least at the level of principles that it is important for the government to improve our demographic situation, adjust it, straighten up the tree. Until we see the basic conditions of this, of course, we can connect with each other on how to be more specific in the various concepts. Obviously, when we see, in terms of the total fertility rate, that, as a result, in Hungary, there are 50-60 thousand fewer children per year than the Hungarian population would be left at zero, you should not be angry, Mr. Congressman, but the fact that you are missing refugees from the sample and that we are talking about immigrants, who I may have talked about more than they deserve, because here we should get an accurate picture of Hungary's internal relations, perhaps not the solution. On your part and on the part of our fellow Members, it would probably be better if they were able to enrich both this debate and the presentation with proposals for the straightening up of the Hungarian tree. It is very important for me, too, but even more important is whether you recognize the basic problem that you are trying to answer. The right or wrong answer is a question, but it should be said at last in this Parliament that Hungary is not one of them, but its biggest problem is the loss of population. Here is a tool that can provide at least partial responses to solutions. And if there's a common understanding, then we can move forward. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss, MSZP.
u2015-03-03-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we have just heard, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, asked my fellow Member Szabó Szabolcs why he did not speak in accordance with the Jobbik-narration. I ask that we accept that there are other parties in Parliament besides Jobbik and that there may be other approaches. It is particularly interesting to ask a specialist to try to enforce this kind of professionalism in Parliament. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You don't understand that either.]] Obviously, there will be a wide range of aspects in the debate and there will be some development from these aspects. Nationalism advocates also add, quite rightly, their opinions based on their own values, and everyone says what they want to say. That's the point of the debate. I do not want to talk about the 15 minutes, I asked for the floor only because I felt that during Mrs Bangóné's speech, my fellow Member Font also had a hiatus about what was the result of the 1784-87 census, but since we are more history teachers in the group than we are, if I may say so, I would like to tell you, instead of my fellow Member Hiller, this result, so that we can go home today without creating any historical hiatus. Well, about eight and a half million people were registered in the 1784-87 census, of which about six and a half million of these eight and a half million were in the territory of the Kingdom of Hungary, 650 thousand in the Kingdom of Croatia and 1.5 million in Transylvania. At the same time, it is interesting that historians do not estimate this figure as eight and a half, but as 9.2 million. In the end, I'll tell you why, and that might be an interesting parallel between the past and the present. It is certainly interesting that the proportion of nobility is 5 percent, which is at the forefront of Europe. And if national circumstances can be mentioned: about 40 percent of this population was Hungarian, 16 percent Romanian, about 10-10-10 percent Slovak, Croatian and German, 6 percent Serbian and 3-3 percent Slovenian and Ruthen populations. [[12.30]] So it can be said that this census could have given surprisingly accurate data even if the Hungarian nobility had not feared that II. Joseph has sanda intentions regarding the introduction of the census. And it can be said that the sanda intentions could not only characterize the then Hungarian government between 1784 and 87, but also now. The Hungarian nobility, not without every basis, thought that this census would take place in order to prepare II. Joseph's excellent plan to tax them. And since the Hungarian nobility did not want this tax to happen in any way, many of them boycotted this research. Hence, there is no new under the sun, it can be said that the fear of many is that the government uses this research for sanda purposes. That's why we're living with the suspicion that they're gonna use it for all kinds of government horseback. As a result, we have a significant obscurity about us, which is why we want to ensure that this does not happen. I want to thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-03-64	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2015-03-03-65	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to finish very briefly the line of thought that started at the main speaker's. I am very pleased, by the way, with all the speeches that can be considered as history lessons. I myself build a lot of these, and I don't feel like there's a place for this to be in a debate. In fact, I do not want to dictate to other parties what they think, what narrative they should approach this whole issue. What I was trying to draw attention to was that the many, very important, I do not want to say that, in addition to the issue of the sidelines, but perhaps not a little bit towards the core of the subject, I would very much like to say that, at government level, there would otherwise be measures and series of measures aimed at improving the willingness to have children, which could be based on a kind of data collection. I do not see it, I simply do not see the intention in the government that, in addition to the mandatory knowledge of the microcensor, the mandatory knowledge of the censuses at given intervals, it can set up a series of actions on what vision it has of the whole issue. Therefore, we have made concrete proposals, and we have made specific recommendations. When we talked about the assessment of housing conditions, we drew attention to the need to establish a state-supported home-building and rental-building programme. When we called for the examination of the demographic standard deviation, we tried to find answers as to how this huge standard deviation between 0.9 and 2.4 can be derived from within the national borders, what local conditions or even national features influence the fact that certain areas, certain regions, are literally empty in Hungary. In one example, the last, a little over a decade, has lost more than 10 percent of its population if we also weigh this balance by emigration. On the other hand, I say that these are specific issues and require a government response, but on the other hand, the government of Hungary is there to say that, when planning social security or planning a pension fund, it still does not weigh its model with emigration. Yet, we know that hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary no longer imagine that they will pay contributions in the coming years, and that they will not be retired here either. And the government still plans to put budgets on the table without counting hundreds of thousands of people's differences into the model. It's just unprofessional and ridiculous. We also have to say that even in the Hungarian National Bank's calculation of pension fund, social security, etc., it did not appear, either before last year or last year, the weighting that counts on emigration. If we are talking about the issue of emigration, on which my fellow Member Gergely Farkas is submitting an interpellation or asking questions almost every two weeks, and they are always flipping off some meaningless answer, we must say that according to professional estimates, between 330 and 600 thousand estimates are known in the recent years, about, say, a decade, how many people have left Hungary. There is an accurate KSH measurement, but we all know very well that this can only cover part of the problem, as many people do not go into the office to announce that they are leaving Hungary for a longer or shorter period. But how does the government intend to work responsibly if it does not even know how many people left Hungary for economic reasons? There are certain surveys available on how many people would return, but once again, this is only a survey of registered persons, the background of which we do not know. And if, let us say, you leave the employment statistics and the number of living births in such a way as to include the children, work and work of our Hungarian brothers who are stranded abroad, then you will gain a distorted image that means that relations in Hungary cannot be modelled or, let us say, that budgetary resources are fairly distributed. Obviously, my fellow Member is shaking his head because he disagrees. Then I would ask you to respond and explain to us, opposition representatives, where the emigrated Hungarians are in these models. How distorted are the models by hundreds of thousands of people who cannot be here with us in Hungary? Most of those who leave Hungary not by their own choice, but because of economic constraints caused by this government, its predecessor, which was also an Orbán government, and its predecessors, right, by socialist-balliberal governments in Hungary. So this situation that you have created together has led us here. I would like to ask that, at least during measurements and at least in the field of statistics, the joint responsibility for this be recognised and that the necessary countermeasures be taken. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-66	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to MEP László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-03-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is very important that the Croatian ethnic advocate also made his arguments on this item on the agenda, this bill. I would also like to add a few things to nationalities. I think it is very important that we bring the 2011 census here, too, because it would be good to take a sample of what has succeeded, what has not. In relation to nationalities, we must make an important point about this 2016 if we want to introduce it and learn from the mistake that the government did then, which it did not. Here, I have to raise the question of nationality questioners. This means that, in many cases, the prosecution of the questioners was that they did not ask about the nationality of the persons, but moved on. It is true that this question was not mandatory, but it would be important if there were as many national questioners as possible, because then perhaps we could see a more accurate picture of this survey, which will be before us in 2016. The other thing we have to take into account is that at the 2011 census, the interesting thing about ethnic groups was that in 2013 ethnic minorities had to register for national elections in order to be able to run for municipal elections. Now, in the course of two and a half years, I don't know if you know these data, 50-70 percent more people have taken up nationality when you had to register than when you asked this in 2011 about the census. This also indicates that something is wrong, because when asked on the basis of the data of the HCSO, they did not confess themselves, especially the Roma did not claim to be a minority of nationality and ethnicity, and in the elections they accepted their nationality. So I would like to say with these two numbers that it would be absolutely important if the questioners were in several cases nationalities, because then we could see a much more accurate picture. This was the subject of the allocation of the budget. The ethnicities were misled here, we must state that, because the 2011 census data were linked to the possibility of setting up national minority self-governments in which settlements. You've turned this number into 30 people, and you've reached out to the KSH data you received in 2011. That's also interesting because they didn't know... I'll wait for you to finish, Mr. Secretary, so you don't hear what I'm saying, because he will, I suppose, answer. So the weird question is, if it can really be linked to the budget, and why shouldn't it be linked, then why doesn't national minorities in this case be informed that it will also be linked to the budget, to the electoral law, at such a level as to set a limit. [[12.40]] On the other hand, it is bad that the national budgets, right, will be defined, will go back to the KSH data, which is not a problem, not a problem, but we should have known in 2010 and 2011 that the data that they will receive and process will be limited to the processed data on which municipalities they can start, designate national governments, and the budgetary factor will also have a role in this matter. Therefore, if they want to give a clear and clear picture, and this would be ethical, then nationalities and non-nationalities... - they are assigned to the budget, they will be assigned one of these census questions, then they should be predicted, because then they could get really well and sufficiently numbers and figures that could be clearly predictive. The other and perhaps what is still very important on this issue, didn't you, my better fellow Member, say that there are areas where it is more limited that the number of children is growing, that the population is growing. I think it would really be important to establish a question or a system to see clearly and clearly why this issue arises, and not because it is absolutely important for Hungary to increase the number of people overall, but also because we see that poverty can, in any case, - although I may not be allowed to say that word here in Parliament, but I say it is because, in any case, poverty can limit this issue. It may therefore be important for us Hungarians to know what it is that can limit this issue, and we hope that it is not poverty, and we hope that it is not hopelessness, but a loss of hope that may still affect it. Therefore, if these questions arise, the responsible government must do something to make things clearer and to see things more effectively. Therefore, I think that we have something to do, and I see that it may be important again in 2016, even if we do not develop a complete census system, but only a microcensor system, but still, I think it is important to treat this issue by trying to draw on the data and those negative, positive things, then we can create a much more and better picture, and the question that we want to see in Hungary will be visible. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-68	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. A two-minute comment is possible. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-03-03-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Joining my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, I would also like to ask you a question as to whether there will be the necessary resources for a 10-percent sample instead of 2 per cent, will the HCSO be sufficiently prepared for this increased survey. In addition to my fellow Member Szabó, Tibor Navracsics replied in 2012 on a written question that the Office was not responsible for the delay in sampling, but was one and a half years late in carrying out the procurement procedure itself, which made it impossible for the Office to start processing at all. So, basically, there was a government error here, too, because they knew very well that the census itself would take place in 2011, but the procurement procedure itself had been delayed for a year and a half, so basically the delay in processing is due to this, and in the end there was a 12-month delay, which, I think, cannot happen again. We hope that the Secretary of State will give us a reassuring answer, or then the Hungarian Socialist Party will initiate, we will submit a proposal for an amendment where we say we will put forward a proposal for a mandatory disclosure of the data to the HCSO within a six-month period. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-03-70	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr László L. Simon, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-03-03-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank you for your active participation in the debate. The speeches made it clear to me that, although they have questions, there are parts of this bill that need to be clarified by the opposition, but overall, it is important that such an investigation takes place and that both scientists and government are given a broader picture of the state of Hungarian society. I therefore hope that the bill will be supported by my fellow opposition Members. Let's talk about a few things. Szabolcs Szabó and several others asked about the justification for 10 percent sampling. Obviously, we want to be informed as widely as possible, there is no other reason than the fact that we think that in a system where we want to go down to the districts, and we are aware - and I am also responding to Congressman Kiss - that, in terms of the size of the districts, the social composition of the settlements, there are very large differences in the number of inhabitants, and therefore it is difficult to compare them with the electoral districts, where the legal obligation is to make a minimum difference in terms of the size of the electoral districts. So in such a situation, it is justified to use as much sampling as possible. What are the elements of the additional immersion? Let's just say I made it pretty clear in the expozee that all of this will be regulated by the government in the form of a regulation, and that its preparation will, of course, be continued on a professional basis by the HCSO. I like that in the general debate, I am always asked what the detailed rules will contain after the adoption of the law. But don't let the car overtake the horse, pass the law, then leave it to the government to draw up the implementing regulations and the detailed rules. Refugees are clearly not dealt with by the bill or dealt with by research, and research is not the subject of it. If, on a professional basis, it is necessary, scientifically, and even for our political decisions, to carry out a comprehensive examination that gives us a real sociological picture of the refugees flowing to Hungary, then that can be done, but not in the framework of this investigation in 2016. Thank you very much for the contribution of Mr Mihály Hepp, a representative of the minority. I think that there is no reason why the KSH should consult the nationality committee. In the context of this debate, I would also ask the leaders of the HCSO to do so later, and all the important aspects that have been set out here on behalf of their fellow ethnic advocates, to be included in the work, as I am informed that they have also expressed their fears at yesterday's committee meeting which I believe are otherwise unfounded or unjustified, but of course they must be taken into account, and I would ask colleagues to enforce them in the course of their work. My fellow Member, Anita Heringes, asked me about the discussion. During the consultation, during the preparatory work, civil society organisations and governmental organisations were consulted, not the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which he asked about. I do not see any obstacle to consultation with relevant experts from the MTA when drawing up the detailed rules and establishing the methodology. So I can accept your suggestion, by the way, along with that I actually went out of the Chamber sometimes or once, but only behind the curtain, so I have heard everything, honourable Member, and I have listened to everything and made notes, so I have followed my fellow Member Szabó Szabolcs's speech from the first sentence to the last sentence. So thank you for your concern for my presence, but life is hard. I can tell my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, that, while the system of considerations he raised is important, and by the way, it may be necessary to take into account the data of the tax authority or the Hungarian Treasury, he said, to be precise, that the government has little idea of these data. I assure you, Congressman, we have a vague notion, and we have more than one concept. We can now, of course, not use these data in the form of statistical official public data, but obviously, the elements of tax data which are not part of the tax secret, or the experience gathered at the Hungarian Treasury, will be integrated into government work. [[12.50]] This is obviously an unknown area for you, because you have not yet been governed, and we hope that for a long time, for many decades, this will be the case, and you will not have any experience in this area. So I'm just suggesting that this might be the background of your indiscretion. I would also like to make it clear, Congressman, that the government is not looking, so it is not the government's job to research. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's not what I said.]] Let's not ask the government to look into it. The research needs to be done by competent experts, based on the data set set up by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office and the Central Statistical Office, by social scientists, economists and others in the field, and it is the government's job to make social policy decisions and draft legislation using these data and research results, the opinions established by social scientists. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. 1.4 children: here interesting polarity emerged between Dániel Z. Kárpát and my colleague Szabolcs Szabó. I don't want to go into methodological and conceptual issues here, that's not our job. One sure thing is that whoever listened to the Prime Minister's annual speech could also have heard the Prime Minister stressing this move as a positive thing. But we also need to see that it is impossible to achieve significant results from one moment to the next. It's a slow process. The result of four years of governance is the many values shown by this coalition of governments, starting from family tax incentives to re-regulation of the social system, through job creation programmes. The result of these is also that there is a slow but apparently tendential increase in children's numbers in Hungary. However, my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, is right in saying that it would be a good thing if it went above 2, so I could agree with 2.2, so I did everything for my part as a family supporter and head of the family. I can wish for similar things to my fellow Member, so that many children can be raised and raised fairly. This way, honourable Member, must be set an example. I'm only saying this because my good-looking fellow Members are always worried and there's something to be done here. I can tell Congressman Kiss that... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The vest is a little big, isn't it?]] I'm in a suit, Congressman, and I listened to you with honor, and I didn't yell at you. So what I can tell Mr Kiss about his concern about law enforcement agencies is that KSH has not carried out the survey there. At the same time, speed was mentioned here in the speeches, and if I have listened very carefully, this is what Mrs Bangón's position was about. This survey will be carried out electronically in 2016. This in itself is a guarantee that data collection and data processing and disclosure will be possible much faster than a census. If you think that there is a need for a legal guarantee here, there is an open opportunity, my fellow Members will present an amendment, we will look at what it will be like and we will consider whether we accept it or not, whether we support it or not. I would be a little careful with what my fellow Member Teleki said about the nationality interviewer, because at such a maximum of 10 percent sampling, it may not be justified, but this is already a methodological issue that I would leave to professionals, but I also consider the proposal of the Member. To sum up today's debate, I would like to thank my fellow Members once again for their activity and, in fact, for their positive attitude. It appears that both pro-government and opposition representatives consider it important to conduct this investigation between the two censuses, and we all expect to collect data that are important for our social policy visions. So I ask my fellow Members to support this bill with their votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-03-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Thursday 5 March at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain agricultural aid laws until closure. The submission was made in T/3412. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-03-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill, which the Parliament has just started to negotiate, contains amendments to four laws, which all address questions related to agricultural aid, primarily not of a substantive nature, but of a technical nature. These four laws are set out in Annex XVII of 2007 on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. Act XX of 1996 on identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes Act CLXVIII of 2011 on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. Law. Only the MVH Procedure Act and the Compensation Act, the other two data protection laws need to be amended only in order to authorise the processing of data by the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development. I will briefly present the content of the substantive amendments. The amendment to the MVH Procedure Act introduces the institution of the host declaration in the case of grants where advance partial payments are made and the aid is settled at the end of the period with the customer. The new EU State aid rules provide for the principle of so-called incentive effect, according to which beneficiaries must submit an application to the Authority before the start of the activity or use of the service. The institution of the reception declaration may be used for grants where ex ante partial payments are made. Sub-payments may be made on the basis of the statement of receipt. In the case of existing aid schemes, such as animal welfare aid or premium premium, the aid application and the request for an aid call constitute an application and therefore no longer meets the requirement of an incentive effect. The other major amendment will allow for the possibility of withholding it not only from the EU but also from national support in the event of the public debt of the client requesting the aid. So far, in the case of public debt, it has not been deductible from national aid, but the whole aid has been rejected. As a result of the amendment, the customer becomes entitled to the aid, but the public debt will be withheld, thus reducing its public debt, but any remaining amount will be allocated to the client by the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development. In addition, the rules of the default penalty will be technically amended in view of the closure of the restructuring programmes and there is therefore no reason to maintain any further fines for them. The amendment also ensures that the ecological target areas that may be taken into account in the application of the green component for area payments are eligible directly for land-use land-use land-use aid. For this area, the land user applying for aid does not have the right to use it, but it is not necessary to do so, as it is only a virtual use. However, it is appropriate to provide for the possibility for a person exercising the right of disposal over the landscape to exclude this virtual use or to benefit from some form of support by the land user applying for aid. [[13.00]] In order to ensure this, the change requires that the owner or trustee of the landscape element may, by 1 February of the year in which the aid application was submitted, request the MVH not to recognise that landscape as an ecological target area. On the other hand, the land user receiving support for the ecological target area shall, in the case of an invitation from the owner or trustee of the ecological target area, carry out protection against raggrass or other hazardous weeds and rodents in the relevant ecological target area during the duration of the support, in accordance with the legislation and transport of solid waste. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Compensation Act is justified by the fact that the European Commission has approved the introduction of an event of frost damage in autumn and the rules for reducing the reduction of the working rate from 30 to 15 per cent. In the 2012 Fund, despite the climatic anomalies typical of the past years, due to the compensatory effect of higher prices and, not least, the strict payment conditions of the Fund, large amounts of funds were accumulated, half of which came from the money transferred by producers in the compensation scheme. On this basis, it is understandable for farmers to expect that if they suffer damage, the Fund should provide adequate compensation and not only accumulate the funds they have paid in part. The easiest way to achieve this demand for the producers concerned is by reducing the European Commission's expectations of the scheme, which was not required by EU rules and was originally in place before 2012, and the additional conditions for faster approval, i.e. the annual reduction in the yield of the producers, which is the reduction in the production value at operating level minus the savings costs, from 30 to 15 per cent. However, I would like to point out that it remains a basic condition of support that damage in damaged culture should reach 30 per cent per year and that, if the producer does not have agricultural insurance, no more than 50 per cent of the compensation allowance in principle may be paid as aid. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill on the grounds stated and then adopt it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-03-03-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Those who have listened to the presentation of the Secretary of State can safely sum up the fact that, in a decisive way, in particular by opening the first two sections, the rapporteur is trying to clarify technical issues, since we are trying to clarify the rules on customer handling of data processing, MVH and the various authorities involved in agriculture in order to make it easier to use and serve customers. The other two sections are, we can say, substantive measures to help farmers. Perhaps we can announce this as a whole. Indeed, the opening of the agricultural and agri-rural development law partly settles a number of technical issues, such as the naming of the institution system of the host declarations, the settlement of the client's public debt, according to which this public debt can now be withheld not only from EU subsidies but also from national subsidies; or the clarification of the procedure for default fines, the clarification of the e-delivery order by the MVH. The same technical question, I could say, is what regulation and under which conditions the minister may regulate the database, data reporting and data content managed in the MEPAR. What is more exciting, however, within this opening phase, is the new conceptual order mentioned by the Secretary of State, the concept of greening, agricultural payments, a new condition related to one of the funds, the inclusion of ecological target areas, its separation. It is well known that the payment of area payments from 2015 onwards, from this year onwards, is no longer automatic, and that, overall, approximately 30% of it is subject to a condition under the new EU rules. This includes crop rotation, including the management of a grassland and the separation of the ecological target area in EU legislation, which is mainly for arable crops producing more than 15 hectares. This is where the question to be clarified by the legislation is what the ecological target area can be, what we can name for it, whether we separate 5 percent from the fields that we own, which are still actively used today - in the basic situation, yes, we have to do so - or what the legislation allows us to do now, the various areas that are next to the farming areas of the farmer, which are either forest lanes, trenches, free-used areas that meet the requirements of the ecological target area, kunhalms and others, are listed in detail in the legislation. So the legislation that is being taken now facilitates the possibility of involving the ecological target area, and does not make it an exclusive condition that this 5 percent ecological target area is separated from the areas that are now actively cultivated. I would add that, of course, those who do not require this additional 30 per cent land-based area aid do not need to meet these new conditions, but we believe that, after the European Union has imposed this legislative pressure on all Member States, farmers are under no pressure to meet these conditions, but this legislation is good, as it is a strong help for farmers to fulfil this criterion and conditions. The opening of the fourth phase is also an area of our legislation on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production, which, we might say, has stood the test of time. We came to a new turn in 2012, after a multi-annual debate on the conditions under which Hungarian farmers can be included in the compensation scheme in the event of natural damages, first of all, that was the big question, and second of all, the extent of compensation and the condition under which it could be paid when the event occurred. Well, we see two substantive amendments here; both of them, I think, greatly help farmers so far. One is the inclusion of autumn frost damage into the conditions of damage. We really argued a lot in 2011-2012 about the damage that we think farmers are entitled to compensation after. Classic winter frost, spring frost, inland water, flood, flood, sudden rain, ice damage, and let me not list - we thought then that we had included all the conditions that might happen, and it turned out not. At the end of September 2013, an unexpected chill of -3, -5 degrees occurred in one morning, and perhaps those who saw large vineyards saw that the leaves had dried up within two days, and the ripening of later grapes stopped at that moment. The winemakers had to be very aware of the stage in which they started the forced harvest, and unfortunately, secondary arable crops, which unfortunately fell victim to frost, could be seen in an incredibly large area. [[13.10]] For example, the biggest damage occurred in the sweet corners, as it is well known that after a spring crop and the spring, early summer harvest of a autumn crop, there is still a great chance that a secondary crop can achieve a very good production value with a September-October harvest. A lot of people take advantage of this, and we are good at this here in Hungary, in the Carpathian Basin. In 2013, the early and unexpected autumn frost destroyed an incredible production value, and we can now integrate this conceptual circle by climbing various EU bureaucratic barriers - but this has succeeded and we congratulate the agricultural purse and the staff who have fought for it - so that autumn frost as a conceptual circle can be included in the legal basis for compensation. Also mentioned by the Secretary of State, a serious discount is also linked to damage events. For farmers it is well known, especially for those who have already suffered damage, and when they had to be accounted for, they had to show how much this damage was, then many have faced the fact that, let's say, an apricot plant suffered 100% frost damage in the spring, so that no crop has come off, but this farmer has a different crop culture, perhaps animal husbandry, in many areas, and current legislation requires that compensation is granted only if the loss of sales is so high that, in relation to the figures of the previous year, the loss of all sales exceeds more than 30%. Now, this also means that if the farmer had a good income in other crops, perhaps even a price increase, he suffered 100% frost damage on the aforementioned apricot plantation, if 80 percent of his total income was achieved in the previous year, then he had no legal basis to initiate any compensation, even though he was 100% in that apricot plantation for ice cream. Many resented this threshold for being tall. It is no coincidence that we had to take into account European Union and statistical rules again, and now we have finally achieved that this 30 percent threshold, called the yield reduction threshold in the professional language, could be brought down to 15 per cent, so that farmers who have suffered damage in a much more favourable position, who also have other areas outside the area of damage, which have not suffered any damage and their turnover. So the 15 percent threshold is half of what has so far been the 30 percent threshold. So I dared to say at the very beginning of my thoughts - and with this I close the thought line - that each one, all four open sections, will bring about a change that is clearly favourable to farmers. I would recommend to my fellow Members, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, that they support this motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Font. I give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-03-03-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that the MSZP faction will support the bill, and I would also like to say on what grounds we will support it. According to this bill, it will be possible to retain it not only from the EU but also from national support in the event of the public debt of the client seeking support. In addition, the rules on non-performance fines are technically amended, given that the restructuring programmes have been completed and it is therefore not justified to maintain any further fines for them. The bill also ensures that land areas directly bordering the eligible area of the land user requesting the aid are eligible for the ecological target areas eligible for the application of the green component of area payments. In addition to the above, given that the Commission has approved the introduction of the autumn frost damage event and the reduction in the yield value at the operational level, which Mr Font also spoke about, from 30% to 15%, the new provisions are added to the Act on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. On this basis, the proposal submitted therefore essentially contains amendments resulting from changes in technical and EU law. The faction considers that the only problem point in the proposal is point 14. Article 79/B of the Rules of Procedure to be amended Paragraph 4 of the Act, which effectively imposes on the farmer to carry out the public tasks and their costs in the areas of ecological importance, in exchange for the aid. So in view of the fact that, as I said, the proposed bill contains most of the amendments resulting from technical and EU law, as I said, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the bill and the problem 14. We are going to initiate an amendment to Section 5 of the Act. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the following in this debate. The establishment of a direct support system for the next EU budget cycle is very late. In our view, this will be a major problem, because this year's aid payments could be put in jeopardy. The national rural development programme of the next EU budget cycle has not yet been adopted by the Commission, which is very - how should I put it? - we think it's dangerous, because we don't know when the first calls are due this year, and we think it's the government's fault. With the spending of 2014 funds, there are huge problems with which we are risking the development of the whole year. There is no legal background to the greening manual and other implementing regulations are still missing from the aid scheme. Finally, in the last four years, rural and agricultural employment has not increased in relation to government propaganda, but has decreased as the number of registered family farmers has decreased and labour-intensive sectors are having problems. We therefore believe that there is a need for new incentive schemes and non-criminal measures, but, as I said, the Hungarian Socialist Party faction will support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-03-03-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Agriculture is of paramount importance to the Hungarian people, and since we are EU members, agriculture includes subsidies. The bill we are discussing now also provides for the amendment of four laws on agricultural aid, which have already been named. It is possible to read from the amendments that, in order to improve the operation, the support system and the rules for the Hungarian Office for Rural Development need to be refined and updated. It can be seen that the amendment is full of minor or minor technical amendments, and there are only a few major changes. Amendments to the data provision are only important in so far as they improve the functioning of the system. The provision of data is necessary for the operation of the support schemes, and its system is now changing and expanding. I think it is clear that it is important to have more accurate and up-to-date data available at the Hungarian Office for Rural Development on farmers who require subsidies. In practice, a more precise system helps farmers to receive the aid sooner. The procedural law, as has already been mentioned by several speakers and State Secretary before me, is an important proposal to introduce the institution of the reception declaration for aid financed by individual state resources. This addition is also important because the new EU State aid rules require the principle of incentive effect to be applied to the authorities before the start of the activity or use of the service. In the case of aid schemes currently in place, the aid application and the request for a grant constitute an application. This does not comply with the incentive effect requirement. In order to ensure that these support schemes comply with the new EU standards, the former amendment is absolutely necessary. [[13.20]] Several people have mentioned it to me, and it is obviously impossible to bypass it, and it is an important innovation that the new draft law introduces specific provisions in the area of ecological importance. In order to match the requirements of greening for ecological target areas, farmers applying for aid may also account for land elements which are directly bordered by their territory. But I've heard a lot of people say that before. The amendment to the Agriculture Risk Management Act recognises the autumn frost damage as an elemental damage, as Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member Font mentioned. In view of the stated objective of the Agricultural Risk Management Fund, which provides protection for all relevant natural risks in Hungary, it is appropriate to include it in the autumn freezing system, which is otherwise relatively rare and with low overall damage, in line with the needs of the labour-intensive gardening sector. An important and long-awaited amendment, my fellow Member Font, pointed out that the annual level of compensation for the reduction in the yield of farmers due to the agricultural damage event decreased from 30% to 15%. Farmers have a legitimate expectation that if they suffer damage, the Fund will provide adequate compensation and not only accumulate the funds they have paid in part. The easiest way to reduce this demand for the producers concerned is by reducing the European Commission's expectations of the scheme, which was not required by EU rules, and which was originally established before 2012, and the additional condition of support for faster approval, i.e. the reduction in annual producer yield from 30% to 15%. Overall, legislative amendments to the aid scheme will improve the functioning of the aid scheme, including the possibilities of farmers. It's not just for them, but it's for all of us, it's for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, We also support the draft law on behalf of the KDNP fraction, and we will vote for it in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-03-80	Thank you, Congressman László Earth. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-03-03-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I'm not going to tell you a big secret by not being the biggest debate in this House, I think, from the past period. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will be able to support this draft, but at the same time we have concerns and we also have plans for amendments, and I would like to draw attention to them. I'd like to start by saying 79/C. We would like to include a new section in Section 2 of this section, namely that in order to change the permanent pasture and permanent grassland, a permit from the nature conservation authority is required even if these parts of the land are not in the natural area. Here, the transfer of authority to the nature conservation authority, where appropriate, is justified by two factors: on the one hand, apart from the exceptions laid down in the Nature Conservation Act, the change of cultivation branches is not subject to authorisation, but only it must be notified to the real estate authority, which cannot exercise authorisation powers. On the other hand, since this licence is granted to the nature conservation authority in the natural area, which has developed a common practice to enforce it, it would not be appropriate to confer on the real estate authorities, as an exceptional task, the authorisation of the conversion of permanent pastures and grasslands which are not protected by nature protection. That's what I'm asking for in any case for consideration. I could quote a lot more, and I could give you long examples of where the present draft and the Real Estate Registration Act, the Land Traffic Act and, above all, their implementing regulations do not apply uniform terminology and how diverse terms are used in one case. I would like to draw attention to these in the context of amendments, and to the implementing regulations, I would like to ask you to take the post-production seriously, and indeed to change these implementing regulations retroactively, so that there is a common use of words for these laws and implementing regulations. We also support that the amount of public debt can be deducted from domestic sources. This is an absolutely long-awaited and eligible step, and here we are pleased with the reduction in the yield at the operating level - perhaps the most serious issue of this legislation - that Jobbik's intention to make an earlier amendment, perhaps in December, has been raised and adopted. I believe that this is a serious opportunity for those affected, and I think they will be paying attention to this amendment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that although it is indeed an facilitation for domestic producers in terms of ecological target areas and greening, that you are, let me say, a free interpretation of the European Union's objectives and, at least, the solutions required in terms of communication, many farmers will certainly have a simpler life by putting trenches, forest bands, kunhalms and which are listed in the legislation, which can be taken into account as an ecological target area. However, let us face it this way among ourselves that this was not the original intention of greening, and this was not the way the European Union started when it created the way to pay area payments for the new seven-year budget cycle. Once again, I understand the intention, and I'm sure you'll have many beneficiaries, but I'm afraid that those countries that have already opposed this kind of support and said that we should simply stop on area payments will be very much in those countries. I fear that this is a threat for the period after 2020, that the countries with agricultural interests have not taken this seriously - because I know this will not only be the case for Hungary - greening, so there is a danger. The second is that Hungarian farmers are not properly informed about this ecological target area at all. I know that you will now be sure to list a number of training and agricultural chamber materials, which says that you have certainly informed all those involved, but you know, for example, that Agria's conference has recently been held, and there have been many such questions, although there are typically young farmers who have met and met more often with the English language, and who are much more familiar with the use of the Internet than their older colleagues. Nevertheless, there have been serious issues and shortcomings in this area. I would just like to encourage the government that, since time is very urgent and many people can be very wrong about this ecological target area, if they are not sufficiently familiar with what they should look like in the future, I would like them to be informed in time and try to strengthen this. Payment of grants - not strictly part of this legislation, I know - we are really watching with serious concerns, both for this year and for the future, we are not the ones who claim that there are serious shortcomings and delays in this area, the press echoes this, the profession is constantly expressing this opinion, and I would just like to point out here that they should definitely get involved, because we could lose serious billions if the current situation does not change in a very short time. With regard to the data register, we are also not convinced that such a history, which the Fidesz-KDNP government has, should be left to you. I don't think they'll be able to convince us. In addition to these concerns, we are, of course, constantly submitting amendments to them, and some have already been tabled. As I have already said, Jobbik will otherwise be able to support it, because it is essentially technical amendments, some of which are essential for aid to be implemented smoothly and farmers to have access to these opportunities in a timely and appropriate manner. Once again, I urge the Secretary of State and the Government to consider what has just been said. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[13.30]]
u2015-03-03-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker of the LMP.
u2015-03-03-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If my better friend Zoltán Magyar closed his thoughts by proposing his proposals for consideration, I suggest that Jobbik reconsider his own attitude and perhaps re-evaluate this support, because, indeed, this bill is a far greater villain than it seems at first. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán came to Parliament yesterday, took his place, and said again and again to an MSZP question that the Hungarian government's intention is to create a 20-80 percent share of small farms and to push all efforts in the direction of Hungary's country of small and family farms. The Prime Minister thinks that if he says it many times, it will, even though the government continues to go in the opposite direction to this bill, persistently and unwaveringly. This is what the full proposal is about, but to learn what they can expect from the possible position of the LMP, I will run through it. The proposal on public debt is the only one that I think we can fully support, which we can support, because it has been completely nonsense. I don't know why the wallet is just now thinking about coming up with this, it should have been done this way a long time ago, it would have been a practical and good solution. It would have served the interests of applicants if this regulation had been implemented earlier. So we have no problem with this part of the proposal. Compensation is also part of something that can be partly agreed upon, but this is the part where we should talk about how we can put in place certain economies that the Prime Minister has said to be small and family farms. Because most of the time, due to the economic scale, the system of compensation does not help the small ones, after determining the percentage of damage and the way in which the damage is financed. Why can't a degressive instrument be introduced in this? Why can't any solution be applied to compensation so that plants over a hundred hectares don't use it? Help those who are really hurt, who are really troubled, not only if 30 percent, but also if 10 percent of their crops go away, and do not help those who have other income in other areas in some crop rotation, in different cultures. So we are suggesting that if the Prime Minister is serious about what he sometimes says in Parliament, we should try to help the small ones, try to put them in a position where we support them in a greater proportion, we will take greater account of it, and not for the big ones. That's what we're starting to argue about. We get to the most critical and unscrupulous part of it, that's the definition of the ecological target area. At the establishment of the common agricultural policy, the Member States of the Union are sitting down, wondering how subsidies should be maintained, how the European countryside should be managed, and agreeing on this budget cycle for the need for an agricultural support system. It has been agreed that in some way the ecological potential of the European Union, its natural habitats, the potential in which there are very, very many social added-ups, as well as the management background, I can talk here for a long time about, say, wildlife management. This was the designation of ecological target areas. There was a debate to make it seven percent, three or five percent. Overall, it is clear that industrial agriculture produces hundreds of hectares in one, ignoring a significant part of the landscape, ignoring the fact that there is an ex-river bed in it, for example, in the Great Plain, that there is an ex-melt, which may be inland in two out of three years, but it is worth continuing to use it, because it can be bought with area-based aid and possibly compensation contributions. This proposal would have created the opportunity to encourage farmers, with a landscape management approach, to take part of their areas of minimum efficiency out of production and to create reeds, mezzanines, trees, anything that has other economic benefits and can contribute to the livelihood of the countryside in other ways. This is important because of wildlife management, to mention this too. If we are talking about Hungary's small wild game, it reflects Hungary's natural state much more than the large wild game. The big game adapts very well and has a very good ability to adapt to the large estate structure and intensive agricultural areas, that's what reattaches. But you need to see how the quail, prisoner, pheasant's natural population has changed in the last 25 years. It is necessary to look at the impact of the greening intention agreed by the Member States of the European Union under the common agricultural policy. In his introductory presentation and introduction, the Secretary of State says that the legislation creates the possibility of virtual use of an ecological target area. I fully agree with what my better fellow Member Zoltán Magyar said, which will benefit a number of farmers, because he does not need to develop his ecological target area. But who's it gonna benefit again? Not the extensive grazing. It's not for someone who wants to farm in an extensive way, and let's say he wants to consider what the landscape is for and what it's for. No, it's gonna help the great again, and it's gonna create the possibility again that if there's a charge near a river section, or there's any section that you can report, especially if you don't give me a god, it's a state territory, or a property that your ownership background won't go against, you don't have to do anything there. You get 30 percent extra support without doing something with a simple administrative step to say I'm bringing in the adjacent area. That's insolence! We're practically giving support to farmers, which is right, because otherwise they wouldn't be able to make a living. But giving extra in greening without having to do anything but take an administrative step is impertinent. Insolence against the European Union and impertinence against the natural state of Hungary! The aim was to create, once again, an ecological corridor for the spread and reproduction of species, and to create the background that the common agricultural policy calls ecological potential and sets out to develop it. But you don't want this. You want the farmers, who have hundreds of hectares in one piece, to receive the same support for the whole, and you can even get 30 percent by adding the areas next to them, and nominally, even if they don't own them, they say there's an area next to me. This does not increase the quantity of natural areas in Hungary. It's not growing! By doing so, it may be possible to obtain some additional support in those areas, and farmers will obtain one in addition without doing anything for the purpose set by the agricultural policy. I don't think it's right or right. Here's the other feature, with which we find it very difficult to agree, not that we do not agree, but that we do not understand your system. There's all this data that MVH wants to access. Article 5 The draft states that the MVH's access to the databases should be extended to date, as this is justified for the implementation of the 2014-2020 programming period. I will tell my fellow Members who do not do this: agricultural support works by sitting down in front of the computer, stepping up to the corresponding online surface of this, where there are maps of its farming, entering the area with 6-8 clicks, and starting to sketch where it is farming. You submit this request to the MVH, and the MVH will start by examining this request. Please check that in the relevant block at the Land Office, the farmer who applied for the aid has, say, a legitimate, credible land use notification. Then when you've determined that you've asked me two questions because, let's say, you haven't found the serial number... As many examples as I can give you from the practice, requests from the MVH keep going. The farmer confirms that he is legally using the area, certifying that it is indeed his property. So they answer this, then they make their findings with the MVH. The MVH has access to the database, but it doesn't want farmers to have a simpler fate. Because why should the MVH not be able to grant the aid to each farmer on the basis of the legally declared use of land only to demonstrate that there is real farming? We oblige farmers to do multiple administrations, and I haven't even talked about the animal registration system, which is a circus. Two identical varieties do not have the same registration system and all other administrative obligations must be fulfilled because ENAR access does not allow them to have access to some varieties and show their real economic size to farmers. So in this complex administrative system, we increase MVH's access to the data, to which you refer to the cycle 14-20. Of course, it is not possible to know why so far there has been little, because it does not give a reason for the change that makes it necessary to change the data processing rules of the procedure at such a level. It therefore does not do the simplification, asking for additional information without helping farmers in the administration. That's a bad way to go. As a whole, the direction of the legislation shows us in full that the government intends to continue to pursue the policy of the Great Land that it has done so far. [[Sándor Font: That's not true!]] This is reflected in the legislation. [[13.40]] So, basically, it's easy for someone with large areas, the easy register, we're trying to save them by not having to take areas out of ecological target areas, and in any way - feel free to say, either President Font Sándor or the Secretary of State, how do you think this helps small farmers? How? I mean, doesn't anyone with three acres have to take five percent off? Well, what difference does that five percent of a farmer have? Nothing. This counts for the one who will have the 4,000 hectares in one piece, for not having to take anything out, but for the Danube to mark the riverbed with its price area as an ecological target area without doing anything. Tell me. I'm persuadable, because I don't want to get involved in this, so tell me how this helps the interests of small and medium-sized farmers and family farmers, because apparently it doesn't. Therefore, the fact that the MVH has access to all its data does not seem to help the interests of farmers at first because it does not entail a reduction in the administrative burden that would help farmers to have less administration. So I don't see this here. In public debt retention, I told you that's the only thing we can support. In compensation, after setting percentages, the person who has a lot can again benefit from a lot of support, who has a small one, a small one. Again, this does not help the small ones to get ahead and receive additional support. That's what we need. Again, it's not helping. Once again, in the ecological target area, it is what I said, and as I said, its most important approach is that in the whole draft and in the government's attitude it remains visible that the management of the portfolio is quantitative. To this day, it can be seen that the productivity and effectiveness of agriculture are measured in machetes and not in terms of the employment rate of Hungary's agriculture, it doesn't matter! It doesn't matter what percentage of the products produced by the Hungarian agriculture are placed on the Hungarian market, it doesn't matter. What matters is how many pounds we've produced. The year we produced a lot is a good year when little is a bad year. This is the view that I think we should completely break up with. And returning to the ecological potential in one word: it should be broken down because it should be noted that the direct aim of these support schemes, the transformation of agriculture, can not only be to create the background for those working directly in agriculture to live better, but also to contribute to living in the countryside. And wildlife management aspects, for example, are completely ignored by ecological facilitations. We say that the jobs that should be maintained there are not important. This one job does not count in the large wild area of 3,000 hectares, but when there are 20,000 hectares in a small wild area, and there will not be the potential to fulfil its obligation under the Wildlife Management Act, because this is contrary to small game management, which is reflected in this direction. So, overall, I will ask, especially the opposition factions, to think about how this can be supported, because from the fact that there is one element in it that might be forward-looking, there is one element in it that may have positive benefits for farmers, this does not mean that the whole proposal is good for the Hungarian countryside as a whole or for the Hungarian countryside. Obviously, I will also ask the government that I will certainly submit several amendments to this, so that such an agricultural support bill can only come in if its additional, extended benefits contribute as widely as possible to the objective that the Prime Minister has regularly expressed and to which the government is taking counter-measures. I will ask the government to do so, and I will ask the honourable commission to support any amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-84	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] No one's come forward to speak. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary, has the opportunity to summarise the debate.
u2015-03-03-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that we're about to take a break, really, very briefly. I would like to thank you for your support and I can tell you not to listen to the LMP representative. I don't know, it's a serious fantasy, it shows that this bill led to the fact that it's anti-small and family economy. I'm serious, it's amazing. You don't know the basics, Congressman; I don't want to hurt you, I'm not sure it's your fault. The ecological target area already starts at 15 hectares of arable land, so these 3 hectares were the original Commission proposal on which it could be amended. Otherwise, in general - and I don't have time to talk about specifics, but I'm sure we'll still have a chance to talk about this - when the Commission came out with its original proposal for the CAP reform, and it has so much to do with this bill, but I'll tell you this: the anecdote in Brussels was that agricultural ministers got a little sick. Then, when the final version was developed during the negotiations, only the greens went to Brussels to show that the agricultural ministers had completely excluded environmental protection from this CAP reform. Somewhere in between is the truth, I think. There is also a need for production and for organic farming, nature conservation and environmental protection. Our aim was to adopt rules in Hungary within the framework of the Commission's EU rules, which will help producers and will also focus on environmental and sustainability aspects. By the way, legislation, such as greening, will also come out in March. Our plan is that it will be possible to submit a single application from 1 April. For example, in the context of greening, every farmer over 8 hectares of arable land, who is a member of the National Agricultural Chamber, will receive a very serious manual of greening farmers, where, among other things, the answers to the questions raised by you - and, of course, in the legislation - will be provided. I would also like to thank you once again for your supporting comments, and I would also urge the LMP to look at this bill more carefully and, if possible, to join the support group. Obviously, we will look at the amendments and discuss them. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Thursday 5 March at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, I remind you that, at the beginning of our meeting today, the Parliament has decided to hold a trial break for the duration of the inauguration of the Kossuth Monument. According to this, Honourable Parliament, I am now ordering a trial break. The meeting of the Parliament will continue at 15.00 after the end of the ceremony. [[Pause: 13.47 to 15.18]] [[President: Tamás SneiderJournalists: Ádám Mirkóczki and József Attila Móring]]
u2015-03-03-87	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I welcome you all with a lot of love, and we will continue today's work. In this context, CCXLII 2013 on the renewal and development of the City Park will follow. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/3400. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Hoppál, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-03-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me, as rapporteur for the agenda, before I turn to the amendment of the Liget Budapest Act, to laugh at the event which interrupted the meeting of the Parliament for a short time in the last hour, when, at the request of the President, in agreement with the parliamentary factions, we went to the front of the House, to the main square of the nation, and here in the midst of festive externalities, we were delighted with the restoration of the Kossuth statue group representing the members of the first Hungarian responsible government. As a rocking participant myself, I am pleased that many citizens have visited this event, which was also a cultural occasion for all of us. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! With the creation of the Liget Budapest project, the government launched a major cultural development in 2013. The task is quite complex: the complete renewal and complex development of the Városliget in line with its own historical traditions. Many people identify the project with the new museum quarter, which is understandable, as it is Europe's largest new museum development. However, the development has not only set itself museum goals, although it is also of historical importance in this capacity, since there has not been such a degree of cultural development in Hungary since the millennium. Let us briefly review the non-cultural development elements of the project. In addition to the construction of new museum buildings, the park will be extended and renewed comprehensively. After the rehabilitation of the green surface and transport of the park, unnecessary concrete surfaces will be removed, the green surface of the park will increase from the current 60 percent to 65 percent. In the renewed Liget there is also an increase in recreational and service supply. The plans include, among other things, the establishment of new sports fields, illuminated running circles, playgrounds, rest gardens and bicycle stations. As part of the investment, the National Museum, Restoration and Storage Centre will be built within the framework of a brownfield project in the area of the former Szabolcs Street Hospital, which is currently closed and dying. This will meet the most modern museum technology requirements and serve the institutions of the museum district. The area will be rehabilitated and new green areas will be opened for visitors from Budapest and Hungary. The project also has an impact on the functioning of almost all institutions already operating in the Liget. Allow me to mention four examples. First of all, the Metropolitan Zoo and Plant Garden will be expanded, the Pannonpark project will build the largest biodome on the continent. In addition, the Metropolitan Grand Circus will be given a new building, whose present building is in a rather worn condition. We are restoring the Romanian Hall of the Museum of Fine Arts, which has been renovated for decades. And another example: based on the original plans, we will rebuild the building of the Transport Museum. Through the coordinated development, Városliget will become one of the major tourist and cultural destinations of Budapest, known throughout Europe, a unique leisure park of wealth. As a result of the complex renewal of the park, a real folk garden, family experience park can be created in cooperation with the Government and the Municipality of Budapest, which is unique in its complexity throughout Europe. [[15.20]] As a result of renewal and development, the City Park can become one of Europe's most attractive destinations for family tourism to cities after 2018. Hungary and Budapest will be placed in a more prestigious place on the cultural and tourist map of Europe. The developments will increase the attractiveness of the area, broaden the range of foreign tourists visiting our country, so the project will mean a return to Hungary, the Hungarian national economy within a very short period of time, within 10-15 years. Városliget is part of a residential area park that also operates as a daily recreational area for residents of the area, and partly as a large urban park. The metropolitan people and visitors to the capital are already visiting to enjoy a uniquely rich and diverse cultural and leisure system and to take advantage of the opportunities offered by outdoor active and passive rest or various events. The renewal of Városliget can only take place in the framework of a valuable development that respects the complex heritage and natural values of the area, which will continue with the established traditions. This is how the Liget can be preserved, which has been one of the city's most prominent recreational free spaces for over a century, the location of spiritual, physical and psychic recharge, where culture, entertainment and green spaces traditionally have the same weight in the unique fabric of Városliget. The renewed public park, combined with the extended cultural offer, creates a new scene of culture and orientation for the visitors of Budapest and the countryside, as well as for foreigners. This helps us to understand our national values, while also serving to strengthen our national self-awareness. To sum up, it is safe to say that after the renewal and development of Városliget will provide more and better for all its elements and visitors in relation to its current state. The Parliament once gave faith in the renewal of the City Park when it adopted the Law on the renewal and development of the City Park in December 2013. The law designated Városliget Zrt. as the manager of the real estate property in Városliget, and as the developer of the investments related to the Liget Budapest project. The current amendment of the law is necessary to ensure the smooth implementation of the Liget project. The proposal aims to achieve two objectives. On the one hand, Városliget Zrt., which implemented the development, extends it to new properties. It also provides for the right of trustees and new structures to be built. With the statutory designation, the conduct of the land administration procedure can be accelerated because it is not necessary to conclude a property management contract, thus guaranteeing the immediate start of investments. Városliget Zrt. State-owned property to be managed is the following. The first is part of the Szabolcs utca hospital, the future National Museum Restoration and Storage Centre, which is currently the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. He's in financial management. Secondly, the Csillag Fortress in Komárom, currently owned by the majority of the Hungarian state, is Monostori Fortress Kft. It is in the management of assets; and thirdly, the building of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport, currently registered for the benefit of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport. All three properties are closely linked to the implementation of the project, and the acquisition of assets is therefore of paramount importance for the implementation of the development. To justify the need for this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly present the elements of the project contained in the bill, their current situation. The reconstruction of the Romanian Hall, the development of the Fortress of the Star of Komárom. The Museum of Fine Arts closed on 16 February 2015 for the duration of the large-scale reconstruction and the restoration of the Romanian Hall began. The Romanian Hall, citing the grandeur of the three-ship medieval basilica, was closed to the general public in 1945 due to World War II injuries, since then the former beautiful hall has been undeservingly functioning as an emergency warehouse. The giant plaster sculptures guarded in the Romanian Hall tell us about a faded fashion. CHAPTER XX At the beginning of the century, when the average man couldn't think of travel abroad and there wasn't even a modern film or photography technique, he made copies of the world's famous art treasures of the original size, so that people could admire these spectacles without travelling. [[15.30]] It's a glypoteca. This is the name of the collections that were natural exhibits of the great European museums all over Europe a hundred years ago. In the Romanian Hall, they found their natural home at the time the plaster statues, some of which had already been moved from here. For example, the classic Greek and Roman collection is located in the synagogue in Tata, but the Roman Hall still has its old atmosphere. The Monumental copy of the golden gate of the Dome in Freiberg is currently hidden by the shelving system, but Donatello's statue of Padua is still crowded with the baptism pool of the famous church of St. Michael, or even the better statue of the gate of the temple in Jak. At the same time as the renovation, it is necessary to ensure the placement of the collection of plaster copies held so far in the Romanian Hall, so the government has decided to establish the Csillag Fortress Centre for Art, History and Military Culture in Fortress in Komárom, which presents the former collection of plaster reproductions from antiquities to Renaissance, which can be used in education. The so-called Star Fortress of the Komárom fortress, which was considered the largest fortress system in Central Europe, built from 1827 to 1877, is suitable for the reception and modern presentation of the collection. The existing 3,600 square meters space and 800 square meters planned as an extension will offer a unique opportunity to present selected pieces of both antique and medieval and Renaissance material. The Fortress Csillag in Komárom's approval plan has been completed, and I respectfully report that the building permit was issued in April 2014. The task ahead of us is to conduct a public procurement procedure for planning and to conclude a design contract, which also requires the settlement of asset management issues. The establishment of the National Museum, Restoration and Storage Centre. The cultural development of Városliget also aims at the relocation of many existing museums and the creation of new ones. The squares of the Museum of Fine Arts are renewed, but the merger with the collections of the Hungarian National Gallery generates new tasks. A central storage and restoration centre is needed to accommodate the objects of renewable museums moving to Liget. The aim of the project is to create a modern, exemplary, cost-effective complex to preserve the status of artifacts, which serves as a common base for Liget's museum institutions. It is of particular importance that the service functions implemented here do not burden the installation of the City Park. The property designated for storage and restoration centre is the central segment of the building complex of the Szabolcs Street Hospital, which was closed in 2007, which is currently not functional, situated between Dózsa György út, Vágány and Szabolcs utca in that area. In order to ensure the smooth conduct of the investment, it is of the utmost importance that the part of the property affected by the development is Városliget Zrt. direct asset management. Development of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport. Within the framework of the Liget Budapest project, the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport will be rebuilt in its original state. Due to the start of the works, the museum will be closed on 15 April 2015 for a period of three years. The Romantic, eclectic church-like building designed by Ferenc Pfaff originally consisted of two parts of the vehicle hall and the impressive dome hall, which was placed parallel to Hermina Road. The museum was made by Miksa Róth. The Hungarian Royal Transport Museum opened its doors in 1899 as one of the first technical and transport museums on the European continent. The plan to expand the museum came up in 1910. The expansion of the building to the corner of Városliget was prevented by the outbreak of the First World War at the site of the former Iron Hall, which would have tripled the original exhibition space. The building of the museum was severely damaged by bombings in the City Park in July and September 1944, nearly 35 percent of the roof collapsed. After the war, there was no possibility of major restoration work other than the removal of the ruins, and the destruction of emergency response was carried out in 1947. The history of the museum was almost fatal in 1954 when the total breakdown of the building was decided due to the construction, insulation, structural defects and the magnitude of the damage suffered during the war. The works started, but even before the building was completely demolished, another decision was made to restore the museum, even in a more modest form. The museum's present state, which was highly mutilated compared to the original, was only achieved after reconstructions in 1964 and 1965. The complete floor section, including the dome, was adapted to the taste of the age. The corner towers surrounding the dome hall and the ground-floor spaces have all reached the same fate, simultaneously broadening the Hermina road. In the remaining area, the new Museum of Transport opened on 2 April 1966, which proved to be narrow at the time of its opening, so it was extended between 1979 and 1985. Due to the fact that it was only possible to build on the sharp-angled, narrow property, the expansion was rather modest. The museum's ensemble, which was established in 2000, was formed with the neck member connecting the old and the new building, which, however, is far from the impressive structure of the original building in its architectural capacity. We will restore the 400 square meter dome hall that suffered the bomb attack, and the reconstruction of the building will restore its original dignity. Under the building we also want to create a new exhibition space, which significantly increases the capacity of the museum's exhibition halls compared to the present one. In order to ensure the smooth conduct of the development, it is of the utmost importance that the property is Városliget Zrt., which carries out the investment. to be used for the management of assets. Ladies and gentlemen, Városliget is one of the most important public parks in Budapest, which has its own traditions. It is a national public matter to take these traditions into account in the renewal and development of the territory. We are now faced with European scale and quality development opportunities, which I, not only as a cultural politician, secretary of state and committed to the cause of culture, but also as a parent and a responsible citizen, I think are very important and I wholeheartedly support. With respect, I would like to ask you to support the bill with a similar commitment, which can enable the implementation of the Liget Budapest programme and the complete renewal of the City Park for the benefit of the Hungarian cultural life and of all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-89	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-90	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A bill on development that is important for the capital and the country is before us, and this development is not just one of many, but perhaps one of the most important in the near future. [[15.40]] As Minister of State pointed out, in the framework of Europe's current largest new museum development, five museum buildings will be set up in Városliget, for which the Museum of Fine Arts and Városliget Zrt. launched an open international architectural design contest in February 2014. One of the conditions for the construction works, as in the case of such large investments, it is customary for the State to take the area into its own property management. CCXLII 2013 on the renewal and development of the City Park. Act 29732/1 already provides that the so-called City Park real estate is Városliget Zrt. to be used for the management of assets. The proposal now expands the scope of these properties and designates Városliget Zrt. as a trustee in respect of buildings and superstructures newly built in the framework of the investment. The bill also settles the procedure for the transfer to the State, which means registration with data reporting at Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. This is in line with the provisions of Government Decree No 254/2007 on government wealth management. Allow me to add a few words to the introduction of Mr Secretary of State, because these are extremely important developments. Within the framework of the Liget Budapest project for the complex development and renewal of Városliget, five new museums are located in Városliget. The construction is planned to start in 2016 and the new museums can be occupied by visitors in March 2018. In cooperation with the Museum of Fine Arts, Városliget Ingatlanfejlesztő Zrt. launched international design contests for the buildings after more than a hundred years. The exhibition announces Europe's most important museum development. The new buildings - the Museum of Ethnography, the House of Hungarian Music, the New National Gallery, the Ludwig Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of Photography Budapest and the Museum of Hungarian Architecture - are built in accordance with the solutions proposed in the winning works of the 2013 settlement Idea Competition, at the edge of the park and at the site of the facilities in the City Park, which are condemned to be demolished. This will also allow the conservation, enhancement and reconstruction of the green surface of the park. In parallel with the design contest, the preparation of the other elements of the project, such as the extensive expansion of the Zoo, the renewal of the Metropolitan Grand Circus, the restoration of the building of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport, takes place in parallel with the implementation of the new museum buildings, while the partial renewal of the park's green surfaces started in spring 2014. During the implementation of the Liget Budapest project, the green surface of the city Park will grow from the current 60 percent to 65 percent by 2018. Cultural tourism also accounts for about 40 percent of Europe's tourism, and Városliget is one of the outstanding new attractions of international cultural travel. According to the calculations, according to the feasibility study and preliminary professional studies, the amount spent on improvements is expected to be recovered within ten years. The construction of new museums based on the investment is planned to start in 2016 and the buildings are expected to be ready and open in March 2018. Within ten years of the end of the project in 2018, the revenue generated by the development is expected to offset its total cost by 2028. According to the impact assessment of the project, among other things, ten thousand new jobs are expected, as well as 1 to 1.5 million additional nights of tourist traffic from abroad. The renewed City Park will be an outstanding attraction to international cultural tourism. Here, we note, we have reason to be optimistic, because the latest data show a dynamic increase in domestic tourism, which is highly superior to the pace seen in other European countries. The number of domestic guests increased by 10 percent and their gross accommodation income by about 15 percent in 2014. According to the calculations, the number of visitors to the institutions located in the Liget in 2019 after the end of the development can increase from 4 million to 5.9 million and is expected to stabilise in the fourth year in 6.2 million people per year. The project can have a further positive impact on the growth of catering traffic, the increased turnover of catering suppliers and the expected significant tax revenue of HUF 36.7 billion already in the construction phase. [[He doesn't reset his down mic, he's holding it in his hand.]] positive changes in job creation and country image. The museum district is also justified, of course, together with the Liget project, because there are currently few complex family-friendly locations in Hungary that offer a wide range of opportunities for other activities along with culture. In this respect, investment in the City Park is certainly a substitute in our country. A comprehensive survey of the City Park, including a full survey of buildings, roads, artifacts and trees, has been completed, is essential for the renewal and development of the park. In the history of Városliget, a survey like this has never been carried out before. A hydrogeological study has been carried out which notes that underground garages of planned buildings with appropriate technological application will not have an adverse effect on groundwater flows in the area, so neither the texture of surrounding buildings nor the water supply and water supply of plants and trees in the area will be damaged. Ecodesign and implementation of the development of the City Park can create a public park that is more environmentally beneficial and more functional than it is now. The role of Városliget in the life of the city is largely preserved and renewed by the Liget Budapest project, as a result of which Városliget, renewable in 2018, and its surroundings, will be one of the most important thematic areas of Budapest. There are also positive international examples of a good investment in building museum districts. For example, in 2012 the Vienna museum district had approximately 4 million visitors, which is double the number of visitors in 2002 and between 2007 and 2010 the percentage of foreign visitors in the museum increased from 15 to 20 percent.
u2015-03-03-91	Congressman, I apologize, please put it on your jacket, because you can't hear the speech properly. Feel free to put up and continue speaking. Mr. Congressman, put it on your jacket, because if you hold the microphone with your hands, it will disturb you and you will not be able to hear the speech. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: He dropped the tweezers and couldn't find them.]]
u2015-03-03-92	Thank you very much, and I'm sorry. In 2013, nearly 290 thousand guests visited the Berlin Kulturforum, built in 1985, and two years after its opening in 2004, special housing prices doubled in the area, and a number of large-scale residential housing projects were launched in this area. It can therefore be seen that such complexes are positive both in terms of their economic and social impact. I also mentioned the previous ones because, of course, like all urban development projects, they can give rise to debates. I think that there are sensible debates and, of course, there are political issues, because there are developments that need to be attacked, they feel. From an environmental point of view, I think you can reassure those concerned about the future of City Park. It is a very large project, yet it has been prepared with careful environmental planning and care, and the most important thing is that the area of the green surfaces is not reduced, but it is growing, as it has been described or made known; the new buildings are also predominantly, almost exclusively, in areas where buildings were used to be, or there are asphalted areas, uninstalled areas. If we look at urban development from the other point of view, then, of course, the role of such a museum district in urban development can be considered. I think that the examples mentioned above and the urban development, not only the museum district, but also the fact that this is part of the Liget project, part of urban development, development of the City Park, clearly demonstrate that it is a very serious, comprehensive development, which makes the entire historical part of the city see results, not to mention the inhabitants of the area, because we can talk not only about urban development, but also about family-friendly Liget development. Of course, certain buildings can be challenged. I think that the fact that an international open tender has been launched clearly shows that the government has done everything in its power to create the best possible works. [[15.50]] And of course, it is also a fact that every city can be successful without a museum district, there is also an example of this: for example, Barcelona, where there is no museum quarter, but we can talk about a successful city. I think that Budapest can combine these advantages - both the museum district and the Liget project and other recently created cultural sites, such as the Castle Garden Bazaar or other stories - together they can increase the attractiveness of Budapest, which could undoubtedly give a tremendous boost and move. It can be said that it is also a major investment for a hundred years, and I am very pleased that we can be part of this, both as a rapporteur and as a commentator. Of course, the law provides the necessary legal guarantees for this, and I therefore ask that, in order for the investment to be made as well as possible, these appropriate legal guarantees are required; I ask for the support of this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-93	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-03-03-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If the Secretary of State has honoured us by raising this agenda by raising himself a little bit, I think it is appropriate to be worthy of the Secretary of State, so if I may, I would start from here myself. The City Park has an old, mysterious tomb, which has been recalled by many in this House. On this tombstone there was only one inscription written in Latin, and this is: ".Fuit, i.e. this means that it was. In the grave, the former defender of Ignác Martinovich, Jakab Toporczi Horváth, lies a late lawyer, who should be known to have undertaken, let us say, the difficult and not too grateful task of defending the leading figure of Martinovich's conspiracy, to have spent all his wealth for charity. He simply asked the council of the city of Pest for a tomb to preserve not his name, but only that word, that he was. He asked that this tomb be in the then urban forest, in the current Town Park, and this tomb still stands to this day. Then, when Buda, Pest and Óbuda united, a major urban development began. It can be said that the conscious development of Budapest is almost unique, certainly in Europe, but perhaps only American conscious urban planning can be measured for the excellent work of Baron Podmaniczky's circles. In this connection, the City Park itself was built 200 years ago for a planned public park. This construction is so important in cultural history that it was one of the world's first planned public parks, a public park that can be visited by everyone, a worthy wedge of the new Budapest, so it was also given an important cultural task during the millennium. To this day, this nearly 100-hectare area is not only a favourite park for the metropolitan people, but also for the visitors, tens of thousands of people come here to play sports, relax, walk or walk dogs, and I think everyone who is in this room has a lot of personal memories of this park. I have such personal stories that I wouldn't tell you right now, but what I can tell you is that I think everyone who lives in this town or has been in this town has seen this park not only as a simple architectural masterpiece, not only as a green area, but as more than a very worthy cultural monument. Therefore, if it were just what the Secretary of State said to improve culture, I must say that it would be a very sympathetic presentation to me, too, as a cultural consumer, but I must say that, unfortunately, we have seen typical stories here too. At the end of 2013, the mayor of the district has since failed to submit a bill, which Parliament adopted with record speed. This was about what my fellow Member Manninger said as a normal procedure, as a standard procedure, but I also believe that this is the usual procedure of the Fidesz government at this time: we need to nationalise an area in order to make it much easier to implement the improvements that the government would like. Obviously, it would have been much harder to negotiate the fate of the property with either the capital or the district and to involve civil society organisations. Obviously, it would have been difficult to ask the locals what they thought, where appropriate, the users of the park. This was resolved by the then Congressman Papcsák's proposal. Then this company, which won this, had licenses that were given to few companies: practically building what it wants, cutting out as many trees as it wants, removing as many green surfaces as it wants. Although the implementation study itself says that no tree can be moved, this is certainly interesting, because if you just look at this document, you can see that this is physically impossible, but the implementation documentation itself is full of contradictions. In the meantime, it can be said that this legislation, which took place in 2013, has done its job, since since then neither the Zuglós nor the metropolitans have been asked, and it is obviously no coincidence that, as a result, this investment has been constantly under attack. It can be said that these are attacks of a political nature, of course, but if you look at who is protesting the urban grove investment, then you find that there are protesters from practically all sides of the political party palette, and civil society organisations who have never been involved in any political party's chariot camp. Therefore, I do not think that these civil protests can simply be swept away by the fact that they are indeed paid agents of the socialists. No, it is a matter of fact that it is very serious organisations who have made very serious reservations, if we think of either the professional organisations of architects or even local organisations of those living there, or even the green organisations that are often represented in Budapest. In fact, in 2013 it was not yet clear what the purpose was with this bill, but the plans obviously came up later. Otherwise, I would have considered it more fair that, if such plans were already in place, there were such development plans, then the government would have come up with it; this did not happen. I myself think that it is much more appropriate for the government to do its job and not work as a Hungarian voice on the basis of a representative, but to take on what it wants and conduct the social debates that have to be held under the law; this has not happened, has it? What's this about? 120,000 in the City Park. They want to build a square kilometer of net land with a building. You can imagine how much this 120,000 is (Sic!) square kilometers: approximately the size of Arena Plaza. [[Jenő Manninger: Hungary 93,000 square kilometres!]] It is planned to include 40 - meter - long buildings, which corresponds to about a ten - story house. It can be said that if the construction starts, the Liget will cease to be a public park, because everywhere there will be parade roads and utility trenches. On April 5, 2014, there was a great movement, where 5,000 people took faith in saving the Liget, 5,000 people. After that, I have to say, even the voters in Zugló have decided what they think of the Liget: they do not want this urban grove investment. Shortly thereafter, Zugló's new Member of Parliament submitted a proposal for a resolution, which wanted Városliget to remain a prominent public park, as Budapest needs more green spaces. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In fact, I think it is possible to argue that this proposal was good or not good, but not that it is, let's say, rather unusual - although it is customary in your government cycle - that it has not even been included in the series of subjects, so we have not been able to hear the arguments on why this proposal is good and why the proposal that Zugló's Member of Parliament made is not good. The Metropolitan Assembly also decided on this issue: the General Assembly pushed it into 108 items on the agenda, and in a few minutes the capital decision took place without a substantive debate. This, too, clearly shows how serious you think of the debate on this issue. [[16.00]] But let us look at some specific arguments that have been made. I think everyone in this town who wants more museums is on the right track. I myself believe that it is certainly good to have more museums in Budapest, or to renovate existing museums, or to expand their profile. I therefore believe, in itself, that increasing culture itself - if it is allowed to use this wrong word - is an important and important goal to support. It's just that the cultural space is broadened in such a way as to eliminate existing cultural space, either a park, or we are doing this by keeping the City Park itself, and we are moving these museums to other places, places where development opportunities would be needed, such as the area of the Rákosző. It doesn't matter. I think that by making this proposal, the cultural space will in fact not grow all over Budapest, by doing so, we are actually reducing existing cultural content, and at that price we will undoubtedly succeed by moving some museums. The other day, at a professional conference, we talked about what makes Budapest beautiful, what makes it a good, what makes it an attractive city for foreign tourists. Most people said that they like to come to Budapest because it is not the city that can be roamed in one day. Obviously, the most important thing for our economy is that tourists spend as many nights here as possible, which is why cultural developments would be particularly desirable that would allow the city's diverse museum life to flourish and cultural institutions in several districts. In itself, I do not think it is a good idea to centralise museums in a geographical sense. I think it is right to maintain the current traditions of Budapest, that museums are virtually scattered in the city, and that in practice it is possible to get people, tourists, to spend as much time here as possible. In that sense, I might be able to give you a domestic example. Obuda, we have the entire district full of historical memories. The distance between two amphitheatres, the urban and military town amphitheaters is about three quarters of an hour apart, and I would also like to see this kind of cultural movement within the district. However, our district is also richer with many other museums, not only the very excellent Aquincum Museum, but also the Goldberger Textile Museum. Therefore, I can feel what it's like to have tourists invade the entire district and wonder at the built or historical values of each district. I think it's a desirable goal, and I'd like to support it myself. It was said that green areas would actually grow rather than decrease. This is precisely the part of the architecture that is most strongly debated. In particular, the current wooded area is being cut out in many places and replaced, for example, by the construction of green areas on the roof of underground garages, which calculates that these green areas will grow. Clearly, a wood-cherry park and a green area on top of an underground garage are not the same. So what I mean is, on a mathematical basis, you can figure out whether it's 8 percent or 5 percent, or I don't know how many more come out, but the reality is, right now, there's a wood-cherry park, and it's not gonna end up like this. I do not think that these things can be proportionate, but I think that the function of the existing recreational park in the City Park itself is seriously threatened with this proposal. But of course, if you had asked those who are currently using the park, you would know that according to surveys, about two thirds of current visitors are going here specifically because of the green area function, the recreational function. So what we're talking about is that if we ask the locals or the visitors, they say that, yes, that's the function they're looking for here. As a result, we consider this to be a serious threat to change. The opinion of the municipality, which it recently published, is that the municipality generally supports both the expansion of the Zoo and the non-surface expansion of museums, but they are also seriously concerned about the felling of trees, and also because of a disproportionate increase in the traffic of the City Park. They couldn't say anything to the concerned locals either, but they had to endure the increased traffic. Neither the residents nor the current visitors of the park support the project. Of course, they would have learned that if they had conducted these consultations, which should have been conducted. Finally, I suggest to the government that the otherwise excellent cultural goals, which are about how to develop our existing museums, how to give more culture to Budapest, how to attract as many visitors as possible, should not be achieved by destroying the oldest public park in Budapest, but by looking for other solutions. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-03-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We'll get back to work. I would like to inform you that KDNP has not announced a lead speaker. I'll ask if you'd like to speak here as a KDNP speaker. [[No signal.]] No. In this case, Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, will be the speaker. Congresswoman, please.
u2015-03-03-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Please allow me to say that, in particular, if the Secretary of State has already started his speech in a very lyrical tone as his author, and he has also quoted the Wikipedia page for a long time in connection with the Museum of Transport - what can be known about the origin of the Museum of Transport, its former history - I should now be a little more relaxed about the agenda and the house rules as well, and I would like to mention the events that have been partly raised here by my fellow Members, and which is the period between the adoption of the original law and the amendment of the current law. I would like to start by saying that the international design contest has taken place, and let me immediately mention a personal moment in this regard. On my Facebook page, I published what our current folk art museum looks like and another picture of what the planned state of the folk art museum will look like. To tell you the truth, I also asked for a small vote from those who visit this page to tell them what they think compared to the two buildings, and what the first thought that comes to their mind about the new plan is; I quote: SZTK building, assembly plant, slaughterhouse. Or, in connection with another building, someone brought up an old children's hit for me, it's this, every mouse likes cheese. This would be the architectural museum, by the way, as planned. I think that this is speaking for itself, this small, mini opinion poll, and I would like you, my fellow Members, to see what the results of the design contest have brought. I have to say that international design contest here, international design contest there, these buildings, the quality of the buildings planned, is far below the standard and far below what is currently the architectural quality of the folk art museum. It can't be compared, one day it wouldn't be possible to mention practically these two buildings, I should actually sit down, and I should present my comment tomorrow or the day after, because they are simply so invaluablely bad buildings. There is still such a thing in Hungary today, I think, that it is common taste, and, if nothing else, public taste will certainly hate these boxlike structures, which have little to do with, let's say, Hungarian folk art, since we are talking about the museum of Hungarian folk art. [[16.10]] But the same is the case with the House of Hungarian Music and unfortunately with the Hungarian Museum of Architecture. So, to put it mildly, life has not proven, the design contest does not justify the need for this whole project, which we told you here at the time of the legislative proposal, even when we presented the original bill. We do not think that already existing buildings, museum buildings should be empty, and that because of some concept it should be crowded into one place in the fabric of the city, this is already a questionable idea, but the final result of the international design contest is proof of this; it is a completely unnecessary project, for which this originally planned HUF 150 billion will be spent unnecessarily, and we will even cause explicit damage. In addition to the aesthetic damage caused by buildings later on, it is another damage that has already been mentioned here, the significant reduction in the green surface. I remember the debate on the bill, here the pro-government representatives mixed the concept of green land with the concept of green surface, and here there was also a little polarity in the House at the time. Thank God, we have now been able to clarify that we are talking about a green surface, and, yes, unfortunately, the truth is that, as the previous speaker said here, it is not the same green roof as the active green surface of an existing public park at the height of a tenth floor, it does not replace it in any way. Not to mention - [[To László Kiss:]] Forgive me, my fellow Member, but let me clarify what you said. - to 120,000 square meters [[László Kiss: Yes, yes!]] the new built-in surface, which will place an additional heavy burden on the surrounding and remaining green surfaces. And then - let's keep going, 'cause time's really running. - here's the question of Regnum Marianum's fate. I would expect a government calling itself national and Christian not to take on the legacy of Mátyás Rákosi and believe that the reconstruction of this former sacral memorial is necessary and essential. On the other hand, it seems to me that even the little memorial remains will be lost, which reminds me of the former temple. And now don't tell me, in your rejoinder, that the Catholic Church doesn't really want this, and that's where the parish has actually ceased! Of course, the parish has ceased, its church has been destroyed, Mátyás Rákosi blew up - how would there be a Catholic parish there now? But I think that this is a legacy that we should build, we should rebuild, and the destruction that history, the Communists, have done should be restored, so that's what one would expect. On the other hand, despite the fact that you mark a function of faith in the original bill, this building will not fill it. All they promised me was that the original church's sub-church will be searched, and by the way, we should know that an underground garage will be built all over the area. You can only protest against this every time, every forum. The same is true of Vajdahunyadvár. It has been mentioned in the press recently that the Agricultural Museum in Vajdahunyad Castle has to move. In this regard, we have never received a reassuring response anywhere, only those who are already practically packing, this is the only meaningful information that comes to us. At the time when the law on the protection of cultural heritage was amended, the present representatives of the government also told us that, because of economic sustainability, or it could be the basis for a change of function, for example in the case of a museum, such as the Museum of Agriculture, in the case of Vajdahunyadvár - in Hungarian: it is possible that it will be moved from there. Question is, what's gonna happen instead? The original law lists many things: cultural, touristic, transport and the other, and other buildings of purpose in this area, but among other things - which is completely natural, I would add - it is added that, for example, a building for entertainment purposes, this is also listed in the original law. In a sense, this leads us to conclude that the entertainment, catering functions that you wish to place in a separate structure, so we are not talking about the cafeteria of a museum, the restaurant of a museum, we are not talking about a lecture hall in a museum, we are talking about separate structures, what will these structures really mean and deny, Mr. Secretary of State, but we have to think that this could be a casino, if any. Now, in short, I would like to draw your attention to the law before us. First of all, as rapporteur, let me say that you should already tell your colleagues to respect the House next time, so that it is not written in the bill - I quote - that the Komárom 802, Komárom 803, and Budapest XIII. The district will have 28056 localizations, but it might be possible to write that this is the former building complex of the Szabolcs Street Hospital, or the Fortress of Stars and its moat. Why isn't it clear to you that it has to be understood? Why does it hurt you to add the most necessary explanation? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: I told you! I told you!]] Look, I'm sorry, the bill you just defended, that's your excuse, that's your excuse. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: I told you!]] Big word, very, very thank you, but, you know, Mr State Secretary, Parliament's TV is not watched by everyone, for example, some people are informed about Parliament.hu, they are informed about the writings, and for the future, this text remains, as it is written in this document what the legislator was thinking. Specifically, nothing, since there is virtually nothing in the general and detailed justifications. But what else isn't written? For example, you do not justify why it is actually necessary for the trustee to receive the right to dispose of the superstructures, the right to manage assets in relation to the new superstructures. Why not just the building...? Why can't they stay in the management of the state's assets, or, where appropriate, the museum, say, I don't know, in the management of any institution in the management of these buildings? Why not? We didn't get... [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Yes, I did!]] No, no, I'm sorry, we didn't get any answers, and we didn't get any explanations. At the same time, I would add that the original law is about that this trustee does not have to take into account the depreciation description of these structures, which, by the way, belongs to the Hungarian State, i.e. public property, so our assets, so he has no responsibility in this respect. This was preposterous, but it is very incomprehensible to me in connection with these new structures. But that trusting authority, I might add, will now extend to the Fortress of the Star of Komárom, won't it, Mr. Secretary of State? Not to mention that the building complex of Szabolcs Street Hospital will also be covered by this trust right and that they do not have to provide depreciation descriptions; and that the ban on the creation of shared property will not apply to assets transferred to asset management. So, you're not going to be subject to national property law 6. Paragraph (1) of the Hungarian law, that tribal property cannot be sold, can not be charged, shared property cannot be created in terms of the total amount of property, so, once again, it will not apply to any of our museums, so it can be divided, it will not apply to Szabolcs Street Hospital, it will not apply to the Fortress of Komárom - why? Why didn't you explain that, Mr. Secretary? And the same is the case that the national property law is the 11th. Paragraph 8 (c) and (e) also does not apply to the same distributed property. [[16.20]] So, overall, I have to say, Mr Secretary, that for us, only the questions remain, and these questions are as follows. Explain to us what this Liget project is really about. Who will benefit from this? Cui prodest? - as the old Romans asked. For whose sake do you commit this crime? Now, answer that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-03-97	Thank you very much. Now it's time for Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, to be the lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Városliget is a memory from a time when the city's management considered the health and relaxation of city dwellers to be more important than the realisation of megaloman investments. None of the citizens with a minimal interest in public affairs now doubt that some of the vegetation in the City Park must be destroyed because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán wants to move to the Castle, and we need a place in the Liget for museums moved out of the Castle. This investment could not be made in any European capital in this form, both because people would not allow it and would chase politicians who want to build a monument at the cost of sacrificing living trees, bushes and animals, and because European politics is the XX. In the second half of the century, he left behind the view that the urban environment could be sacrificed and the green area could be built freely. We in Hungary are still struggling with the problems of the last century; politicians who want to decide what's good for them instead of people; architects who believe that a dozen-glass palaces in the City Park are more beautiful than a giant platform; investors, for whom nothing is expensive if you can spend a little bit of public money. Thus the many decades of birch and linden trees of Kossuth Square were destroyed, thus endangering the Roman coast and the Normafa. Hungary does not like this policy, and in terms of the values of the majority of people, it is already the 21st century. It's at the end of the century. When the Architect Forum organised a poll on the future of the City Park with over a thousand respondents, more than 90 percent opposed it. I repeat, over 90 percent were against any new building being built in the City Park. Only 8 percent agreed that existing museums should be relocated to the City Park, and only 5 percent thought that if we could install a museum in the City Park, it would be appropriate to place it in a new building. Budapesters don't want a new building in the City Park, they want more trees, more well-kept lawns, birdsongs and flowers. Every intervention from the Liget project is in political and economic interest, but only in a narrow circle; it is not for the people, but against the people's will. The political force, which is responsible for the inhabitants of Budapest, and which is also concerned about future generations, cannot do what you are about to do. Budapest is one of the worst places among European cities in terms of green spaces per capita. VI, bordering the City Park. In the district there is less than 1 square meter of green space for one resident instead of the internationally recommended 21 square meters. Anyone who wants to take me away from this for any reason, for any reason, will be assassinated against the health, environmental safety and tranquility of the people of Budapest. Even the one-party constitution guarantees the right to a healthy environment. The only tangible guarantee of this right in a densely built urban environment is public parks that bring nature close to the city's inhabitants. The current Nature Conservation Act aims to meet the needs of society for healthy, aesthetic nature. However, in their normal life, only public parks and urban green areas can provide this goal for people living in cities, especially those who are raising young children, pensioners and those who are disabled in their movements. By adopting the City Park Act, you have granted yourself an exemption from the existing environmental and nature protection regulations and the installation rules for the Liget project. However, they cannot bypass the constitution. If environmental rights are violated as a result of the planned investment, there is a good chance that it will create an unconstitutional situation. The government amendment proposed now to the law would bring further incomprehensible elements into the text of the legislation. In order to carry out the investments related to the renewal and development of the City Park, the trustee - Városliget Zrt. - gives you an XIII. district property, which currently operates as a homeless supplier on Dózsa György Road, without providing its replacement. There is no reason to explain the step, nor do we know why the Liget project will be implemented if the Fortress of Komárom or the Museum of Transport is transferred to the Budapest trustee, which is designed to take part of their past away from Budapest again. These changes are not supported by LMP. In our eyes, the living spots of the urban environment are as valuable as those of the national parks, which the majority of governments also value nothing. And we value every man who lives here, even if he lives in any of the districts adjacent to the Liget, and even if he's homeless and spends his days under the trees. This park belongs to the people of Budapest, and it has not survived the past centuries to sacrifice it for one of the meaningless dreams of the Orbán government! Not a single tree, not a single blade of grass will be lost! We will take advantage of all legal options so that the capital's living legacy cannot be squandered by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-99	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now an independent Member would come, he could come, but since there is no such thing, two-minute speeches are possible. I can see that the Members who have asked for a normal word are also in the mood, and they will be given the opportunity later. The first two minutes will be Mr Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-100	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I listened with interest to the heated debate that my opposition colleagues were trying to provoke. I don't know if they've been to City Park lately. I was out there the other day, checking the Transport Museum for the state of the park. I suggest that everyone see if it is good that this is the case at present, whether the buildings they can find there are good. I think that all the plans made by the government can give this park a good direction, a new one that can be worthy of a European city. I'm hoping we can take this road. I would like to remind all my fellow Members of the debate that was drawn up in connection with the transformation of Kossuth Square. Even then, we heard almost the same arguments. Perhaps the representatives of all opposition groups feared for the green area, insulted the government, and in the end, the result speaks for itself. I think that whoever was out in Kossuth Square today at the inauguration of the Kossuth statue was once again able to raise his soul in a way and felt that yes, we could create something. Now this work is going on, Budapest can continue to renew, and I think that the rethink of Városliget and the creation of the museum quarter is an important stage of everything. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-03-101	For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss, MSZP.
u2015-03-03-102	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, the result speaks for itself. We were worried about the green area in Kossuth Square, and it's paved with concrete. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-103	No, there are no two-minute speakers, no more people asked for a word; but there is a whole series of people asking for a normal word, first of all Mr.Sebestyén Vácsó, Jobbik. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2015-03-03-104	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out in part what my colleague Enikő Hegedűsné Kovács said, and I have some questions about this proposal. So first, I want to say what we heard about the Museum of Ethnography. What we do know is that this building has been a ethnographic museum for over five decades. Understandable are the reasons why I would like to return it to its old, original function, and we have also heard reasons about the relocation that the building is functionally inappropriate for the operation of a ethnographic museum. I think the last five decades have shown that it is, yes, suitable. But if we say that we should go back to the roots, return to its old function, let us say that on one side of the nation's main square, legislation is located as one of the pillars of the power branch, then on the other side of the other branch, the other pillar, the Curia as the judicial authority, the question arises that, when we look at the building itself, I understand that a building complex of peasant houses cannot be built in the downtown of Budapest or in the middle of Budapest, which would be worthy of a ethnographic museum, such as a complex of buildings capable of presenting folk arts, and I therefore say that in its appearance, in its nature, the present Museum of Ethnography was compatible with what the Belbecs, the content has shown, but that is in contrast to what we see in the visual designs. I'd like to compare what we've seen in the sights to apartments and block blocks. I think that if we build a museum, then the outside needs to suggest at some level what we see inside. If I look at this visual design, it does not occur to me that within Hungarian traditions and temporary exhibitions I can learn about the culture and folk culture of other peoples, but rather I would say that when I look at this building, what happened: the House of Terror is being moved from Andrássy Road? Because I'm thinking more of a group of intimidating buildings, citing such socialism, embracing the principles of socialism, and not what I think, given the respect of traditions, could be an enticing building, giving the character of a ethnographic museum, for Hungarian or foreign visitors wishing to learn about it. The other question, which was also raised when it came to the fact that the town-liget project, the law, was being amended again, was a vague hope that perhaps the Regnum Marianum temple would finally be settled. What my fellow Member has already said is that, of course, the church has renounced this parish, of course, because it has been demolished to the ground, and that if the government took this matter, it would be possible to establish a new parish there. I would go further on what my fellow Member Enikő Hegedűsné Kovács said: not only does the current government follow Rákosi's path, but the government also follows the path of Ferenc Gyurcsány, because the Regnum Marianum Church, a new Regnum Marianum church, would also mean that we do recognise that Hungary is the country of Mary. I understand Ferenc Gyurcsány was the last Prime Minister to say that the Virgin Mary had taken her hand off the country. This would be an opportunity for you to refute this, to re-establish such a parish with the Catholic Church, and, indeed, to prove that you believe that you believe that you are a government of a national Christian government, as a cabinet, that, yes, Hungary is the country of Mary, and, yes, we need a Regnum Marianum Church in Hungary. The other issue is the real estate in Komárom in the proposal. We didn't learn much from the reasoning itself, and I didn't know what it was really about. Now we've heard about what it's all about in the Secretary of State Expo. As a county of Komárom-Esztergom, I am pleased that if your Star Fortress in Komárom is renewed, the Várárok will be renewed, because we know very well what this is like at the moment, I could say that it is in a life-threatening state. I can also say that this building deserves to be assigned a function that can restore its old light to some level. Yes, let's use it to create a very good cultural and museum ensemble. What I don't understand is what this is doing in City Park development. 80 to 90 kilometers separate these two places from each other. I don't understand why this has to be in the City Park project, why we can't create a separate Komárom project for this. Of course, in my fellow Member's speech, I think that there may be nothing here but real estate. You may deny that, Mr. Secretary of State. The other thing that was said by the Secretary of State, which was also not read out of the bill, we learned from the expoze what purpose it was intended for this renovated building, what museum they wanted to put in it. I agree with all of this that copies of sculptures or exhibits in an unworthy place should be given a space where they can be viewed and placed worthyly. What I don't understand is how objects found in the museum of Roman-Greece sculptures in Tata, as heard in the expoze, come into this circle. I grew up on Tata, I'm a Tatai, I'm an integral part of the city with the exhibits in it. I don't understand why the government's goal is to take this to Komárom, why Tata can't stay there and increase the reputation of the city any longer. Although it may be possible that the visitors of this museum have decreased in recent years, but with due attention, with the appropriate - in an ugly word - PR activity, I think the old light of this museum can be raised again, and, yes, it can be made into a museum that can be built into the nature of a Tata jewelry box, the nature of Tata tourist center. That's why I don't understand why these things need to be moved to Komárom. I would like the answer of the Secretary of State to these questions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-105	Thank you. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-03-03-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to recall the last sentence of my fellow Member, Jobbik, that we are waiting for his answer. Just now, in the case of agricultural support legislation, I have established what a nasty attitude on the part of the government is that they do not take part in the debate, but they always say their views in the closing words, so that they can no longer react. So I would also ask the Secretary of State to take part in the debate, if possible, so that we can have a return answer rather than a reaction to everything in the closet. The lead speaker of our performance has said about our party's position, and obviously I have a lot of questions, especially here after the pro-government speeches. Not only do they come up in specific details of the proposal that we have just tabled, but it is also generally suggested that if we look at Hungarian society in this way and think that, well, we have 150 billion, what is an important task, then this is indeed the first thing the government will think of. Is this the kind of people in Pest who control the government that it's the first thing to spend it on? Don't you see what can be used for? In the countryside, a large proportion of museums have been loaded on municipalities, so that they cannot maintain, they cannot organize a program, the municipalities tell them to write TÁMOP programs and what they know to make something - and here a 150 billion-dollar development can be used? Because if we were to say that if they were so serious that this was the most important and really meant to be, then there would still be another way to do it with this solution or with another solution. I'm a very newbie, because now that I've had this very grateful job, I've been in the capital for more time. [[Németh Szilárd István: This is too much!]] When we visit the Liget with the children and the family, I always wonder if all the families in Pest where there are little children are missing or missing the green surface. Where can they go? Is there a loss if there's a green area? I told you a long time ago that if God ever gave us the power to govern, I would ban investments that could be called greenfielders. So there would simply be so many brownfield options in the capital area where some transformation could create such a solution and not this solution. You seem to enjoy cutting down 100-year-old trees, and I don't understand why. So why is this better for you? I also don't understand your sense of democracy. If your party says that the people and the people and I don't know who's important here, then why can't a local referendum decide such a question? Or a metropolitan... so to ask people if that's what they really want, if not in budget use, but if, let's say, we create a museum grove. Then Congressman Péter Agh said here that, well, he was out there and he saw how bad the conditions were. Please, Congressman Agh, go around the country and see how many more bad things are going on. Can we spend $150 billion anywhere? So if you go anywhere to the Hungarian countryside, to any settlement, I say that you will find such places everywhere. [[16.40]] It is a completely incomprehensible argument that the Member went somewhere and convinced him that money should be spent there. What I am saying is that Congressman Manninger's argument can be accepted, but he does not argue as a pro-governmentist that such a quarter is needed in the Liget, but argues that cultural developments are good for the city's tourism. I can accept that argument. It's not what I'm arguing about. I'm arguing about whether we have to do this in City Park, this is how we do it, we have to do it now, and we have to do it for that. These are the issues. I say the capital has the right to develop. Obviously, you can do this by ruining the entire Hungarian countryside and not turning resources there; if this government thinks so, then you can do so, the two-thirds authorized it to make such decisions. At the same time, if you are already making this decision, why can't you take rational considerations into account? Obviously, it is a little bit influenced by the fact that, basically, I see the function of maintaining urban green spaces as an unbelievably large part of every tiny remaining habitat. I'm not talking about a nesting place for singing birds, I'm talking about the recreational opportunity that anyone can go to after work. The aspect that Congressman Manninger represents is very, very important, the importance of tourism. With this decision, the government is taking territory away from families living in the capital in order to pass it on to tourism. This is of economic importance. The only question is whether improvements that create economic benefits should be made in such a way that families in the capital, families with small children, are the paying ones. Should it really be done in such a way that it goes to a place where its function, its possibilities, would give many other tasks? Overall, I think that Hungarian society has given Fidesz quite a high legitimate mandate to do all kinds of things that should not be done. You can obviously live with that. One of the government MPs said there was opposition fighting. Believe me, I absolutely respect your right to do what you want, but I just want you to think rationally about the consequences of a 150-billion-dollar development of what would happen without harm. Yet you want to do it with a price and some harm done. I ask you, if there is a way and opportunity, to abandon this plan or think about it, to look at the situation of Hungarian society first, to see the situation of rural hospitals and secondary schools, to look at the multitude of those that I have told you about how rural local museums have been handed over to local governments, who have taken over the difficulties of maintaining them, and to see how much there would be a need for livelihood, economic development, and what HUF 150 billion would be possible there. And if you've looked at this, and you still think that's what you're looking for, you should see if there's no way to find a place where there won't be any damage, no green area reduction. You can tell me here that the Committee on Sustainable Development had a pro-government hearing on this matter on the MSZP initiative, where they said that green roofs would be put on top of the houses and thus maintain the green surface. Obviously, there are such solutions, but functionally this is for families in the capital, families with small children, who should be able to hug wood, have lawns and run, and get down on their knees, this green roof and all these improvements won't be an option. This may have some economic development benefits later, but 150 billion forints will not come back from tourism anytime soon. I understand the intention of cultural development, I share this intention of the government, but not in this way, not by such means, and we cannot support it now. I would like to consider rethinking the idea. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-107	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap now, Your Honour. First, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am very sorry that Congressman Agh has just left because I wanted to answer him, but I hope that you will give it to him. He said the result speaks for itself, let's look at Kossuth Square. Well, in this regard, let me give you a very small example, which concerns Kossuth Square, and which, unfortunately, will be parallel to the fate of City Park. Kossuth tér is state property, and it is given to the Parliamentary Office in its management of assets. So it's not a company, it's the Parliamentary Office that has it in its management of assets. The National Property Act happens to specify which statues should be standing here in Kossuth Square. So, for example, he records that this is the place for the flame of revolution monument. I would like to report to the Secretary of State that there is only the cold place for this memorial because it has disappeared, without a trace. When I asked the Minister responsible for me, László Kövér refused that today, in Hungary, no minister is competent in this regard, i.e. with regard to a state asset, which is placed in asset management. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, That was the answer. I think he's afraid it's going to be the same pace for City Park, which will seal his fate. I wish I didn't. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-109	Another two-minute comment by Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-03-03-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now some thoughts are a little different from what I said in my keynote speech. When the 2015 budget was debated here in Parliament, the LMP said in several cases that it is a urizing budget, there are a number of elements that are not needed now. I don't want to list them all, but I'm sure the Városliget project belongs to the same line as sports facilities, stadiums, and others. Sometimes they say, talk about, mention and talk about sustainable development, unfortunately several times about sustainable economic growth. But I would like to translate: the essence of sustainable development, in simple terms, is to stretch as far as the blanket is concerned. We believe that today Hungary does not have the possibility of spending 150 billion on this. As we know, this cannot be covered by EU funds. The big question is how you are trying to find this HUF 150 billion from non-EU support. I would also like to add that there is a need for context. As my fellow Member has said, we must go to the country. But you don't have to go to the countryside, you just have to see how the number of poor people in Hungary is growing, how nearly 4 million people really live in unbearable, inhumane conditions - and then you think we can afford to spend 150 billion forints on this in the coming years. It's been said, they said you have to go, you have to see what the state of the City Park is like. We're not saying that we don't need to use it to improve ecological status or to museums in distress, but it's not the same as what you want. We are convinced that this is because the government and Viktor Orbán want to move to the Castle. Thank you.
u2015-03-03-111	With all due respect, I'd like to ask you all to respect the time frame according to the house rules. Now we will have speeches asking for a normal word. First, Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2015-03-03-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I am sad to note that some fellow Members are trying to make a difference on this issue in a capital region, although a similar project, regardless of whether a party has a supportive or opposing position, should move towards a national consensus, and should not stress the division of the country in such an issue. I think it is irresponsible what some fellow Members have shown in this regard. It is important to see that, when it comes to the country's tourism developments, Budapest is a tourist destination where 40 percent of tourists arrive, where they spend a significant part of the 1200 billion HUF that foreigners bring to the country, and it goes to the Hungarian economy in this way. So it is particularly important that a new tourist centre should be established in Budapest in addition to the existing ones, because - and here the European Union's development principle is in conflict with practice - the European Union prefers to develop the regions that have fallen apart, and the practice shows that if a tourism development is created in the region that is falling apart, in many cases it can be achieved with far less cost-effectiveness than if this were to happen in Budapest, where tourists are coming anyway. The European Union is therefore not practical in this respect when it devotes Community resources to various economic developments. [[16.50]] For example, Hungary's opportunities for the Liget project have been severely limited. Seven NUTS II units Four NUTS II regions out of the rated region The region is among the 20 poorest regions in Europe in Hungary, and Budapest happens to be much better than that, and unfortunately, it does not come here from a community source. This is something, Mr Secretary of State, that I think it is worth mentioning here, what the source of this enormous Community expenditure can be. Unfortunately, in this respect, the European Union is a very cumbersome, aimless bureaucratic community, which spends development money on the wrong economic principles. You're victims of this, by the way. It is also important to see that when we lost Malév as a national airline, the cultural and gastronomic tourism that was directed to Budapest and the tourism development based on well-paying A marketing status was also carried out in Budapest by Hungarian entrepreneurs, as well as by large international hotel companies. When the Malév fell out, it lost its positive national economic impact. The White Paper, prepared by your ministry on the economic activities of Malév, quantified the positive budgetary impact of this in HUF 70 billion annually. And then Hungary was threatened by a danger that only small-money tourists would come here, as A-status tourists would not visit Budapest in the absence of attractions, and the means of transport and low-cost airlines did not provide them with enough alternatives or suitable alternatives. It is also important to see that, when we talk about the Liget project, this economic development concerns a project that brings about 1 to 1.5 million tourists here annually, at least that is what the estimates for this are about. When it is legitimate for the fellow Members to discuss where the impact studies that are required to be carried out under the legislative law are, where the payback numbers of this project are laid down, I must say that the government has not served this time either. This proposal came in here without these numbers behind it. So the Members, and I must say, this is not the fault of the opposition representatives, do not currently have what the government is counting on to make a return on this. The opposition parties are practically locked away from information at this moment. It is important to see that the creation of new attractions, the creation of a new tourist centre, can be an opportunity for Budapest and the country to really attract new tourists. What is it that I think is particularly important, and I recommend to the government about the Liget project? First of all, if you look at the destinations of tourists, on what basis an average tourist chooses a new country for himself or a new tourist destination, then many times on the basis of photos posted on social image sharing sites, or on the basis of photos posted on Facebook. They see a representative, attractive location, they want to go there, they want to be part of the experience. By the way, this is the cheapest advertisement, as the tourist himself will be the medium of this tourist destination in his own environment, and he is the one who practically promotes Budapest as an advertising medium. I therefore consider it important that the Liget project be implemented in such a way that the photographic capacity of the buildings and the arts and other works exhibited there can be achieved. I mean, they're gonna actually attract a bigger number of foreigners. I also think it is very important that, unfortunately, this government has finally turned the wrong direction in Budapest in 2010, because the right to collect tourist tax has been avoided from the Mayor's Office to the districts, the V. district, Antal Rogán's V. district, has also become the biggest winner of this endeavour, and has pushed Hungarian tourism to the point where everyone wants attraction, but only offers accommodation. And since there is currently no source in the hands of the Budapest municipality to develop attractions, because once again, most of your governments have made sure that they do not, because the districts are stealing the money, especially the V. district, where Antal Rogán mayored before, so there will be no similar new developments, although it would be a great need. It is recalled that when we talk about tourism development in Budapest, it cannot be treated as an isolated project cut off from its surroundings. It is very important that the necessary and related improvements are also made. Budapest is in great need of a reconstruction program in tourist destinations where millions of tourists turn up every year. Take a look at this: Parliament, Chain Bridge, the vicinity of the Castle - thousands of tourists go there every day, and we don't see a broken old building in this environment. Let's be honest, it's a depressing sight. I say, Mr Secretary of State, that it would be worth developing the country market in such a way that the resources of either the Community resource or the growth credit programme can be made available for the renovation of these buildings. Here, I would remind you that, for example, when the Budapest 100 programme took place, the old Art Nouveau buildings of Budapest were presented by enthusiastic monument protectors, architects, how successful this program was, how many foreigners are interested in similar opportunities. Recently, I attended a tourism conference organized by the Chamber, where I performed with several renowned executives. For example, there was Kálmán Dabóczi, the new CEO of the BKK, who outlined forward-looking development ideas in a completely different perspective than his predecessor did, along with much more modern, much more coherent ideas. I also think that the Liget project, if the government is going to do this, could be much more successful. However, there is still one question that I would like to address here, because I see it as unsolved. And if the government is spending a hundred billion dollars on this project, it is also important that I draw attention to this. This is the protection of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises against foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know of a capital where foreign bus companies, foreign tourist agencies can stop in the middle of the city, organize roads here and make it impossible for domestic entrepreneurs in the mother country to sell packages and packages to foreigners, because the foreign travel agency is quite simply organizing the whole thing and practically cannibalizing the country's market. You can see it every morning: you come across from Parliament on the lower quay in Buda, there are hundreds of foreign buses because foreigners take away the market from Hungarian businesses, every detail of a trip, until the tour. What is important for us to say? We need a tourism law that regulates, among other things, who can take part in the guided tour in Hungary. At present, this is not properly regulated, happy-happy as a guide, foreigners come here without knowledge of the place, without willingness to pay taxes, and sell the packages by taking the money home from here, virtually untaxed. Unfortunately, I can say this, and I have a fidesz fellow Member who is now turning his head against me because I have spoken to these entrepreneurs and they have told me the same problems. By the way, if we look around Parliament, we see a number of similar groups here, with similar guides. I also consider it important that, if such a huge investment is made, the government should ensure that it is guaranteed that the depreciation will be replaced, and this should be covered. I would like to remind the Government that there are a number of Community-owned enterprises carrying out quasi-tax economic activities, such as the BKV or MÁV mentioned above, which I can list a number of these which do not replace depreciation. Unfortunately, the asset park is failing in this sense, for example, BKV has an internal debt of HUF 800 billion in the absence of a permanent replacement of depreciation. And I'm afraid that if the legislator doesn't make sure that this big investment is done with adequate financial guarantees to replace depreciation, this project will be there over time in a decade or two. Then the current government, which will then govern the country, will either make up for the money or not, but usually, I have to say, unfortunately, it doesn't end well. Here I ask the government to pay attention to this, to replace depreciation, and to ensure that this is covered financially. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] [[17.00]]
u2015-03-03-113	Thank you very much. Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz, next.
u2015-03-03-114	Dear House, Allow me to comment briefly on this subject, although, in fact, I think we have already discussed the Városliget and the Liget projects several times, this bill is about the necessary procedure, but I would like to draw attention to a few things. There have been comments, and I see that the LMP is now perhaps seeking the role of the most demagogue party, but God, it can. So I feel sorry for the congresswoman who takes the whole project away from the fact that the Prime Minister has to move to the Castle, so then all the museums will be moved and eight museums will be built. I would add that the whole project is very minimal, very minimal compared to the whole, so I actually think that these are delusions, so you need to go to a doctor if you have such delusions. And I'm worried because, by the way, the rightful...
u2015-03-03-115	Congressman, moderate yourself, please. Okay? Put it this way, so you don't insult your only fellow Member. Don't let it out of the engine...
u2015-03-03-116	Okay, I'm sorry about that...
u2015-03-03-117	Good. Apologize and continue.
u2015-03-03-118	... but I think that these are indeed such delusions, as I would like to say that such a move is behind the entire investment, such a concept of a museum quarter, and I think that it is indeed an exaggeration, and if you allow me to say so, then the rest is an exaggeration, so I apologize, but we have been overexaggerating, and this threatens the debate of the whole concept. Because, by the way, I think that protecting the green surface, raising urban development issues are certainly justified, worthy of debate, but if we start arguing in such a tone, we will never really be able to have a sensible debate. I have to mention, I understand that there have been a lot of bad examples here in City Park. The "56" monument and the time wheel, built under the MSZP governments, really strengthens the series of the most controversial works, so there are really bad examples. This is the museum district. I'm pretty sure it's not. I should also add, referring here to the previous comments, that it is not necessarily a good idea to draw a parallel between a development and reservations, although it may, of course, always be a budgetary issue. I think, by the way, that if my fellow Member is concerned about rural museums, rural hospitals, that is correct, but that is precisely where there, with the help of EU funds, extraordinary improvements are taking place, which could also be said. Of course, maintenance, operation is always a problem, it is without doubt, but whoever the maintenance is, there have been extremely serious improvements. So I am not worried that this should be the opposite here, not even because the whole question of the museum district, the issue of the Liget project, is the whole point, and I think that the people who came up with this idea are, after all, not because they should move here or there to offices, because the big projects of a city can only be based on existing values and existing marketing. So if we want more people to come to Budapest, more people to know it, then we need to connect to the existing values, the existing museums. Obviously, it is debatable where these museums should be now, and I do not want to go into this again, but that the concept of a museum quarter is a realistic development concept, since it has been implemented in several cities of the world, it is hardly possible to dispute that. I also accept that you can argue over buildings. I do not want to do this particularly, because in an international, open competition, judges and architects have made their decision, and, of course, they can be debated. The reaction to a better website, I think, if anything other than organic architecture was posted there, it wouldn't be good for those who are up there. So, in itself, I don't necessarily consider this to be an awareness-raising thing. By the way, I am a fan of organic architecture, as the county president I asked Imre Makovecz, but I still don't think that an ethnographic museum can only be home to organic architecture or a building of this kind. In any case, these criticisms, I think, should be considered, and I, as a Member, am glad that the government and governmental bodies will continue to take these architectural criticisms into account, because these are realistic and real debates. I think where a building belongs, about the location of the Architectural Museum, the Ethnographic Museum, there are really controversial questions, and I think that can be discussed calmly. I trust that there are those who manage the investments and that they will be able to manage them in the best possible way. As far as the information is concerned, let me add that to my fellow Member who missed it. I am sure that it is always possible to dispute the depth of the information and to analyse the return calculations as deeply as possible, but there is a publicly available website where this information can be accessed, so that the buildings are exactly listed, the whole principle of return is exactly listed. As I said, and I would turn back here, the reason why I would not contradict this is because of the social problems in Hungary, the problems that exist either in the sector or within the museum sector, because obviously the essence of this project is that it should be a profitable project, in a closer sense and for the whole country, and I think it is worth supporting. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-03-119	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, everyone will be given the floor, and those who have spoken several times to the debate, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if they have a new idea, a new message, then let them say that once again, the same thing we have already heard is unnecessary. This will lead to a normal word being asked by Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP.
u2015-03-03-120	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will change not only in content but also in style, because I very much like the way that Congressman Volner says things with such a slow, calm speech, and I would very much like to be so slow and calm. I say with a slow calmness that I do not wish to cause any conflict between the Hungarian countryside and the capital. I am committed to the development of the capital, and I very much hope that after Reagan, Elvis and Columbo there will be a Kojak statue soon, and that is what I am trying to do. So there is no such thing as that, I was only trying to draw attention to the social inequality that characterizes Hungarian development policy, and the government activities that have also characterized the past 15 years, when we talk about tourism or cultural developments, this appears unevenly throughout the country. God forbid I create any kind of conflict, I'm just saying that if there is a certain source that we don't know where it comes from, we haven't yet received an answer as to where the 150 billion, where it comes from, EU funds, priority projects, government resources, tax revenues, but if there is one, then it would be wise to start a broader thinking on this useful use. Mr Volner has spoken about tourism development for a long time, which is also a very, very interesting topic, especially since this is a regular argument for full development, but I also wonder if, if the argument that much of the Hungarian tourist nights fall on the capital, this is why there is a reason for improvements that recreate tourism nighttimes and thus help economic revenues, then whether it is not a self-exciting process, because it could not be that, instead of the often thoughtless tourist developments that have been made in the last decades around the country, there is a reason to mention the development of the beach in medicinal tourism, where accommodation in one place has not been given access to more medicinal tourism, and accommodation in the other place has been built without tourist attraction, so that we can invest resources on them and thus, perhaps help to preserve and create rural jobs through tourism. I wanted to respond to that. After that, I wanted to say with the title of the most demagogue party that I did not intend in any way, but, in addition to every such government effort, we are obviously looking for the intention of what motivates the government to make this decision. It is clear here that my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck gave his own opinion. I think these great developments are simply good because this is how you steal big money from the construction, but obviously you can hear a lot in addition to motivation, only those that are said are not entirely convincing. As a typical example, if the Secretary of State may honor us by taking part in the debate and presenting the calculations of 150 billion iks with new jobs in the capital with a payback time, we may consider our fate as wise opponents, and perhaps we will think that this is the business of the century, of course, after Paks, and then we will support this, if we are convinced. [[17.10]] But if we don't get information about what it's made of, how it's going to create jobs, when it's going to pay off, then there will be doubts and the terrible, terrible things about our fantasy about what's behind this development. This requires the Secretary of State to take part in the debate and, with a mutual dialogue, we will explore points which are not clear to the opposition, so I would like to ask Mr State Secretary with great respect, in a calm voice. However, I apologize once again if any of my comments were previously misunderstood. I am committed to cultural tourism and cultural development, I just wanted to share the concerns that arise from the unequal use and development of resources in the country, and I wanted the government to know these aspects. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2015-03-03-121	Thank you very much. Two-minute comment, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik.
u2015-03-03-122	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let me give a brief answer to my fellow Member Manninger. So what made it an excuse was that I was on my Facebook page proclaiming a little referendum about who liked what. He said that on the better side, the visitors must like organic buildings only. Let me tell you that the folk art museum in Kossuth Square, the great work of Alajos Hauszmann, is an eclectic building in historical style, which was built in 1896, so it is not an organic building, apart from that, it is a beautiful building; unlike the French young colleague who tried to imagine the folk art of an exotic country, Hungary, in a wing effort, and has succeeded in quite a nerd form. What God does, the common taste that is reflected on a better-looking Facebook page, says that the current Museum of Folk Art is a version of Hauszmann's Alajos, which is actually not designed for a museum, for another building, but in any case it still pleases the Hungarian people, the poor people more than this French version. So, believe me, my dear fellow Member, if anyone, say, to Calvin Square, to the glass palaces in Calvin Square, says that it is ugly, it is a criticism dictated by common taste. Unfortunately, there is one, and I must say, and Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to reconsider this call for competition, this proposal, not to declare a result in such a way that it is irrevocable, because these works are inoperable. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-03-03-123	You always have hope, and then you face reality. I will therefore give the floor to MEP László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, for a two-minute speech.
u2015-03-03-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just to think for a few minutes why my fellow Member Sallai may have such malicious thoughts about the project. Obviously, it would have been helpful if you hadn't put in a bill in 2013 to hide its true purpose, and then, in the course of the implementation of the project, you would have consulted the people you need, whether the municipality or the civil society organisations or anyone involved. In this case, we could have saved these assumptions, because in the event that you would not normally be playing with open cards, and indeed this investment is prepared in a way in which you can engage in discussions of the quality or content that my fellow Member Manninger has said here, I think it is right, in which case it would have obviously been possible to convince many people that this is a well-meaning, well-meaning initiative, even though you do not agree with it. However, these forms seriously hinder this case. I would also like to express my hope that in a few weeks or months' time, we will also be able to discuss what you have long promised on the island of Shipyard how to make the museum investment that everyone would like, in principle, as opposed to the presentation here, even the residents. But that's what's in front of us now. I wish to you that these negotiations are not too late. You can talk about, of course, a nice structure, just the profession and everyone thinks it's ugly. So, in fact, such disputes are clearly possible to conduct pro and versus. I think that in the event that you had not gone your own way, but that the project would have taken place in a normal legislative process, everyone would have been ahead. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-125	Thank you. Congressman Manninger, is it important?
u2015-03-03-126	Yes, thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-127	Then it's up to you.
u2015-03-03-128	Briefly, very briefly. I did not object to anyone doing a poll, let me answer the congresswoman, and I do not object to her having a different opinion, of course. By the way, a good building can be good in itself, as long as we're at Calvin Square, but it's in the wrong place, so that's possible, and we agree. So I think that these are debates that still need to be held and that what can be done really needs to be corrected. So it's possible to talk about it, but I'm just saying that maybe I wouldn't want to talk about it on the basis of a website or my own website. It is obvious that here, primarily on the basis of the views of architects and city developers, I think that these issues can be resolved by involving them. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-129	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask you quickly if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No one wants to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. So I will give the floor to Mr Secretary of State after we have recorded that no one has made contact, and I will conclude the general debate. Mr. Secretary, I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of 30 minutes, but you have no obligation to exhaust this. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the end of a very exciting debate. Allow me to thank you all for your active participation in today's legislative amendment debate. I should do this despite the fact that it is obvious that the speeches, depending on whether they came from a government direction or from a opposition direction, were supporters or opposers. Even if opposition speeches can be classified into different groups, I do so. Allow me to make my own classification known to you quickly. There were some of them that brought gifts in the way of folk tales, and they didn't. There were some that said silly things. There were also yelling nonsense when I was trying to bring that term here, and there were deliberate slides. I've been taking notes of these for a while, but I don't want to abuse their patience, so I'm not going to take every step of the way, react to everything. First of all, I would like to thank you for giving us a great deal of proposals worth considering, which I will certainly forward to myself and to the portfolio and to the Secretary-General of the Minister responsible for monitoring the progress of the Liget project. Thank you very much for your positive contributions and suggestions, many of which I think are worth considering. However, allow me to present you with some clarification questions. Of these, if I am going backwards in order of time, the question that concerns the problem of green surfaces has been raised several times, even though, Mr President, asking for permission, since the proposal itself is not essentially about the original debate of the Liget Budapest project law, but since, in substance, many of these questions have been raised, I should also respond to such issues, while, in the first instance, let me say that there may have been only one question on the issue of the actual amendment or on behalf of Mrs Hegedűs, and much earlier questions have been raised here. So what concerns the recurring question is that the size of the green surfaces is shrinking or increasing, on this issue the nonsense that 93,000 square meters of extra buildings are being created in Hungary was obviously a comment, so I can say this as a comment to MEP László Kiss. [[17.20]] However, the growth of green surfaces is a matter of fact. And the fact that the percentage of the urban green surface will increase from 60 per cent to 65 per cent, to the exact extent that this is a question that we are talking about in the debate, from opposition speakers, is that we are talking here about 100 hectares of land when we are talking about the action area of the Liget project, to the extent that we are talking about 100 hectares, and we are going to increase the green surface by 5 per cent, that is to say, 50 thousand square metres of green surface growth, honourable Members. Can you imagine that 50,000 square meters of green surface can be achieved by wooding the top of the five new buildings and planting them with grass? It can't be achieved. So I would ask you, with all due respect, for patience and tranquility, to see when the project comes to the stage where you will see the real green surface growth, as this well-meaning mistake, or a bad intention slip, will cost you your normal bear, when it becomes apparent that you will grow by 5 hectares for the benefit of the people of Budapest, for the benefit of the people there and for the benefit of those who wish to visit it, the amount of green surface within the framework of the Liget project. Allow me also to respond to the speech by Mr Sallai, on behalf of the LMP, to sum us up, trying to adopt us as an anti-rural government. It would be good for the honourable opposition to decide whether the government is anti-rural or anti-Budapest [[Sallai R. Benedict: Both! This one, that one!]] 'Cause sometimes they say that, sometimes they say that. On the other hand, I think that if you look at the developments that have taken place in Hungary over the last five years, honourable Member - because you have spoken to me, so I say to you, if you do honor me, I thank you - if you go through the country, and if you do this to your children - I do the same, as a permanent country, and my family lives in the countryside, we are from Pécs, and we are from the country, as you have; if you have been going through Hungary over the past period, I think you have seen with maximum closed eyes that the countryside has not progressed. Fantastic progress has been made, big investments, big improvements. The main squares, the entrance roads to the cities, have been renewed. At last, old buildings and museums shine in new glory, and new objects have been created so as not to include medicinal tourism and water opportunities. So what I can say to you is to reassure you that the civilian government is very careful that the rural-Budapest balance prevails. Finally, there is a government that thinks with the head of the countryside, and has made very significant and strong rural developments in recent years, and we intend to continue this direction in the future. But we cannot neglect Budapest even if Budapest, as the capital of the country or nation, does not receive a direct EU development resource in the new EU cycle. No government can do this, nor can the third Orbán government do that it does not make any improvements in Budapest, even if we do not receive money from Brussels. So my answer to your question, to the question of many of you, is what will become the HUF 100 or HUF 150 billion you mentioned in order to continue the Liget Budapest programme, and I have the answer that can be found not from the government's numbers, but from the figures of the Hungarian statistical office, but from Eurostat data that proves that the performance of the Hungarian economy is in the top three places of the 28 European Member States. If we are confident that this trend can continue, then we can trust that the ability of the Hungarian economy to make the money that is needed to develop not only the countryside, but also the capital, in the absence of EU funds. I'm in a trusting position on this, against you. But I very much hope that, in time, you will be able to take over not only Brussels, but also you, in view of the numbers. So against you, as this sentence has been said, the idea that you are not happy that the Hungarian state is spending on this, I am glad, because we are spending on an outstanding cultural development and investment. I am also pleased to say that in the last four years there has been an unprecedented increase in cultural infrastructure in Hungary. The second Orbán government undertook to renovate objects, touch cultural tops, renovate them, restore them in their original glory, such as the Várbazár [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] , such as the Pesti Vigadó, or like the whole new building, the Budapest Music Center. But let me also say, my fellow socialists, that if you have already discussed in my speech that I should also refer to the developments of our fellow Member, who has been chaired by me, at the time of the ministership of István Hiller, that the contract of the Liszt Academy was signed, its renewal, the Orbán government has completed this development, and the development of the Castle of Fertőd may have started even during the previous period of government. And, well, the Orbán government has not only completed this, but has expanded this program to new objects. I think that this is a national interest, this is a very important interest of the entire national economy, to move forward in the area of cultural development, the cultural industry and the strengthening of cultural tourism. The Orbán government has taken on more than our predecessors, and we are proud to take on this surplus. And I am very pleased to be working today in a government that has new plans and outlines new cultural developments for the benefit of the Hungarian people and for the development of the economy. So in this respect, I believe that we are in consensus that this development is in the interests of the Hungarian people and serves the Hungarian economy. It was a real and good thought from my fellow Member, Volner, who indicated that the possibility of depreciation should also be considered whether these new objects, in fact, in 40 years' time, will not cause a problem of renovation for the state leaders who would then follow us. Yes, I have referred to these, when Mr President was not in the Chamber, that these proposals really need to be considered and incorporated into the programme. As regards the statements that the government is committing a crime, I would like to respectfully recommend to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs that she press charges, if that is the case. I do not believe in what you are saying, and your words have been dwindled by Sebestyén Vágó's fellow party, who... - unlike your inappropriate use of words, that he mentioned a folk art museum five times, there is a Museum of Ethnography in Budapest, and a Museum of Ethnography is also established within the Liget. Sebestyén Csító also gave you the answer for me when he said that this building was indeed built in Kossuth Square for the Curia, and if he gets his original function back, it is likely that the symbol of the dual power of lawmaking and justice can also be found in the national square. I think it's a good direction. And to find the right buildings for the museums that exist today in the Liget, allow me to make a more modest statement. I wouldn't dare take the right to call lay citizens to value judgment on an architectural academic issue even on an Internet site. Just as I wouldn't dare say, in accordance with my degree, on any matter of music history or musical art, a judgment of value that seems inexplicable. In my opinion, the architect profession considers it important that at an international design contest, where two or three of the world's top ten star architects have submitted plans for projects in Budapest, that these offices, who have created fantastic new objects in the world, are applying for Budapest. They're happy to be part of the program. In addition, the jury will rate these plans anonymously, and there will be a consensus on which plans should be implemented. I wouldn't dare ask for a review on a Facebook page. I wouldn't think that time would stand the test of what [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: National consultation...]] "Laicians can make the right decision instead of the international profession. Such debates, which you mention, should also go back to the relevant issues of the press in Budapest and Hungary around 1896; the press was swarming with what the leaders of your time thought to disfigure the city, to build such a structure, to build such unsettling buildings, which today you referred to here as national topsies, proud patriots, in your speeches. [[17 .30]] Then, 100 years ago, 120 years ago, there was a huge debate surrounding these investments, the same debate as today's investment. I trust that, as an eternal optimist, these buildings or this development, this project, will be referred to as an example of the future after us. I am very confident, because I see that, in the framework of a fair selection and fair tendering system, professionals want to make the best of this for the people of Budapest, the Hungarian people and tourists, which is the goal. And to answer a few more things. The fundamental right to a healthy environment has been mentioned by my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, and that the damage to these rights may even be unconstitutional. I just answered that if the green surface grows by 50,000 square meters, it doesn't just go against the constitution, but I think everyone who lives in the neighborhood and the person who will come here will be happy. So you're on the wrong track, Congresswoman, and allow me, in contrast to your many, many, many picnic remarks, just one in my direction. When I hear from the LMP lines that when they govern, they do it differently, and they wonder why we put museums in the hands of local governments. There are many municipalities, there are many municipalities led by our Fidesz friends, and they were pleased to say that it was extremely important for them to have the museums managed and not to be managed by a power abstracted from them. Local authorities are pleased; if they cooperate and consult with them, they can learn this even if they may be called Fidesz municipalities. They are pleased that museums have finally been managed and maintained by cities with county rights, and I think that this is a good direction, because - Mr Manninger has indicated - the allocation of funds has finally become much more intense and these centres are being renewed in a row. So, contrary to your constitutional concerns or your fear of constitutional law, I am also confident that we are making progress here. I do not wish to respond to the Regnum Marianum issue. These sentences, allow me to leave them elegantly beside my ears, so that Mátyás Rákosi will inherit the legacy of the current government; I do not wish to respond to such nonsense. However, where the buildings are built, with a few more details, let me serve you, even if it is not the subject of the proposal. The old building of the Petőfi Hall and some slimy buildings are now being demolished, which can actually be considered as brownfield projects. So if the broken storage facilities are broken down, they will be demolished, and in their place they will be modern, XXI. It's a community space for a century. Who doesn't like it? I'm asking you to help me understand this. So you're screaming wolf, while I think there are brownfield elements to this investment, we're about to replace lousy old buildings with new ones, as many have already done in Germany, let's say, with regard to the Ruhr region. Today, under the leadership of the Hungarian State Opera House, we have held a press conference of great interest at the former northern locomotive repair facility, Kőbányai út No. 30, where the government intends to establish after 130 years the base of the Hungarian State Opera House in the five-ship, huge Eiffel Hall - a hall of more than two hectares - and we create the workshop centre, the test site and the base that the Vienna Opera House has, Berlin has, Prague has, and Budapest hasn't had so far. And what are we doing there? From an abandoned, bad, lousy, crumbling hall, we create a cultural space. This is a European trend, done 20-30 years before us in many mining areas and abandoned industrial zones. Actually, that's gonna happen a little bit here, too. If you ask us why we are not investing in brownfields, then I can say to you that, yes, there are brownfield elements of this investment according to and according to your needs and expectations. Finally, cultural tourism. Yes, I can tell Mr Jenő Manninger that this is a prepared programme and ongoing investment and that the introduction of foreign examples was entirely adequate. So what we would like to see is that this particular Viennese and Berlin-Chicago is no longer an excuse, but if the Viennese and Berlin example could only get into the shadow of the development in Budapest, then we can reach the long-term plan or approach to putting Budapest on the European map of the festival, the tourist map and the cultural map. That is why the government also intended to strengthen the Spring Festival in Budapest, put it on more feet, and turn it into a truly large multicultural festival, to which migration from Europe has now started, and I don't know, we are already over the fourth decade in terms of the BTF, but this has also strengthened the tourist face and cultural face of Budapest. So any such thinking, which complements the Budapest Liget project, is all trying to serve as a more intensive economic development factor for Hungary's capital, the country and the region, the European region, to attract as many tourists from abroad as possible, who bring more and more tax revenues to Hungary by increasing the number of guest nights. This development, this investment that serves the Hungarian people and this economic goal, I think it will certainly point to the future. As regards the substantive transformation, as regards the extension of the trust rights to real estate, I think that we have not only something to fear but also a positive progress in the programme, as this will speed up the implementation of the land administration procedure, and the deadlines and obligations entered into in the programme will be ensured by the readiness of the co-ordinated state resources. I would like to thank you once again for your constructive criticism, comments and suggestions, and for their many, many proposals or questions or problems for 2013, which were raised as ideas that were appropriate and appropriate for the debate of the original law, but have now seemed obsolete. I hope that my answer may have made you feel the anachronism of these things. Allow me to quote one of the uplifting moments of this festive occasion here to conclude. When you tried to judge the Liget project as an outdated record and put it in the crossfire of criticisms that we had already passed, I remembered the idea of János Arany in the interpretation of an actor in the square. In Loneliness, I quote two beautiful lines of the poem: "And the tide of time does not flow back, / It swells infinitely. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-03-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday 5 March at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 77/2011 on the National Energy Strategy. general discussion of the proposal for a decision amending the parliamentary decision until closure. The submission is H/3409. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The national energy strategy should therefore always have appropriate data in order to develop real and forward-looking policy objectives, the energy strategy for Hungary's energy planning, the basic document for the definition of sectoral targets. In order to ensure this, the decision on a national energy strategy adopted by the Parliament in 2011 required the Government to evaluate the implementation of energy policy at least every two years and, if necessary, to make proposals to adapt the energy strategy. [[17.40]] As a result of the evaluation work carried out on this request in the Parliamentary Decision, it has become apparent that the primary energy consumption forecasts of the national energy strategy adopted in 2011 are no longer relevant. The projections of the strategy for 2020 and 2030 were based on energy consumption data in the early stages of the economic crisis from 2008 to 2010 and on medium-term economic and industry expectations at that time. However, actual energy consumption was lower than expected. The 2012 figures show 992 peajoule primary energy consumption, which represents a reduction in primary energy demand by 12% compared to the baseline national energy strategy of 1126 peajoules in 2008. In view of the known data and the Commission's view that the existing energy consumption forecast is also correct, the government considers it necessary to clarify the energy use path of the energy strategy. The national energy strategy's primary energy consumption projections for 2020 and 2030 are based on the setting of targets for a number of energy plan documents that need to be prepared and reviewed under our EU obligations. The strategy forecasts are annexed to the Parliamentary Decision to be amended, and their update therefore requires that the decision be amended. However, the amendment of the regular parliamentary decision is not a sufficiently flexible instrument for the update of the forecasts to take place within a short period of time, and it is also unnecessarily burdensome for the work of the Parliament. This poses a significant risk to the completion of the preparation and review of related strategies, action plans and other government programmes within the deadline set by the Commission. The purpose of the amendment of the National Energy Strategy Parliamentary Decision is to enable the Government, under the mandate of the Parliament, to update the forecasts of the primary energy use contained in the decision in its own power, thereby creating the possibility of creating a flexible planning workflow that does not jeopardise the future fulfilment of EU obligations. The changes in the projections figures alone do not necessarily justify a change in the national energy strategy's target and asset system, so their change does not fundamentally affect the competence of Parliament. Dear Parliament, The proposal for a decision before you will serve to make the workflow of energy policy planning more flexible and to ensure better monitoring of policy change. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the resolution proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-03-133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On the basis of point 4 (v) of the Parliamentary Decision No 77/2011 on a national energy strategy, the Parliament invites the Government to draw up, at least every two years, information on the implementation of energy policy and its consistency with the fields of competence set out in point 2 (b) of the Parliament's Parliamentary Committee, and, if there are changes in the energy policy conditionality, to make proposals to adapt the energy strategy at the same time. As a result of the review necessary for the preparation of the prospectus, it is necessary to update the forecast of the national energy strategy as soon as possible to provide the appropriate basis for the government's energy-related planning and targets. In view of the fact that the national energy strategy forecasts are annexed to the Parliamentary Decision, their updating makes it necessary to amend the parliamentary decision. In the future, in order to ensure a more efficient implementation of updates and the continued applicability of new forecasts, the updated forecasts should be published by the government in a decision in the future. The change in the forecasts does not in itself justify changing the national energy strategy's target and instrument system, as we are not proposing in this decision. On this basis, the purpose of the amendment of the Parliamentary Decision on the National Energy Strategy is to allow the Government to update the forecasts of the primary energy use contained in the decision on the basis of the mandate of the Parliament and to propose amendments to the decision. On the basis of the above, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the resolution proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-03-03-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! We agree that it is very far from reality in the numbers and objectives and systems of the energy strategy, so it would be justified in this decision, in the decision which adopted this energy strategy, to report on the implementation of this strategy before Parliament's committees and before Parliament and to adapt this energy strategy to reality. In comparison, this deadline expired last year, since the Parliament adopted this energy strategy on 3 October 2011 and should have been reported in 2013 - this did not happen. However, we do not agree that you are now taking certain measures into the hands of the government and taking them away from the Parliament. It would be justified for the National Assembly to discuss the implementation of the energy strategy, to be informed that the basic data from which the energy strategy was based have changed, and that the National Assembly would amend the energy strategy or its decision in which it accepted what was close to reality, since this energy strategy adopted in 2011 is counting on other data regarding the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This energy strategy, as I said, is far from realization and reality, as our energy independence has not decreased, but has increased, as the country's imports and imports of electricity have increased dramatically, the domestic power plants have either ceased or are producing at a very low level. We can see that, on the basis of the events of the previous weeks and months, the diversification of our gas supply also shows a very low level, since the Hungarian-Slovak connection has been completed, but it has not been able to be put into service for two years, the two years has been an objective. Thus, many of the objectives included in the energy strategy have not been achieved. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, the objective of modernising buildings in energy has not been met, since renovation of buildings or building insulation programmes have not been working for years, and very little money is coming into this. In fact, now that the government is authorised to record the various data in a decision, it will review it every two years, so that the evolution of this energy strategy and its adaptation to reality will not be discussed before the Parliament. [[17.50]] In view of the fact that the European Commission has now decided on the issue of the Energy Union, which affects many, many areas within the European Union, and it is certainly worth discussing the objectives and different areas in this regard before the Parliament. So summa summarum, we cannot support the bill, since it takes away from the Parliament the opportunity, the power to shape the energy strategy here in this House by hearing the opinions of Members or opposition representatives. We are not informed about changes in data and changes in objectives, so it actually saves the government the work to account here in Parliament for the implementation of the energy strategy. But no wonder, because one of the biggest energy investments has now been encrypted for 30 years today. So we can't discuss this in public here. You believe that we must fight our battles in court to obtain different information. But that means they don't want to cause debate in any other area here at the National Assembly. I very much hope that it is not because it is new secrets that you do not want to share here with Members or with the general public. So we cannot support the proposal. We would much rather have a dialogue-based consultation, debate and acceptance of the energy strategy. This would be in Hungary's interest, and this bill is not for this purpose. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2015-03-03-137	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since I see that the KDNP did not wish to set up a keynote speaker, the word belongs to Congressman Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-03-03-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that a permanent staff is starting to emerge here in Parliament from the various political groups, who are speaking to energy and energy issues, which is not a problem, because at least there is a debate on this issue, which is not the case for many other subjects. This is where substantive debates can be held. It often takes me a little too far from the subject, but I think that this is okay, because the energy strategy is one of the strategic sectors of Hungarian political life and internal politics that definitely deserves this kind of attention in plenary as well. As far as the proposal before us is concerned, we do not really consider it a matter of so great importance to discuss it for hours, and we can also support it, but we are going to submit an improved amendment to it with my fellow Member, János Volner, in order to make the review and evaluation of the energy strategy itself even more frequent. The support can be added to the proposal because the proposal itself puts it this way, and I do not know whether my MSZP fellow Member misunderstood it, or I misinterpret that the background institutions behind the government or the government are preparing a review of the implementation of this energy strategy and submitting it to the task and competent committee of the Parliament, and this Parliament committee will discuss it and approve it - or not approve - and this will be incorporated into the amended version of the energy strategy. There are several points in the proposal for a decision on the adoption of an energy strategy, which is worth looking at when the amendment of the energy strategy to Parliament I is before the plenary session. All we have to do is look at it. It wanted a change of approach and structure at the time, in 2011, when it was adopted, to implement this document in the field of energy policy. The clues of this change of approach and structure may be discovered, but we do not experience such a truly elementary, traumatic change of approach and structure, unfortunately, not in the area of domestic energy policy. The second is the priority of energy efficiency and energy saving, which remains to be expected. We do not see that the government would devote enough energy to trying to reduce Hungary's primary energy use with energy efficiency. Although Mr Secretary of State here in his introductory exposé he spoke of a 12 percent primary reduction in energy, but this was rather the result of the economic crisis, I think, rather than about the energy efficiency investments of users, consumers, because the proposals for this are extremely small and, if there are any, they are very quickly exhausted. Whether it is the replacement of household appliances or the insulation of windows or buildings, funds and subsidies of a magnitude greater than the current one should be used. This is often said here in Parliament that there are also economical and job-creating aspects of this, it is a fact and a fact, regardless of whether any party says it, that is still true, as these are facts. Maintaining the share of domestic resources. Well, it's another question mark in the energy strategy that really deserves to think about, but we don't know how the government imagines it when the last underground coal mine in Hungary is closed. And while it is planned to issue a concession or perhaps even to open an underground coal mine, which is obvious that years later it will perhaps come about, we do not know the scale and how, but the fact that the Markushegy coal mine closed on 31 December, which played a significant role in maintaining the share of domestic resources, at least as far as fossil fuels are concerned. Of course, we know the problems, the low efficiency of the Vértes Power Plant and its uneconomical operation, regardless of which we believe - as I myself have said several hundred times in the Parliament since 2010, or, if not hundreds of times, but several times - this coal mine should not have been closed, but rather the rational use of coal mined should have been sought. And until December 31st, the power plant will continue to operate with imported coal. I don't think that's a very logical and reasonable decision. Indeed, it could have been extended to keep the mine open and to maintain hundreds of jobs at least until then. Then purchasing routes and resource diversification were also a key element of the energy strategy at the time of adoption. This has now been particularly emphasised in the area of gas supply. We do not see much of this, nor in the area of purchasing routes, especially the diversification of resources. For the time being, we have not even succeeded in ensuring that our gas pipelines related to neighbouring countries can be properly bidirectional, as I said in yesterday's debate on the gas law. This should be very sought out, because we are on the verge of time, and as natural gas becomes increasingly the theme and instrument of geopolitical games, domestic supply is increasingly at risk. But yesterday, I think I've said enough, I don't want to be more specific. The attractive investor environment is another point in the energy strategy. I don't really see anyone applying today as an investor in Hungary to build a power plant. Our own power plants continue to reach the age when their planned schedule of closure occurs and we do not see these capacity losses being replaced in any way. It is not worth investing in fossil, renewable or gas-powered power plants either, as the existing ones are largely present during a significant period of the year, as the price of natural gas electricity is more expensive than that which can be covered by imports. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So in this respect, even relatively modern, high-efficiency power plants do not work. So who would invest, who would put more money into building a power plant? Of course, you could say now, obviously you will say the investment in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant as the largest investment in Hungary in recent decades. Of course, this is about replacing existing blocks in the long term, not creating new capacity, even if there is a certain increase in power plant capacity. So we have to make up for thousands of megawatts of capacity falling out of the 20-year horizon, otherwise energy supply problems arise, or our import share increases to a level that is already seriously endangering domestic security of supply, or exposes us to an exposure that brings about an unacceptable increase in our dependence. [[18.00]] Technically, these are the points that I would have just highlighted, only randomly, from the energy strategy that the government adopted in 2011, and what is really important now before Parliament is that we update, comment and update these performances every two years in terms of primary energy consumption or other figures, adapted to current consumer habits. However, the strategy itself, as an objective, which will run until 2030 and with an outlook for 2050, is that, if its foundations are already shaking and the fundamentals are not in line with reality, it is worth thinking about or rethinking the entire energy strategy if the government does not think seriously about what was included in this strategy four years ago, or even with the legislative environment, investment promotion and other means, it should help the government to achieve its energy strategy even more effectively. However, as I said at the beginning, and I will conclude with this, this proposal, which is a step in eliminating the mistakes of the energy strategy, we can support it at the same time as presenting our improving proposal. We hope that this will be adopted on the part of the governing parties. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. From the LMP Group, Mr Sallai R. Benedek will give the keynote speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, During today, I have been reprimanded several times that I am not fully in favour of government efforts, so now I urge the governing parties and the government to bring a lot of things in front of us that can be accepted, and then there will be no opposition between us. Overall, our party believes that it can be allowed to do so, and that it does not have to go through with it, because it is certainly a funny thing that the two-thirds Orbán government creates an energy strategy for itself, so that no one can influence it, no one can disturb it, no one will be able to comply with its own commitments, and there is a need for deadlines there, and that if you already recognize it, then there is no big problem with this, let it be possible to make a change. In any case, we would like to say that in the energy strategy, let me say the five most important pillars that we highlight.1. Enhancing energy saving and energy efficiency. It's an important thing. The government described it, said that it thought it was important, but Hungary is one of the last in Europe during the rezsifight, who spent the least on it, and unfortunately, the rezsifight resulted in a reduction in real costs when we would use less energy and make less money, but we would have to pay less for the same energy we used. This would obviously be a commendable effort, but it would be even more useful if this effort of the energy strategy had perhaps been accompanied by substantial steps, because this point, which would increase energy saving and efficiency, could indeed be a desirable effort for the government, which, unfortunately, we do not consider sufficient government efforts. In point 2, it was important to increase the share of renewable energies. Obviously, because of the commitments made here in the European Union, it would be good if we could do better in this, too. The use of wind energy is stagnant, as we know, since 2010 no licences have been issued for wind power plant construction, solar cells are located in only 15-20 thousand households, but sometimes the government imposes penalty taxes on solar energy, heat pumps, as it did with the product tax this year, so there is something to be done about this. Point 3 of the energy strategy, which was important for us: the integration of the Central European pipeline and the development of the necessary cross-border capacity. This was what we have often said in the nuclear debate, that when the government promises us that it will develop nuclear energy and renewables in parallel, this is, among other things, the pipeline network, which will not be able to handle both, as far as we know, and that if a significant part of the resources are tied down by the need for development of the energy supply from Paks, the potential of the renewable energy sector will certainly be reduced. It was part of this, unfortunately, to our sadness, to preserve the current capacity of nuclear power. This is where we see progress, regrettably; and in the environmentally friendly use of domestic coal and lignite assets and in electricity production. Overall, we see that of these, which would be sympathetic and desirable to the LMP, such as points 1 and 2, in the energy strategy, there is relatively little government resources for that, there is little government will. But if our vote will help the government to pay at least theoretical attention to this and start the efforts to continue the ruckus to reduce the rate of use in households and simply pay households less, this will certainly be an opportunity to provide support. We think that there is no problem with that change, because we have never been able to hit the future energy demand, governments have typically overestimated the expected consumption and have adapted their plans to these excessive estimates. And it is at least as common that the update will not address the problems that clearly arise in relation to the 2030 energy strategy. We would like to continue to ask the government, Mr Secretary of State, that if efforts were to be made in the direction of making Hungary's energy-saving improvements and energy efficiency improvements as effective as possible, we should rethink our energy strategy, then let us look at what Hungarian households would need. We would like to ask that all Hungarian rural houses should be isolated, and that the building engineering development be carried out, as my better fellow Member said, that the windows should be replaced. Let's do this with public buildings, turn all the public lighting into lumber, and if we've made all these improvements, let's look at the energy demand that we're looking for right now. Our action is discussing this proposal and does not see it impossible to support it. We hope that this will provide an opportunity to increase the share of energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent Members to speak, but at the moment there is no independent Member in this Chamber. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Mr László Varga, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the keynote speeches have been made, and not surprisingly I agree with the chief speaker of the MSZP, Bertalan Tóth, that Parliament, the committees, would have had to undertake additional work on this issue, and the government would have had an obligation to report every two years before the Parliament on the energy strategy in question on the basic data, numbers and changes. I suggest that we all don't save this job for the National Assembly. We have come from many places, from several parts of the country, and as a local representative or from one county, there are obviously many aspects that can determine our vision of the energy strategy. If the figures have changed, if there is a new situation, a new basic strategy is actually needed, then it would be good to sum up and synthesize this diversity of views here in front of Parliament, and probably these are not necessarily party policy issues, but rather strategic issues of one country, one county, one area. I am also saying this because, as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, there have been new, unexpected developments and effective developments in the region, such as the management of district heating of Avas, a whole housing site in relation to geothermal energy, which could generate significant savings if appropriate legislation were available. Therefore, the cost of district heating for Avas could also be substantially reduced. However, I always refer, for example, to the question of the coal basin in Borsodi, which also raises the need for clean coal technologies. So these are all issues which, I think, the Parliament could discuss, could add new, innovative ideas to this basic strategy. The two-year report as an obligation on the part of the government is on the table, but I suggest that the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, should not save their opinion on Hungary's energy strategy. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Volner, from the Jobbik Group, has applied for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.10]]
u2015-03-03-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the proposal before us is that every two years the energy strategy forecasts for energy use should be reviewed and expressed. On the one hand, I think it is appropriate to shorten this period, and on the other hand, as my fellow Member Lajos Kepli said, it would be worth examining the implementation of the energy strategy, since it is important that we adopt a strategy, it is fulfilled, it is not fulfilled or to what extent it is achieved. The right-wing proposal will be submitted to Parliament within minutes. It is important to see why it is worth giving an opinion on the energy strategy two years earlier and to formulate a proposal for this to the parliamentary parties. I'd like to remind you of a few points. World political conflicts regularly take place around energy sources and their possession, fighting these conflicts with military force more than once, so it is not even a simple economic conflict. It is enough to think only of the current situation in Ukraine: how seriously the whole European Union is affected by the gas issue in the context of the Ukrainian conflict. It is understandable that it is worth consulting on this much more often, even on the parliamentary stage, and finding opportunities for cooperation together, preferably within the framework of a genuine national consensus. It is recalled that last year's scandal was one of the top 10 taxpayers in Hungary, the MET group, the natural gas company that was formed from business circles close to the government, and gained a record profit by practically helping this company with government tools. Of course, we would like to clarify, along with the energy strategy and other laws governing the profession, how this case could have happened on the one hand and, on the other hand, we better Members would like to create the legal guarantees to exclude the occurrence of similar cases in the future. It is important to see what obstacles and obstacles to the current efforts when it comes to energy market diversification, in particular the natural gas market. It is recalled that the Eustream gas pipeline from the direction of Slovakia to Hungary is a gas pipeline whose construction, according to the Slovak newspaper Smer, was stopped for a short time by Viktor Orbán. However, the government has repeatedly denied this, we do not know what the truth is, but we would like to find out on the parliamentary stage, and we would like to talk about this issue. We are talking about an investment in which we want to see clearly why it is stalling, why it is not happening and why this investment is going so circumstantial. In the last parliamentary term, the Parliament decided on the Adriatic gas pipeline. This is about the construction of a cross-border gas pipeline. It also helps Hungary to be in a better position in the event of a gas deal with the Russian party, but we do not know exactly what is going on in the background with this investment. We have practically no opportunity as opposition representatives to report to the government. We would like to return to this issue at least within the framework of the energy strategy. The TIRI gas pipeline, which would bring gas to Hungary from the direction of Azerbaijan through Romania, is another issue that the Parliament has spoken about in the last cycle. We don't know much about this, unfortunately. It would also be worth discussing this within the framework of the energy strategy, even because these gas pipelines represent huge investments and significant investments in the country's life. Once again, the construction of the failed South Stream gas pipeline is a question that has been closed recently, at least for now it seems that the South Stream gas pipeline will not be built. The Russian intention to do so has practically been deleted. We are curious about what alternative solutions the government would like to find. It is a burning need, because if there is no natural gas in the country, it is obvious that we will have serious problems. It is very important to talk about these issues. The trans-European energy network, TEN-E, is regularly being regulated within the European Union. These regulations must be transposed into the Hungarian legal system and practice. It's also important to talk about them. It is understandable that we too want to be informed about this. These elements need to be integrated into the energy strategy and examined to what extent these ideas are met. Significant changes have been made to excise duties in recent years. For example, when I think of the excise duty on fuels, there was an increase during socialist governments, Fidesz politicians protested against it, and Fidesz continued to increase the excise duty on diesel in the last government cycle, and also the environmentally friendly energy sources such as LPG and CNG. These would have significantly reduced vehicle emissions in metropolitan transport, but the increase still took place. This is a contradiction that runs counter to the spirit of the energy strategy and its content. So if we were to look at the extent to which the principles laid down in the energy strategy are being met, I think that these contradictions could be addressed and that we could start in the direction of eliminating them. It's a matter of reducing the rent. At present, Szilárd Németh, in his person, we have the government's liability. Obviously, this is an issue that was one of the most important events of domestic domestic politics. This is a matter which has a strong impact on the energy strategy. It is understandable that we would like to talk more about this in its context here within the framework of the Parliament. The increasing share of import prices is an issue that the Secretary of State Aradski knows and knows. There was a year during the last government cycle under the government of Fidesz, when in one year four Hungarian power plants completed their operation, sent the workers away, and unfortunately we saw that the share of foreign electricity in the domestic electricity consumption increased at the same time. No new capacities have been created. If we just look at how the investment rate in the energy sector has developed, we can see more than sad data. Of course, it is worth talking about more often. The issue of consumer price regulation and the Authority's price ceiling is another issue that should be discussed more often. We do not think it a good solution that the government currently regulates this issue with an official price formula in a ministerial decree, that real payments to housing and households are regulated only by a ministerial decree, and not by the Parliament itself. It should be seen that the re-opening of coal mines, which my fellow Member has already mentioned here, is, for example, an idea that has been included in Jobbik's election points. As one of our development plans, called the Seven Leaders, we aimed at the re-opening of these mines in the energy strategy, because the sad situation has now been that, although significant amounts of coal are being used by households and still some power plants today, we are buying this coal not only from abroad, from foreign mines, and in this way, of course, we support foreign mining instead of Hungarian. This situation should also be changed. The question of hydropower is again a matter that is very difficult to address here in Parliament at any item on the agenda, since the government decides what to talk about here and what not. Jobbik wants hydroelectric power plants to be established on the Danube, Tisza and Dráván alike. We have a well-developed professional concept for this. We would also like to include this issue in the energy strategy, as we also see that there is room for the use of hydropower in Hungary. There is a possibility, and with this solution, we can also improve the country's water management. The Panel Plus program is currently in a rather stuck state. Jobbik would very much like to see this program not only continue, but also get a new impetus if we could finish it in the cities of the country, where panel apartments have been built recently. It's the most environmentally friendly energy in many cases that the country doesn't use. [[18.20]] At a time when we are talking about breaking prices for foreign companies by force, it is an effort that we can agree with. But how much better it would be if we didn't have to break down prices or not just cut prices, but didn't use that energy. This should create a framework. The possibility of the government imagining the energy modernisation of public buildings is also not developed in the government's energy strategy. We would like cost-effectiveness to decide, rather than the possibility of an incredibly poor and bureaucratic tender system, which schools, kindergartens or other public institutions we are modernising, but cost-effectiveness would determine their fate. Supporting coupled power generation: the government has repeatedly rewritten their rules along the different economic lobbying interests. We would also like to talk about this in the context of the national energy strategy. Supporting renewable energies: Is it a good thing what the government is doing now that we tax the solar panels with extra taxes? These are also issues that should be discussed more often in Hungary. Is it good that, where appropriate, extraction companies receive tax exemptions for energy sources harvested under an enhanced cultivation process, they do not have to pay a mining fee? The question is, is this good for the country? If the Hungarian people, the small people who earn a few thousand forints a month, are able to tax the government, then why is it that some energy companies can obtain these incomes tax-free? It's a matter of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Several of my fellow Members have been involved. Not only do we consider it necessary to talk about how this power plant will be built, but also about how the 40 percent of the Hungarian suppliers that the government is looking for will come together. That is why we have submitted this additional proposal to the government. In view of the fact that I have made a brief point-by-point effort to explain our proposal, I would ask that the government support our vision. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. On behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-03-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, I thank you for your supportive attitude, and I must say that the government does not want to save itself the work that the decision to adopt an energy strategy also provides for us to hold a debate on the implementation of the energy strategy and energy policy in this Parliament. That is why I am asking my fellow socialists, because it is something else, this proposal is not a substitute for this debate. It is just that the government should carry out the forecast updates that support many other strategies on its own responsibility. For example, not sufficiently rapid and not sufficiently flexible implementation of this could hinder the adoption of the national energy efficiency strategy. So the government just wants to ease and speed up. By the way, these figures, when there is a debate on the implementation of the energy strategy, must, of course, be interpreted. And at a time when the debate on the implementation of the strategy and energy policy is being held before this House, there can also be a debate about this, and the debate itself can give an impulse that the government may not have properly adapted those figures in its presentation on the implementation of the energy strategy. I think that if this distinction is made, then our presentation will become more understandable. I must point out that I understand the criticism, and I do not object to the fact that this presentation of performance should indeed be brought in every two years. What I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that the material for 2013 has been completed and that we intend to prepare 2015 too. That is why we want to have this debate together. I hope that this will be presented in this session, so until the end of May. Why is this taking so long? This is precisely the issue that many of you have mentioned, that the European Union or the Commission of the European Union wants the Energy Union to be accepted by the start-up of the Energy Union in March, with the start-up of the start-up gun in March among the countries of the Energy Union. This could also affect or require changes to the energy strategy. I think that Parliament is in any case going to debate in this regard. There have been a lot of comments from MEP Lajos Kepli and from Congressman Volner. But this concerns the energy strategy and not this so-called technical amendment, which, I say, is intended to modify the forecasts of the energy strategy. We will certainly continue to debate these, as I have just said, and, of course, we are ready for this debate. I think that on these fundamental issues, that increasing energy efficiency is important, we agree. This is what the energy strategy itself is saying, that energy that has not been used is the most important energy. It is also important to know that the government supports these steps in all respects. We will spend nearly 700 billion forints for this purpose in the next seven-year EU financial support cycle. I hope that this reduction in energy use, as defined or presented in the forecast, can be seen not only as a decline in the economy, although it is certain that it has a significant role to play, but also as a result of the success of energy efficiency programmes. But it is true, it is important that our energy consumption has decreased in recent years. It would indeed be worth discussing the evolution of energy dependence. Many times, for example, the reasons beyond us for gas interconnectors lead to the lack of back and forth flow at different interconnectors. But I don't think that's the subject of the proposal. The subject of the proposal is to give the government the power to update the forecast of energy use. It seemed to me that there was a consensus. Thank you for your support. I call on the representatives of Jobbik to present their amendment in line with this distinction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-03-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Thursday 5 March at 4 p.m. Next up is the 2005 CLXIV on trade. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. A separate motion by Kristóf Szatmáry and our Fidesz colleagues, Roland Mengyi, T/3414. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-148	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Given the extent of the presentation, I'm not going to take the 30 minutes. Very briefly, perhaps all of my fellow Members are aware that at the end of last year, Parliament adopted the 2014 Act prohibiting Sunday work in the retail sector. This was to provide the families of tens of thousands of workers in trade with Sunday rest days, based on Western European examples that operate from Germany through France in many European countries. [[18.30]] Obviously, the law was adopted by the Parliament, trying to accept the proposal in such a way that this change would affect all market participants equally, so that no one could gain a market advantage. Only small independent family shops may be excluded from this, since under the provisions of the previous law, only enterprises with a family member of less than 200 square meters and a helping family, able to work on Sundays with them, can be exempted from the scope of the law. What justified the current submission of the law is that in the definitions of the Trade Act adopted in 2005, not all commercial units carrying out trade in one place would have obtained a market advantage by applying only the retail trade law last year, not wholesale, which, I think, would have given the other market players, whether international or domestic, an unfair competitive advantage. Therefore, the submitted bill makes or introduces very simply the distinction in the definition that applies to commercial units carrying out retail and retail trade in one place, so, mutatis mutandis, those who carry out retail trade in one place should be considered as retail units with regard to the provision of the Sunday Day Recreation Act, thus eliminating the potential unfair competitive advantage of certain commercial units on the market. The proposed legislation was intended to affect market players in the same way and to bring legislation into line with the original aim, so I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Béla Glattfelder, State Secretary, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[On the mark of Béla Glattfelder:]] Yes, he does. The Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The bill seeks to amend the Trade Act. According to the proposal submitted by the Members, a business which carries on retail and wholesale activities at the same place and at the same time is considered to be a retail business in the application of the provisions of the Act prohibiting Sunday work in the commercial sector, so it cannot depart from the general opening rules. The above amendment is also intended to be brought into line with certain points of the Labour Code. We agree with the purpose of the amendment to the commercial law, but we propose that its wording be improved by law on some points, for example, in order to express the fact that the trader is not carrying out commercial activities. I would ask you to support this bill in the light of our comments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-03-151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill submitted consists of only three paragraphs. In view of the fact that only two of these are substantive paragraphs, the substance can therefore be summarized relatively briefly. Of course, the bill is not unprecedented. On the 16th of December 2014, Parliament adopted a law prohibiting Sunday work in the retail sector, which will enter into force in a few days on 15 March. This law was based on the intention to force no one to work on Sundays against their will. The aim was to achieve a universal rest day, that is, to free everyone whose work does not require continuous work. It is necessary to have a day that every member of the family can spend together. Of course, I am aware that European practice shows a very colourful picture. In Austria, the regulations are perhaps the most severe or strict, and they have to keep commercial units closed from 6:00 a.m. on Saturday night until 6:00 a.m. on Monday morning. In Belgium, shops may be open on 9 Sundays a year, and in England shops of more than 280 square meters may be open for up to 6 hours on Sundays. In Germany, it is the right of each province to determine how many shops open on Sundays; in Switzerland, the main rule is that shops are closed on Sundays; whereas in Poland, Sweden, Slovakia, there is no restriction on keeping shops open. The accepted proposal only forbids the opening of shops on Sundays and public holidays, in other cases, such as Saturdays, it is limited only by time limits, and the main rule is that shops may be open between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. in Hungary. An important objective of the adopted proposal is not to restrict the opening of small family businesses if they are not large commercial units and in otherwise prohibited periods the owners or their assisting family members carry out commercial activities themselves. Today, the purpose of the bill before this House is to clarify for the application of the law the rules governing the opening hours of mixed retail and wholesale shops in terms of the opening hours ban on Sunday. I would ask my fellow Members to support this initiative with certain amendments.
u2015-03-03-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. The MSZP Group has indicated that the group's position is expressed by two of its representatives within the time frame available. Accordingly, I give the floor first to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, we're not surprised that a few days ago, the government appointed a Minister for Circus Affairs, because what they're doing here in connection with Sunday closed hours and a lot of laws requires that they have a secretary of state for circus affairs or a minister for this government. It is so serious what you are doing with this Sunday's lockdown that I would like to draw your attention to nothing but what you have said in recent years on this subject. The first thing I would like to begin with is a record statement from the session of the Committee on Employment and Labour of the National Assembly held on Monday 14 February 2011, at 9:30 p.m. At that time, Mr Péter Harrach, Member of the KDNP, said: "Dear Commission! I think that reading the texts is not one of the most enjoyable acts, but I can now suggest to everyone that, if you have three minutes, you should read this presentation, because it is clear from the only two-page material that we are talking about. I would say to the Member that it would have been very good if he had been here in the Chamber today; it is not good for us to be here and clown around here every two weeks in connection with this law. This is the third time we have been here in the last time and we are debating various amendments. Then the Member continued at the committee's meeting, saying, "If you look at the draft law, you must see that it is a liberal law; it is not about introducing, for example, a law similar to that practiced by our neighbours in Austria, but rather of the European countries, we are trying to imitate those using more liberal solutions. We would like to draw attention now to the fact that in neighbouring countries they are actually about to introduce Sunday's opening hours. Then I would like to proceed with the same committee meeting. I am glad that Kristóf Szatmáry is sitting here, because I would quote his sentences on what was said then, and he replied to Peter Harrach. [[18.40]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But while I am here, let me just say that the Ministry of National Economy would welcome this solution, since it intends to deal with this issue in substance, but we do not yet have the exact background calculations and economic analyses to limit Sunday work in this way. I suppose that Mr President could say this now, as he did in 2011, because these background studies are still not available to the government. Then I'd like to continue with your Prime Minister's words. 2011. Orbán said that on the 31st of the month V. On Tuesday, Viktor Orbán stressed at the conference entitled Economic revolution on the occasion of the government's one-year anniversary: he would very much like it to be possible to live on five days' work in Hungary, but it cannot be done. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As soon as you can make a living on five days a week of work, I will be one of those who will support Sunday's closed hours. In the meantime, however, I feel that we do not have the opportunity to do so. I do not think that, since 2011, Viktor Orbán should change these thoughts or this opinion. I think that from five days a week of work, families can't really make a living right now, and things have gotten worse ever since. I'd like to proceed with the next statement. The Mammut published a statement on March 2, so the statement is quite recent. So far, Mammut's shops were open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. The employees have just received the new opening hours, which have been confirmed by the marketing department of the shopping mall. According to this, from March 15 to Monday to Wednesday from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Thursday to Saturday, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 p.m., shops will be open at Mammut. This means that from Monday to Wednesday, it will be open for a total of three hours, from Thursday to Saturday, in total, 4.5 hours longer than it is now, so if not completely, it will partially bring in what it has lost with Sunday closed. But if I wanted to publish the truth and the whole truth here, then one of the workers who called himself Tiborc made a complaint, we call it Tiborc's complaint, and I would read it to you to know what the consequences of this law are. I work here, and the opening hours from 10:00 to 21:00 have now changed from 9:00 to 21.30, so I have to work 12.5 hours, which means I'm leaving at 8:00 and getting home at 10:30. 'Cause there's even the upload of stores in commerce, and it's not just the closing of commercial stores. It's inconclusive. I'd like to see my family awake during the week, not just on Sunday, and I don't know if we can work 12.5 hours in a row according to the Labour Code. Please release this inhumane thing. So when you're referring to families, you're going to tear families apart with this law. At the very least, before I give the floor to Anita, on 12 December 2014 Viktor Orbán said that:. We strive to ensure that as few people as possible are in a position to be forced to work on Sundays. If you want to work on Sundays and not under pressure, not to keep your job, you have to respect that. *We would very much like for the pro-government representatives to always remember these sentences and not to forget that one day they say that, and the next day quite differently, as they have just woken up, or just as their economic interests require of themselves. So I think that there is a need for Minister of Circus Commissioners in this government, because what you're doing here with regard to laws is a circus. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-155	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman Anita Heringes will continue her speech. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-156	Yes, and then let's continue the dialogue on the lex metro law, as many people today call this law on the street. We did not support or agree with their initiative to ban the opening hours on Sunday either at the beginning, as the government has once again neglected to carry out preliminary surveys and impact assessments. This disturbed Mr Satmáry back in 2011. Today we can see that you are not really disturbed by this question. We see that you are once again able to submit a law that requires you to submit constant amendments to it with a view to improving it. We will also do the submission of the modifiers, for example, to raise the 100 percent bonus and bring back the old Labour Code on this issue. It's just that somehow you didn't complete the amendment of the law where these amendments appear. That is why we have tabled to you today once again a proposal for an amendment in which you can support the 100 per cent bonus, since your fellow Members from KDNP have seriously stressed this during each debate, in their view, that this would be the minimum. Let us say that we would be pleased if the labour code, the old one, were brought back on several points, because I think that this would be the acceptable solution for workers, employers and trade unions. We have now tabled a number of amendments to this law. For example, LMP had already submitted the opening of gardening supplies. We are resubmitting it here, as it is true that as a Budapester, many of you do not know, but it is really the weekend and Sunday when rural people can shop in these shops. Therefore, it would be a minimum that they would support the opening of a store where they could at least buy vegetables, fruit, and small fruit trees, and then people would be able to produce these products for themselves, and they would not have to buy them at the store, because on Sunday they would not know, but they would be able to buy them at priceless prices, and the wages they receive today, especially in trade, would be the best way to come out of producing things for themselves. As my colleague Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also said, Viktor Orbán said that it would be introduced when five days of work a week were available for a living. You know, today, in a small town in commerce, the minimum wage is earned by a worker, which is HUF 105 thousand gross, HUF 68 775 net. Well, I don't know, what I see is that it's not the amount to make a living, and it's not for five days. So I can't imagine how they thought that this wage would make a living. These small towns. In large cities, the average income is 110 thousand gross, and in Budapest 120 thousand in trade. As a Paksian, I talked to former leaders who are shopkeepers in the Hungarian shop. After 17 years of work, they bring home 101,000 forints. If they can continue to work for five days, they will probably not be able to make a living with this money either. And you should also know that they receive 1500 HUF for Sunday work in Hungarian stores. It's also a rather thought-provoking fact. What we would like to say to you, as Ildikó said, is that if the IKEA, malls and all similar shops are extended by one hour, their opening hours will be open at 7 a.m. in a grocery store even in Budapest, and then the employee will be back at 8-9 p.m., who will not see his child as a mother from now on. Now, that's the real family-friendly law. Gentlemen, you didn't think this through, you really didn't think it through, you certainly didn't think it through as a man. Obviously, we understand that as a mother, you don't have to think, but that's a lot. [[Kristóf Szatmáry intervenes.]] there will be a serious problem for the mother. In 2010, Antal Rogán said that in his opinion unemployment would be increased by keeping it closed on Sunday, and that it would be introduced when Hungary is in an up-and-coming period, because it is only possible to introduce Sunday closure. We understand that you're saying the propaganda everywhere that the economy is booming, but somehow the average person doesn't feel it. Not only does the average person not feel it, but most of the rural population do not feel it. He said then that a two - year preparation period would be absolutely necessary for this. Well, once you've submitted, you can't see the two-year preparation period again. But we have already noticed that it doesn't matter to you what the opposition says, what ordinary people say. We asked people about the opening hours on Sunday to buy on Sunday, that we expressed our opinion as MSZP and asked what their opinion was about whether or not the shops would be open on Sunday, as they would vote for you or not in 2018. We have about 85 percent of people who went to the store on Sunday, and he said, yes, he needs to have the shops open on Sunday. You don't want to hear this and you don't want to understand. The problem is, once again, they're looking at their business interests, again, it's not about the people and the family. That's what's terrible to see from a Christian Democratic party of government. I'm sorry. Thank you. [[18.50]]
u2015-03-03-157	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. With all due respect, we're sitting here on the presidential bench with two of us, so we're watching. Thank you very much. He is the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group in Editor Sebesty. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm starting to get the feeling, not for the first time, that there are things that aren't right or right, except for the judge in Ghevi. Because when we, after the entry into force of a law, see it either with its executives or even - in quotes or not in quotes, but in the literal sense - with its sufferers, feeling the effect of that law, we submit amendments, we always get the answer that this is not yet timely, because the right time must be allowed to feel the actual effect of the law. A lot of people aren't allowed to do that, except for the judge in Derek. We are now discussing an amendment to a law that has not yet entered into force. It will enter into force in two weeks on 15 March, but we will discuss its amendment as a separate motion for the second time. Moreover, there is now a situation where, until the entry into force of the original law, this amendment will not enter into force, because technically it is impossible for Parliament to become an integral part of the law that will enter into force by 15 March. We also see very well - if we even agree with the original intention of the legislator - that stores in Hungary are like a one-time burglar or bank robber, or even a hacker, I could say that they are always one step ahead of law enforcement and security agencies. The law hasn't even entered into force, but many multinational chains have already found those loopholes as they can circumvent this original law. We can even think of playing open hours for small family businesses in a franchise system on Sunday, and there are other loopholes that can be found, not to mention the loopholes that are deliberately included in the original law to give an advantage to food and retail chains close to the government, not taking into account the competitive spirit. There is so much energy spent on this law, especially the second time before the entry into force, as I said in the previous debate, that this much energy should be devoted to the actual problems of people working in these supermarket chains. We could even think of an English-owned food chain, a multinational company. If you compare the amount of money a working person makes in the London unit, and whether in Budapest or in Tatabánya's shop, you can see how much a worker makes there, then you can see how much difference there is. If tax differences are taken into account, the seller working in the London department store makes five times as much net as he does in the Budapest or even in the Tatabánya chain. If this wage and prices in Hungary were acceptable, we would not be able to say a word. But what the previous speakers have already said is that this money is almost not enough to starve to death. We are very well aware that if you look at the Hungarian prices, whether it is credit schemes or housing loans, you simply cannot come out of that money. Another question is what working conditions they have to work under. So I would rather suggest to the government and the pro-government representatives that they finally draw up a proposal that they will not accept from us; they would not accept it in any form of motion. Finally, a system is being developed to ensure that the wages of workers working in multinational companies in Hungary are closer to what those working in the home and country of the parent company are earning. That would be what would be a family-friendly measure, which would be in the best interest of the people who work there. I think that really, what is happening with this bill, with the law that will enter into force on 15 March, is now a clown circus, a flea circus. Finish this and actually deal with the actual problems of people and workers. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-03-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members would have the opportunity to speak, and no one will. It is now possible to make the first two-minute speech. Congressman László Varga, please.
u2015-03-03-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the legislation that has not been preceded by any impact assessment has been amended for a long time, and otherwise they have no practical experience in this regard. By the way, Sunday's lockdown is doomed - it is the conviction of many. There is only one reason why you brought this in: you want to put certain economic circles in a better position on the market. It's not the first law of this type, that's what you want to comply with. If that were not the case, they would certainly not have done what they had done in the previous cycle, for example. It's just, you know, a lot of people remember that. For example, I was here the night after midnight when they brought in the amendment of the Labour Code, the total destruction of the former labor code. At that time, a number of my fellow Members and I were discussing it the next morning and we were trying to draw the attention of workers and the public in the country to what you are doing to the common people. Perhaps the low earners, the workers, the wagers and the wagers, understand better what you did to them then. Because my fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, brought in this proposal for a 100% supplement for Sunday's work a few weeks ago, which he then quickly withdrew, or the Parliament does not negotiate, because it requires further very important discussions. Of course, he voted for it at the time with the Labour Code that practically destroyed the well-functioning bonus system at the time. He also voted in favour of an earlier proposal when the strike was taken away from employees. You also voted for the destruction of the possibility of employee interest representatives to otherwise engage in employee representation. Each of them has created a flexible labour market by making small-time earners, wage and salary earners flexibly exploitable to large-scale capitalists and oligarchs. That's what you did. They are still in the interest of such an economic group, amending this legislation for a third time without having impact assessments, waiting for the period after 15 March to see how it works at all. It won't work, I'll report it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since there are no two-minute speeches, or at least no candidates, there will be regular speeches. I would like to take the floor first from the group of the MSZP to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Varga began by saying that without impact assessments. I'm not surprised. I'm not surprised because it's not the only law when things happen that way. You don't do that. They simply think that there is no need to measure it here, no need to look here, no need to look forward here, no need to consider anything here, or perhaps what is, in some sense, the economic interest of those in the moonyard, or perhaps it should be considered. That's how they act. Impact studies? Forget it. Let's just forget it because years ago, even when Christian Democrats couldn't agree with Fidesz and Christian Democrats, but Fidesz and Christian Democrats couldn't agree on this issue, that was the key word in the framework of the committee meeting, Kristóf Szatmáry referred to. I sat there, I heard it, and I didn't just read it on the record. When they didn't want it, it was the key: well, it can't be done, it needs to be measured, it needs to be looked at, it needs impact assessments. You don't have to look at it when you want to, you don't have to look at it. [[19.00]] It's all about being good for someone. But in my opinion, the preparation of this law, I can safely say, happened in a mindless manner. Because he doesn't consider or, I say the opposite, because it may be true that he doesn't consider or make a bed for him; earlier, let's say, two years before, he smashes the labour code, smashes the bonus systems, smashes everything that benefits the working man, and then promises, and then, not about seven o'clock in the evening between the walls of Parliament, sitting together with Kristóf Szatmáry - and now I'm not looking for my fellow Members, I'm just mentioning my fellow Member's name because he's at least here - but when you can shine in the spotlight, tell me how whoo, my friends, whoo, ladies, gentlemen, are working on Sundays? Then it's a hundred percent payback. Then the night comes, 7:00 p.m., no spotlight, then it's different, then we don't need 50 percent. Then you don't need it - what the hell is a pay-off? These people are making enough money. In trade, as has been said - Anita Heringes said, and speaks of facts - people in small settlements are looking for minimum wage. Do you know how much this is? 68,750 forints. That's what people take care of. You know what that's worth? It's worth 5,000 forints less than it was in 2010. You give this minimum wage to the people, while taking away the opportunity to use your own workforce and, if necessary, to supplement the family's income by working on Sundays to ensure the safety of their livelihoods, and to live a decent, acceptable life. Christian Democratic creed is likely to be in this direction. I also think that it is not good for Christian Democrats to represent this one day and the other day to represent the opposite. I would very much like to see Peter Harrach's eyes, his eye contact, his presence here, his words, because a week ago he spoke in the walls of Parliament about the fact that everything I say is impertinent, and he would like to stand up and go out, but he can't do that. Because I dared say that a man who works on Sundays and wants to support his family with honor may rightly expect to receive the one-percent wage allowance that existed at some time, not at your time, during the previous period. Then refined by Peter Harrach. And then he said, "Yeah, I mean, yeah, it's a hundred percent extra." Then when I said that not only in the retail trade, but also for everyone who does work on Sundays, is forced to do so, or does so on their own initiative, in order to ensure a better livelihood, they should also be a 100% wage supplement. Then he said it was worth thinking about, maybe he could even support it. Tonight, he couldn't even come into the walls of Parliament to give his opinion on this bill, which doesn't say 100% anymore, but doesn't talk about a 50% wage supplement. Where's the consistency? Where is what Viktor Orbán said to you at a faction meeting or openly towards the people? That he would support that on Sunday, let's say, the shops would be closed and that work would not be possible if people could earn so much wages that they could earn a decent living. I just gave you the example. In these retail units, people earn the minimum wage or the amounts in the immediate vicinity of the minimum wage. I also said I'd tell you once more to burn into your brains so they'd know to think about it and make sure they didn't. This money, this minimum wage, is worth five thousand forints less than what was taken in 2010 and what is now being held. It's a terrible shame that you've done in five years. It's a huge shame, because they're talking about trying to make people think that they're better off doing things for them, that they're doing things for the working people. Don't do it! Don't do it like that. Because if they do, it's not for their own good. This is about something else. It's about taking their best. This is not what these people deserve. Much more, much better, in terms of governance. And then let us make some specific points about this bill. The essence of the story is that where small and wholesale activities are carried out, these units should be considered retail, even so that there is no competitive advantage in these units over others. I would like to look back at the five years that have taken place, how many times you have managed to create a situation when you have not taken advantage from a competitive point of view. Just so you don't have to do a lot of research in your memory, I'll tell you a few things. Do you remember the category of national tobacco shops? Do you remember when concessions were distributed? If you don't, I'll help you. Miskolc is a county-righted town. I know more than I normally know other cities because I live there most of my life. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] In Miskolc, 80-some concessions were distributed. Twenty of these, not one, not two, twenty were won by two Fidesz municipal representatives and their family members. Well, they've got good interests, it seems. But I'm telling you, that's rude. Plus, I'll add - you remember Secretary of State, don't you? - It was something like that return, profit, commission, I don't know exactly what title it was under, which could be obtained, that was 2.5 percent. Then after the concessions were won by the buddies, the friends, then, if I remember correctly, it went up to 10 percent. The procedure is correct, absolutely correct. But the competitive neutrality and the expression, Mr. Secretary, bring these stories back to your memory. But speaking of closing on Sunday, the national tobacco shops, thank God, they were the ones who got away with Sunday's closure. Unlike your gardener. Yeah, well, then, when almost everyone was rebelling that normal activities had to be done in a garden on Saturdays and Sundays, and usually the customers went there to buy on Sundays, because that's when they allowed their free time, they were willing to think about it at all. So what I'm trying to say to you is that there's some consistency, some consistency. And while we're talking about allowances, or we're not talking about them, because Mr. Secretary of State doesn't like to talk about it, I'd like to recall it back to 2012. Act I, the Code of Labour, where you smashed the system of allowances. Remember, the afternoon allowance was canceled, the night allowance was reduced, the Sunday allowance was something, we don't know what's going on, but there's the amendment, so we still know it's filed. [[19.10]] The only thing you have left to do is to associate with my fellow Member, Becsó, who, on 18 February 2015, if my memoirs do not deceive me, submitted a proposal for an amendment of the law in which he proposes a 100 percent wage supplement, now they can regroup. Tell my fellow Member Harrach. It's time, it's time, don't forget, don't let him out of your sight. Not after the adoption of the law, let them mourn and feel sorry for the people that we forgot, oh, oh, we would have done it, but now we're over it. So, I want you to have some consistency in your work and to listen to Viktor Orbán, to listen to the minister who was asking the question of living five days a week from work. Do this, even because it would be in the best interest of the people if they did. On Sunday, work cannot be carried out under duress; of course, it must be respected, who is forced to work on Sunday, says Orbán. Yes, but not only must it be respected; in terms of remuneration, it is also necessary to create a background that rewards this in an appropriate way. And let me say one more thing to you, and that is that no one can be forced to work against his will on Sunday, says Péter Harrach, "but there must be a second half of the sentence, or there must be a second half of the sentence, but not even a ban. What you're doing is banning, taking away opportunities, which brings with it a lot of people who, let's say, want to be part of the retail stage, because they need the source that they could, in this way, acquire, they're gonna lose it thanks to you. You don't give, you lose, you give to yourself, you give to your own friends, and to your own moonyard, and God knows who else. But for people who are most in need of a little more - a little more! - money goes into the family register, you don't give it to them; you just talk about it, you try to fool people, but you don't give it to them, you take it away from them, you take it away from them, you take away the opportunity to make a little better living for them. That is what they should think about, and that is what they should do when they start to legislate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-03-163	The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-03-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote a few specific points from the proposal that has been put before us and that lies before us. This includes that businesses that are also engaged in small and wholesale activities and that are engaged at the same time should be considered as retail outlets from now on, so they will also be left out of the possibility of opening on Sunday, and they will, of course, have to be closed. Also, the amendment to the Labour Code, according to which Sunday also applies to regular working hours, which is 8 hours and up to 50 per cent supplement - so nowhere is the 100 per cent we have heard from KDNP representatives as well - and this Sunday regular working hours will apply to those employed in places serving trade and commercial tourism services, these employers are those who then provide this 8 hour to their employees and this maximum 50 per cent. So now we actually have to ask who they want to think is stupid. It's the third time they've carved this law, which is insane in itself, and by the way, they're running against the wall with it. It puts tens of thousands of people in an extremely difficult position. They didn't listen to any suggestions, they didn't accept any amendments, they didn't even take their own proposals, they talk to the air, they promise a 100 percent bonus, they promise that otherwise, even your gardeners will be open - we can't see any of it. Before Christmas, we had to push through this law quickly, which I believe is unbelievable, that KDNP, an unmeasurable support party, was able to pass it through the Fidesz, so I still think it's an extremely hypocritical thing, and by the way, they're fooling people with it and putting them in a very difficult position. I would also like to quote the Prime Minister, because we cannot say this enough times, because in May 2011, Mr Orbán said, as my fellow Members have mentioned, but I also quote precisely: . As soon as it is possible to make a living on five days a week, I will be one of those who will support Sunday's closed hours. Until then, I feel like we don't have a chance. This is what Viktor Orbán said in 2011. Since 2011, the actions of the Orbán government have made Hungarian society even more difficult, and we can talk about 5 million people who live in poverty and are constantly poor in Hungary, and since then the situation has only deteriorated. And by the way, fellow Members, it may be that in the pro-government benches or the members of the government can make a very loose living on five days a week - I would add: they do not work that much, it is obvious - but 90 percent of the people in Hungary cannot make a decent living. I would like to quote a few sentences from the Protocol of 3 December 2014, where Péter Harrach said: "Free Sunday is just a part of the multifaceted problems of commercial workers, because a large number of commercial employers, especially multinational companies, abuse the vulnerable situation of workers and employ them with considerable overwork for minimum wages. So, I would like to highlight the essence of this: a large proportion of commercial employers abuse the vulnerable situation of workers. Who provided them, fellow Members? ! The government's actions, the labor code that you guys threw together irresponsiblely, that's what put the employees at risk, that's why they're in this situation. One more quote from Péter Harrach:. So this bill went through a long series of reconciliations with the interest representation bodies of employees, employers and families. This is also a statement that, on the one hand, I think, does not cover reality, and then I have put it very delicately, and otherwise, the interests of the families should be precisely those of the pro-government representatives, who actually have two thirds, which were still there, now they are not able to take action, and they can take measures to this day to actually represent the interests of families - they do not do so. And then allow me to quote two articles. One of them is a February 2013 article about it, and I quote this year's third event in the gymnasium of the Gregor József Primary School, which is now considered traditional III. The Catholic Farsang Ball of Cancer. The main patron of the evening was Mayor Riz Levente. On the spot the patrons of the evening appeared: Mónika Dunai and Péter Rózsahegyi municipal representatives. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[19.20]] Continuing from another place, Mónika Dunai offered in her toast three concepts to the present debutors: the threefold of communion, association and love. These words - like the pearls of a prom necklace - are bound together by strength.--I have to tell you who this Catholic carnival supporter was, I would definitely highlight a supporter, a gardening product who supported this event. I would very much like to know - aside from the fact that Mónika Dunai, we do not see here - that, by the way, this gardening commodity supported this event, which she believes is the threefold of community, association and love, how this gardening commodity now appreciates this, that it cannot be open otherwise on Sunday. Does he appreciate this under the title of the community, appreciate it in the spirit of association, or appreciate it in the spirit of love? So I'd really like to know that. I very much hope that, by the way, Mónika Dunai will ask this gardening store how they feel about keeping it closed on Sunday. And a similar quote, and this is at the end of September 2013, which is why the time for the spring parliamentary elections in 2014 was approaching. In the district there was also an article about a suburban lecsófest. And this said: "The news came that the local gardener's manager invited the roommates to a scavenger contest, and everyone I talked to was cheered up, and there were better ideas than that, and there was no lack of help. With the help of the selection of the date and the heavenlys, a memorable event was gathered, and the competition was well organized. Supply and raw materials were provided by the company, which is also a XVII. district gardening. And I'd like to continue with the quote from somewhere else, and most importantly, it's the competition. That's right. That wasn't easy. You had to choose the three best of a dozen delicious food poems. I used to make me some juice, and the family liked it, but what we tasted there wasn't that category. With my two colleagues, Mónika Dunai and Katalin Kosorúsné Tóth, we had a very difficult decision to make as local council representatives. But I hope that those who have not won this time will not be discouraged and will also participate in the competition planned for the future.. This gardener has not won either, because this gardener is also a gardener who has not been assured that he will be able to keep open on Sunday, because the amendment that you have submitted is not available anywhere. By the way, the 15th of March is extremely close, so we have no idea how this is going to be solved. And again, I'm asking what Mónika Dunai is going to say to these people. I would like to draw attention to what my fellow Member Zsolt Becsó mentioned recently, which is that the aim of the proposal is to ensure that no one can be forced to work against his will on Sunday. It would be good to see that this is not the case, because it is not a question of forcing someone to work on Sunday, but, unfortunately, the Hungarian reality is that most people are willing to do it and need to be able to work on Sunday. And not because your heart dictates this, not because you wouldn't want to be with your family, but because that's how you can provide your family with the most basic livelihood at all, or that's how you can make that little surplus - just as my fellow Member Nándor Gúr said - it might make a little progress, a little easier every month. This could be what, don't give, God, once a year, even for three days, let's say they can only go to Lake Balaton, and then I didn't even say they'd have a port, and that they'd be riding on the water with a yacht, as we can see by the way, that there are such relatives near the governing party who can do that. I don't think they're doing this from Sunday work, so let's just say we can be sure of that. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the preference for small family business is a very nice thing, but think about what a small family business needs. If you want to open a small grocery store, you have to start capital, you have to be able to run it. So the people who are the poorest, by the way, are the people who work in the larger commercial units, they are the tellers, they are the tellers, as my fellow Member Anita Heringes has often pointed out, and they are also the students. And they're the ones they're messing with by taking the job away from them. So by telling us what can't be done on Sunday, they will achieve that even though tens of thousands of people will be at home with their families on Sunday, because there will be no place to work, but there will certainly be no Sunday lunch on the table. And I do not know how both my KDNP and my Fidesz fellow Members will digest this; unfortunately for them, for those who are indemnified, there will be nothing to do with it, because there will be no lunch on the table. So I would like to urge you not to assume that you are living very well from or less than five days a week. Don't assume that people don't need to get a little extra. Don't assume that it's enough to give people a 100 percent allowance, and then they can give people nothing. And it is time for them to finally see the reality of Hungary, to realize that this law will simply not work in practice, what a negative effect it has, and to finally recognize after five years the situation that they have put this country in, what position they have put the Hungarian people in. And by the way, get on your asses. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-165	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr László Kiss is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to bring a little different perspective here. I've got to tell you, maybe like the third. Parliamentary representative of the district, who lives in the district and is in contact with the district every day, how this Sunday opening and closing story can affect people. First of all, if you will allow me to make a subjective remark: I think it was a little tasteless, or if you like it, I am sure that this date on 15 March is not the right time to enter into force. I think the 15th of March is an important holiday for our nation, and we will celebrate in a few days. I'm sure the legislator could have waited 15 more days or even 15 days earlier if it was so urgent. I am sure that not only my taste is violated by the fact that, after our national holiday, this legislation will enter into force, and we will burden the thoughts of the national holiday, but this is just a parentheses note. I was thinking, when I listened to my fellow Member Nándor Gúr on the Trafik case in Miskolc, that unfortunately this is not an isolated phenomenon, because in Obuda, too, the year was a traffikmutít, and the traffikmutti for the protection of small children made it possible, which was not before: there is now a traffikmutít in front of a school, because the legislation also allows it. That was transparent legislation. Obviously, if we were to legislate in the spirit of competition neutrality, then of course, there wouldn't be any traffi, just like there wouldn't have been any traffikmuti. I apologise for this wording, but I do find the arguments concerning the Code of Work false. When the Prime Minister says in Saudi Arabia a few months ago that the Arab investors come here because the Labour Code is so soft that it is an excellent way to exploit the employee, and it creates an appropriate environment for employers, I think it is a bit shady to talk about how to exploit the employee, by the way. [[19.30]] The employee is exploited by all multinational and non-multinational companies as much as the legislative environment makes this possible. The Hungarian Socialist Party is constantly initiating a revision of the Code of Work, and we are constantly initiating the removal from the Labour Code of the passes that allow the exploitation of workers. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, is also an enthusiastic fighter of this issue, but all socialist Members are fighting and fighting every day to ensure that there are no laws in Hungary in the labour code that allow the exploitation of a simple worker. Nevertheless, the government insists on these laws, in addition to these passes, and from now on I feel a little naive or falsely surprised at the inequalities that exist in the world of work. Of course there are, because your legislation makes this possible, and in good cases your omissions and in bad cases your deliberate laws allow the Hungarian worker, the Hungarian worker, to be exploited. I agree with everyone here who is talking about the need to put an end to this. Sure. I would be the happiest if there were legislation before us about how to close the gates that eliminate the exploitation of the Hungarian worker, the Hungarian worker. Yeah, I'd love that. This is not such a proposal, as you reject all of the proposals of the Hungarian Socialist Party without debate, nor is it put on the agenda to resolve this problem. It is possible that there are better proposals than the proposals of the MSZP, and I would be very happy if you would bring proposals to the world of work that would close the gates that you have opened better than we do. That's not what I'm talking about. As a result, the history of Sunday's closure is justified by the fact that, indeed, Hungarian workers are exploited, it is at least false. It is also false, because if you go around even in your own constituency - that's what I recommend to everyone - you see that the opening of each store changes interestingly from 15 March. If I go out and buy bread, then I see where I've bought bread, in the afternoon or in the evening, plus one, plus two hours later, the shops open first. When you think about whether the allowance for afternoon work, evening work is higher or the Sunday allowance is greater, you immediately realize that what is happening here is that the good companies that have exploited the workers so far continue to employ their employees with the cheaper evening allowance, while the more expensive Sunday allowance, although delivered by you, is being replaced by this. So what you have achieved is that if there are lucky workers who are not dismissed, who have not reduced their working hours, and who will receive money for their wages with a much smaller evening allowance, as they have received so far. That's a terrible lie. Compared to that, you have spoken about what I would very much agree with, putting it back, putting it back or increasing the allowance for Sunday work. I don't see such a proposal in front of us. That if we had such a proposal before us, which is what it is about, then I think that we could really talk about the fact that what you are doing is good for the workers. I'm afraid that's not the case. Unfortunately, I must say that this cannot be good for workers. Technically, it can't be good for anyone. Mr. Tállai Secretary of State today, I don't even think he meant it, because he couldn't really understand it, he said that the MSZP is not a left-wing party, because it doesn't protect mothers who can't do math with the child, because they have to go to the store on Sunday and they can't go to church and they can't go on a trip because they have to go to a shop on Sundays. In front of my mind, I see a man who goes to the store from morning to night. I'll tell you the truth, I'm a shopkeeper, by the way, and since I've worked as a teacher for the last four years, very often I couldn't do anything but go to the store on Saturday. Still, I didn't spend hours shopping. When you are talking here about the desire to return Sunday to the family, it would be desirable to create the family's community experiences on Sunday, then again I can say that I agree with this, for example. I find it very desirable that people spend as much time together as possible not only on Sunday, but from Monday to Sunday, and that families should be together and organise programs. However, let us also bear in mind that this proposal has nothing to do with this in the world. Do we really think buying Sunday for half an hour is gonna stop anyone from being with their family? Are we really serious about this? Do we really think that, in the case of legislation that affects millions of people, anyone would buy that? So it's really possible to argue that a 20-minute, half-hour shopping prevents people from being together? So it's frivolous! It's frivolous because the life you're talking about, I'm afraid, for example, that I live in it. My wife and I go to church every Sunday. And since we're both working a lot, we're going to go out on Sunday - or we're going out because we can't do this after 15 March - to the store, too. I don't know if it's new, the III. There are many churches and shops in the district, and because of that, we have been able to work together with the two. But as incredible as it is when we are at my wife's family's Chapel, we can also make sure that on Sunday both projects are implemented, that we can go to the chapel church, and that we can go shopping at the store on Kálon, even further than the shop on the Chapel. So from here on out, I can say that we can implement this incredible project. I think so, but I say to notary Mirkóczki that we can even go to the church in Feldebrő, so we can actually implement this plan. I don't think we're alone with this thing. These are false arguments for nothing, fellow Members. If we were to talk about what is really the value crisis that makes it possible to say that families do not care about each other, then, for example, it would be just another proper debate. I would very much agree that this House should deal with this. If the Fidesz or even the Christian Democratic People's Party were to initiate a debate day to explore why families do not care about each other, why is it that we are so estranged from each other that a harsh day's struggle for a meal will scare us away from each other, that would be a very good debate. I am only afraid that this debate will end what my fellow Member Gur has spoken about. It would be such an end to this debate that we would see if we could speak frankly to each other that families do not care about each other because it is simply the daily struggle that keeps them busy. Whether we are terrified of being dismissed or not, or whether we do not have a job, or whether we should be afraid of getting out of the wages we receive every day. It obviously cripples people. When we talk about Hungary's lack of order, no security of life, we get the answer to the question as to why families do not care about themselves as much as it would otherwise be right. I believe that if this could be discussed honestly in this House and you would sincerely initiate such a debate day, then it would certainly be good for this country; it would only have a consequence that, for example, we should oppose measures that threaten people's everyday lives and oppose the Hungarian reality of which you have created a significant part in recent years. You obviously don't want that. I think that it is very simple to prevent, for example, any company from becoming multinational or not - in this sense irrelevant to the employee - from exploiting the Hungarian worker. It is necessary to create a legislative environment that prevents this. For example, if you'd stuck to your commitment and raised your Sunday job allowance to 100 percent, or even said that we should be more revolutionary and left-wing than MSZP, put the workers' Sunday allowance to 200 percent, then I would really like to see who the companies would hire on their own. So there are instruments that can help workers to achieve the things that you want, or at least what you say. That's not what I'm talking about. If you come up with a proposal that says that you socialists are wrong, not 100 percent, but 150 percent, I'd say I'm convinced, I really need 150 percent. If you tell us not to exploit the Hungarian employee by multinational companies or by any company, but to protect them and change the labour code in the direction that this cannot happen, I would certainly support this, I would definitely be a partner in this. But that's not the proposal. If we were to talk about changing the relations that prevent Hungarians from being with each other, to prevent the fight of life that Hungarians must continue, then I would certainly support this. This is not what these proposals are aimed at. [[19.40]] I ask you not to go in this direction. Because this thing just seems to be about what's open on Sunday and what's not. In fact, it is about what people are viewed as; whether we view people as thinking beings to whom we can trust decisions - of course we shape the legislative environment to make it easy for people to decide - or whether we regard people as a crowd to be controlled, who are constantly locked away from real decisions with bars and walls. I think that's a completely wrong direction for what you're representing here. If you really take on the values that you often like to talk about in connection with this proposal, then do not manage this proposal, then bring in the Labour Code and protect the employee. Then talk about why the Hungarian people in this country are terrified of losing their jobs, why hundreds of thousands of people are going abroad to prosper. Then talk about how to put the Hungarian families in a position where everyone is free to enjoy each other on Sunday, and do not be overwhelmed by the problems of the week. Talk about this and bring such legislation here, and then you can certainly have a more meaningful debate about it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-03-03-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr is coming from the MSZP Group to speak again. As a notary, you know that the President gives you the opportunity to speak again and depends on the President's consideration. I'll give you the floor as a close exception. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-168	I'm honored, Mr. President. And I'm trying not to put you in an awkward position, not to repeat, but to bring up new elements, things that can be linked to the bill. For Jobbik, I would like to note that the T-shirts should be removed and that the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary decision, which is in Parliament on the 40-year retirement of men, should be supported. T-shirts should not be put on in cases on which other parties had already taken initiatives years ago. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] If that's not enough, and then I'm out of this idea...
u2015-03-03-169	You're right, Congressman, if you'll step out of the way, because I'm about to take the floor.
u2015-03-03-170	Thank you very much. I'll finish the sentence, if Mr. President will allow me. Then make sure that their political group is present within Parliament's walls when it comes to voting. But back to the subject: I think Sunday is a special day for everyone. But no government and no political color can determine in what sense and in what direction it should be. Sunday's closing, Sunday's church, Sunday's work, Sunday's good Lord knows what else is all about Sunday and rest. When laws are born that are paternal, that tell people what to do, what to do, what to do, and even expand beyond that, tell them what they can't do, I don't think they're moving things forward. In Hungary, some 530,000 people work in the retail sector and sector. Very much, fortunately, thank God, true, for very little money. There are a lot of people working and, as Secretary of State, you know, there is a lot of money that comes out in terms of traffic: 8000-8500 billion forints, as far as I know. Now that this law has come to light - because I have no doubt it will be adopted - we have to face the fact that the sector that is the largest general traffic tax payer and the people employed in that sector are at a disadvantage. You are certainly not in close contact with the National Association of Entrepreneurs, but you know what this organization is. This organisation had opinions, views, opinions, warnings on why such a step should be considered very carefully, starting such a process, among others, but also independently of others. If you look at this story from a budgetary point of view, you have been drawn to your attention that it is estimated that about HUF 200-250 billion is the amount of money that is likely to fall out of the budget. I do not believe that today's Hungarian budget can sustain the loss of 200-250 billion forints. Do you know what this is all about? On the one hand, the number of tens of thousands likely to lose their job or earn less income - this is another 15-20 thousand - and their personal income tax payments will not increase but decrease. I recommend this to all of us because if we look at the 2013 closed year by the National Tax and Customs Office in terms of personal income tax payments, then we see that when 4.3 million people paid personal income tax, there are 2.2 million of them, so more than half of them whose income per month did not reach the minimum of living. This is likely to include a very, very large proportion of retail workers. You understand what I'm saying, more than half of the people, not according to what Gúr said, but according to the National Tax and Customs Office's statements, don't get the income that would amount to the minimum of living on a monthly basis. If we think about this, we will be able to decide why, for example, at the level of trade, it is necessary to ensure the possibility of working on Sundays from the point of view of the worker; it is not to be forced, no, to provide the opportunity. And I didn't tell you about the other half, that there was a demand for it anyway. You're facing a real need. They face people's customs, established customs, those that are not torsos, those that are inevitable. Our children go to kindergarten, school, parents who have children can also work in good times, and therefore the days of seven Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays are not really suitable for the family's necessary types of shopping that are not only about food, but also about the child's shoes or clothes. Think about your own life. The vast majority of these purchases are conducted by each of us at the end of the week. And the weekend is two days and Saturday is Sunday. Now you're going to eliminate one of these hips and wrists. Not only does the story violate customary rights, but it takes away the possibility that families can normally satisfy the need that is integral to or belonging to their daily lives. And if I have already said that the budget will suffer an estimated loss of HUF 200-250 billion, then what else if the introduction of a new tax does not bring this story to nothing. [[19.50]] I believe that a Christian party with a spirit of thinking should not support this, but should curb it. It is not the imposition of new taxes that help people, but how and how to avoid imposing new taxes. And there are two other things to add to this: one is that if I look not at the families, but at those who do work on Sunday, then, once again, I confirm that it is a matter of meat for them, derived from exactly what I said in the previous series; just because of the fact that 2.2 million out of 4.3 million people do not earn the minimum living. And what's a shame is that over the last five years, scissors have opened up between the minimum wage's purchasing power and the minimum wage - it's expanded. And what's a shame is that we don't go any other way, except at the point of mention, that there are, let's say, people in the public sector, to whom you first paid 47,000 wages, you've lost a third of your salary. But let's go there, because they don't do business in retail. But the fact that we are talking about a meaty issue, I think you can consult with a calm spirit. Believe me, people don't want to be told and told all the time, or banned from things that have a profit or a return for them. They either provide the opportunity to satisfy customs, or on the other hand, they create the opportunity to make money, the basis for a safer living. This whole story, as we got here, can be derived from a calm spirit, let us say, from the beginning of 2012, which, in other contexts, has already been mentioned by my fellow Member, László Kiss, from the Code of Work. When you made a radical shift in which 708, if my memories did not deceive me and I think they did not cheat, you were not willing to support one of the 708 amendments; then, after that time, in a sense, the trade unions and the LIGA, who ran alongside you in these matters, took the lead in the cases and amendments and amendments that we had tabled at the time, so that you could talk about what you would do for the benefit of the people, no, do, let us have a chance to talk about this, it is strange in itself. But the weirdest thing is, you know what, Secretary of State? The weird thing is, you guys are able to talk about it and you're willing to do something about it, and you're not. They're acting in contradiction. You know, Szatmáry, you know, Harrach, you know, Becsó, you know, Mengyi, I could tell you some more names, our fellow Members are in direct conflict with each other, sometimes even against themselves - you know. If I have to, I can make a detailed list of all this in relation to this bill. Zsolt Becsó was here at the beginning of the debate and then left. I'm sorry, because it would have been nice to ask him and discuss the fact that what he is submitting on February 18, 2015 in relation to Sunday allowances, coupled with the increase to 100 percent, where did the 18th of February and the 1st of March go? - I don't know which one. Where'd he go these two weeks? Where'd he go, Mr. President? So, it is simply incomprehensible to me that a Member is submitting an amendment, which means that a clear position is being crushed and decapitated with the establishment of a 100 per cent wage supplement, and then two weeks after that, the opposite must be discussed between Parliament's walls. It's a measure that doesn't want to raise the question of Sunday's bonus to 100 percent, it wants to eliminate it, it wants to write it out of the story. It's just unacceptable! I think that we need to talk about these things in a way that is not confusing, contradictory, but to act and act in a way that is beneficial and profitable for a simple person who performs tangible work. If the Prime Minister has taken on this position, that is what he is talking about, it is the work of the coming years. Well, it could have been five years, until then, it should have been important, not just setting up a bunch of posters about how the minimum wage is growing. Yeah, well, his gross; his net is no, his value is less. The net is increasing, the value is less. Once again, Mr. Secretary of State, your net may grow slightly from 60 200 to 68 750, 2015. Only in the meantime, count on 19 percent inflation in these five years, and you will find out why this minimum wage is 5 thousand forints less than in 2010. It's a very simple story, you just have to count it. What I'm trying to say is, once again, in conclusion, you don't have to talk, and you don't have to talk and you don't have to do it messy and conflictingly, you have to do it. And really, for those people who do tangible work who do not want to leave this country, they do not want to become economic refugees. That's what you do. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-03-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Kiss is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-03-03-172	Thank you for the floor. Just allow me to share a brief experience. A few weeks ago, as a representative of the district, I thought it was important for me to meet the III. district opinion on this issue. Technically, we've been collecting experiences all over the district, talking to people. We listened to over a thousand opinions in Békásmegyer, Kaszásdűlő, Obuda, Csillaghegyen, or even on the Roman coast, all over the district. There were many who answered our questions, many who spoke to us. The survey of district questionnaires was that 92 percent of the respondents wanted this madness not to be introduced and were free to shop on Sunday after 15 March. Among them, I must say, there were some people who said that they themselves did not shop on Sunday, but they wanted the others to shop. And there were some, like, eight percent III. a district citizen who has said that he agrees with this proposal. I'm only telling you because it's my experience in my constituency. By the way, I think it's a good thing for everyone in their own constituency to have an open eye, because it's a good thing to get to know people's opinions, even if they think otherwise than we assume they are. I have also listened to the arguments of that 8 percent, and I can tell you that many times, by the way, the arguments I hear from you here have come back to me. I am not saying that these arguments do not exist at all. This is the ratio that came out of the III. in the district. I also convey their views when I tell them not to go in this direction. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-03-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, on behalf of Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-174	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Fellow Members! In fact, I would separate it because, unfortunately, my socialist fellow Members did not speak about the proposal at 95 percent compared to the proposal submitted. That's pretty much what they bring. It was all about a lot of things, starting with the cheap festival, but I think the essence of what this proposal is saying is that, by the way, the shortcomings of the commercial law that you adopted earlier in 2005, which came up in connection with the conduct of retail and wholesale in one place... - he is trying to deal with. [[20.00]] Indeed, it is proposed that none of the operators, other than small shops that can be opened in the family, should receive a competitive advantage. However, what has been said here, my fellow socialists, I am trying not to use your language, I am not in charge of protecting my fellow Members from KDNP, but I think that what you are doing as a left-wing party in relation to such a proposal is, at least, quite thoughtful to say another word. I do not know if you know that European left-wing parties across Europe are fighting for Sunday's rest day and its retention. For you, the left is clearly visible over and over again. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] It means nothing, the profits and the things stolen by dictatorship have been taken home and their principles have been sold, my fellow Members, you have clearly sold them. (Intercoms from the benches of MSZP. ) This is a left... I, too, have listened, fellow Members, to the nonsense they have said, it was not easy to contain yourself here, by the way (intercoms from the benches of the MSZP). But it will do, given the dignity of Parliament. When you are confronted with the fact that you have no position with the Left on a thank-you basis, this is clearly difficult for you to bear. [[Anita Beringes: Conscience, my fellow Member!]] But please study in Europe, and also examples where there is a debate within the European Union on whether this regulation is good or not, who are in favour of this regulation and who are against this regulation, and your position is a neoliberal position. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] If I try to determine very precisely the terminology of their left. The other thing I would like to say is that when you confront us, this debate may have been a more interesting point, what was the position of the government and Fidesz in 2011 on the matter, and what is now. Basically, as a result of your previous economic destruction, the government decided then that it was not a good time for this Sunday... [[Intercom from the benches of the MSZP.]] I'm talking about 2011, Congresswoman. In 2011, when the economy was in ruins, consumption declined in an unprecedented way in the previous period, after taking wages, 13 months' pensions, the internal retail itself was in the state that the government decided that, although it considered the proposal to be good, it did not consider it... [[Nándor Gúr: It had nothing to do with the 13th month pension, just so you know.]] Congressman, I've been listening to what you said. I think it was also invaluable, but I would ask you to listen to it and try to face certain...
u2015-03-03-175	Congressman, you are the notary of Parliament. Excuse me, Congressman, just a moment... Congressman, you are also a notary of the Parliament. I ask you very nicely to try to behave as a notary, Congressman. [[Nándor Gúr: Now I'm sitting here as a representative.]] Otherwise, I'm forced to apply the rules of the house to you. Don't do it! There you go. Keep going.
u2015-03-03-176	Thank you very much. So the reason why the government brought it back and why it was now able to decide to take action that really triggered social disputes - because it is a fact and a fact, as has been said here, that there have been surveys - is because the country is in a different economic situation and the circumstances are different. For example, internal consumption: what has been steadily decreasing during your period has been able to produce the largest domestic consumption in Europe over the last three years, which is also reflected in the commercial sector. This may not be taken into account, although I think that taking the facts into account should not hurt when assessing a proposal. On what you have said here, I believe that there is a case of hystericalisation and deliberate deception. You don't mean that either, and I also admit that there are Members here who may know the Code of Work better from their profession than I do, and you know that according to the Labour Code, by keeping certain commercial units open for a longer period of time on a weekday, no one can be further worked. So the Code of Work has those paragraphs that guarantee that in this case it should be applied in two shifts, that this opening hours can be provided by commercial units in two shifts, and that is precisely contrary to what you say, that is, that anyone here would lose their job. I'd like to respond to that, by the way. As has already been shown, it may still be clear from the market reaction, today there are about 30 thousand unfilled jobs in trade that they cannot fill. I would just like to point out that during your period, i.e. between 2002 and 2008, trade was completely unregulated, as many others, starting from the banking system, have lost about 50,000 jobs in trade. During your period, about 50,000 jobs were lost, and about 50 convenience stores closed every day during that period in trade. You can look at the statistics. Congressman, it's hard to argue with that, by the way. [[Nándor Gúr: It's not hard!]] Here, Member, she asked some rhetorical questions about how Members of Parliament and members of government can make a living from work five days a week or not. I think that this question is certainly justified, given that we already have such a broad interpretation of this debate today, how Members of Gábor Simon can put 240 million forints aside on the basis of five working days a week. [[László Kiss: Szijjártó 100 million. Interview from the benches of MSZP: Antal Rogán.]] You have unfortunately taken this debate to this level. I'm forced to ask you if when you tell me these things, you look in the mirror during this period. [[Anita Herring: We do. Márta Demeter: We can. Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Both are right!]] Thank you very much. In the end, I would like to say on the proposal that although this amendment was not intended in general to ban work on Sundays, I would say that you have put a system, a system, on the contrary, here, aside from their left-wing character, which operates in most countries of Europe. You, who usually refer to Europe, usually bring up European patterns as a reference for us, but it is worth saying, of course, that there are debates there. It is possible to argue that the five days included in the law on Sundays, as a debate in France, say, for 12 weekends, this is a debate. But basically, the Sunday rest day law operates from France to Germany, including the Benelux States, through Italy. You are criticising a European functioning system, and I believe that this shows that, overall, your position on this issue is entirely Janus-faced. I would like to continue to ask my fellow Members, since there is no debate on the general day of rest, and the proposal basically fills an earlier legislative gap, I would like to ask them to support the proposal in Sunday trade in order to create a level playing field for businesses on the market. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-03-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted on Thursday 5 March at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. From the MSZP Group, Mr László Kiss applied for a speech on the agenda entitled Tree of the Year. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-03-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I introduce you to this peaceful subject, let me have two thoughts. I've been a member of the MSZP since I was 16. I think that, quite simply, you are neither morally nor indeed in a position to lecture any of the socialist Members, or even me, about left-wingness. I honestly don't care what you think about it, who's left, who's not, I feel that way about myself, and I know how I feel about it. And I know you're in no condition to judge that. The second one. I think that although in this House...
u2015-03-03-179	Mr. Congressman, I'm sorry, you have no opportunity to respond to what has been said after the agenda. [[Nándor Gúr: That's why we should have argued.]]
u2015-03-03-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to continue what I started. I think that, after the agenda, it may be important that, if I have said on two occasions that you are constantly misusing the term neoliberal, I may need to do this teaching again. This could also be an opportunity after the agenda next week. However, I would now like to turn to the presentation that I have brought here, Mr President, with your permission. It's a peaceful thing, tree of the year. In my constituency there is the Swamp vineyard, a neglected or forgotten nature reserve in many places, and in this connection I remembered that it is worth talking about our natural values in this place, especially if they can play a significant role in history. [[20.10]] There's a German example. Since 1989, the tree of the year has been chosen in Germany every year. This may also be an opportunity for the publication of educational, scientific articles and promotional publications on the tree species chosen that year. This has been the case in Hungary since 1995, and it has been initiated at the National Forestry Association to do so and to introduce this movement. They focus primarily on tree species with forestry significance and cultural history or biological significance in Hungary. This happens every year, and within the framework of this movement, within the framework of the Tree of the Year movement, excellent publications on trees and our natural and environmental values are produced in the Forest Pages and other newspapers. Technically, it can be said that there is a place for this movement in the entire green literature, and that this movement reaches many schools, many places. A curatorium has been established to organize and complicate the tree movement of the year, proposing the species of the tree of that year every October of the previous year, and its members are teachers of the Faculty of Forest Engineering and Faculty of Wood Industry at the University of West Hungary and editor-in-chief of the Forestry Journals. So you can see that an absolute professional gremlin chooses this tree. In 2015, a classic Hungarian breed, the oak pedestal, was chosen as the tree of the year. Perhaps few know that it grows to 40 meters [40 m] high, and previously known in history there were specimens whose height was close to 50 meters [50 m]. The oldest specimen in Denmark can be between 1500 and 2000 years old, and it is frightening to think that a plant, a living creature, has lived among us for between 1500 and 2000 years. If you like it, we're talking about a plant the same age as our timeline. As a historian, I also think it is interesting to know what events this plant may have witnessed. Unfortunately, in our country, however, these large specimens have become very scarce. In 1871 the Botanical Lajos Simonkai reports in the village of Szabolcs County Fisherman a 40 - foot [30 m] high oak with a 14 - meter trunk. Unfortunately, these oaks are now very, very rare. For example, the recently destroyed tree district at the border of Zhennye in Vas County was 10 metres, so a similar tree was unfortunately destroyed in Vas County a few months ago. The oldest oak tree in Hungary is estimated to be 700 years old. Hedervár, XV. The so-called Árpád tree, decorated next to a small church built in the century, is considered to be the oldest tree. It is shocking that it is also a 700 - year - old plant, but the people call it a thousand - year - old, and there is a serious local tradition of respect for wood and wood. I think that if we think a little about the fact that the world around us may as well be a witness of old ages, up to 700-1000-year-old trees and plants among us, it will well show how much responsibility we have for our Earth, our environment, for future generations. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-03-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Mrs Márta Demeter also applied for a post-meeting speech from the MSZP Group:. Performance? It's no longer a matter of perspective. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-03-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to read from an article published a week ago atv.hu. With a national recitation, the National Association Office of the Ministry of Defence would like to achieve our upcoming national celebration as a symbol of cooperation, it is clear from the documents acquired by atv.hu. The Ministry of Defence of Hungary has issued a call to the Hungarians for joint recitation. They want local residents to march there on 15 March, at 3:00 p.m. on every settlement that has a public area named after Kossuth, Petőfi or 15 March, and recite the National Song together. The aim is to strengthen the sense of national cooperation with a shared experience. The Ministry of Defence National Event Planning Office requests the assistance of district Registrars. According to the plan, the government offices will forward the call to the district offices, who will assess how many people in the settlements would like to say poems together. They hope that hundreds of settlements will take part in the 5-10-minute movement. And I would like to quote from the article a little further: the document shows that they would make videos of the recitations with the local youths, but the staff of the government.hu would take pictures of the larger meetings. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we agree that a very significant event of our nation on 15 March, and I think that the fact itself, the knowledge of the National Song, is a recitation of this as a cultural event, whether in educational institutions, public institutions or in public areas, can be a very beautiful and noble thing, if it actually has a cultural purpose. I have two serious problems with this situation personally. One is that, as I quoted from the article, the staff of government.hu would have video recordings of these events. That is why, I think, according to our experience so far, our experience with the Orbán regime has shown that it can and may have a strong propagandity taste, and I think that the suspicion is that I might want to use this for party policy purposes, as we have very unfortunately seen in the past many years, even with regard to the cocaine. Another serious problem is that from this year on, the state event organisation was given the Ministry of Defence as a task. He received not only this task, but also the corresponding source, which is exactly HUF 760 million. If the organisation of public events and this National Event Planning Office organises events that raise the suspicion that there may be propaganda, then I think it could be very dangerous that this could burn to the name of the Hungarian Defence Ministry, the Hungarian Defence Office. I think we saw at a Fradi stadium inauguration a case where the military was clearly used for political propaganda steels. We never want to see such a case again, because it's not an increase in ability. Minister Csaba Hende clearly confirmed in the budget debate and several times since then that this HUF 760 million, which means taking over state event planning tasks, clearly increases the budget of the defence, which may also be a numerical fact, but I do not think that it will increase the capacity of the Hungarian Defence Agency at any level. I don't think the Department of Defense is supposed to do that. 'Cause what's your job? Developing abilities. Its task is to ensure that the stock actually receives the wage development that they were promised, giving them the guarantees, as it was a long time ago, since the Orbán government has done nothing to ensure that the stock is properly paid. And its task is to develop technical tools to ensure that the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces is adequate, which is at the moment, that it will survive, only because our soldiers provide excellent service. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-03-183	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Thank you for the work of the Parliamentary Office staff, thank you for keeping the record. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. The meeting's closed. I wish you all good night and a happy return home. [[Meeting ended at 20:20 p.m.]]
