u2015-04-07-0	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The 19th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that József Attila Móring and Ádám Mirkóczki will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of a new State Secretary. I invite notary József Attila Móring to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2015-04-07-1	For the President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, with effect from 1 April 2015, I appointed Dr. Mariann Water East as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Budapest, 31 March 2015 Sincerely: János Áder [[Dr. Mariann of the Water East, seated in the box, stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and on the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, with effect from 1 April 2015, I appointed Dr. Mariann Water East as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Budapest, 31 March 2015 Sincerely: János Áder. (Dr. Mariann Water East, located in the box, stands up. - Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. )
u2015-04-07-2	Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State on her appointment and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, I declare that last Thursday, the House Committee held an extraordinary meeting and, in the absence of consensus, did not complete the agenda. This means that today we will start our work with speeches before the agenda, then from noon to 2:30, then we will have an hour of immediate questions and answers from about 1:30 to 3:30, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. According to this, Mr András Schiffer was the first person to apply for a speech before the agenda: with a title "More for less." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-04-07-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Last week, a series of data from Eurostat revealed that the Hungarian worker costs 10 euro cents less than last year. This means that there are four countries behind Hungary today in terms of wage levels in the European Union, and we can add that more than 23 percent of the money the average Hungarian worker makes is not actually a wage. The situation is that while the average hourly rate of Hungarian workers in 2008 was EUR 7.8, in 2014 EUR 7.3. This means, as the LMP has been saying since 2011 that the Hungarian people have been working more for less money since the code of exploitation. And to be more precise: since last year, there have been two European Union countries outside Hungary, where wages have fallen, Greece and Cyprus. Last week, the LMP initiated a five-party consultation on the reduction of workers' poverty, the reduction of workers' poverty, and here, too - let's see a miracle - only Fidesz did not appear. You guys seem to still be blowing the old password, and only one principle will be enforced, that's just Fidesz! The problem is that the password is becoming more and more common among people, that it is not the Fidesz. This five-party consultation was initiated by us for the following reasons. We see, and this is shown by the raw figures, that in Hungary two thirds of the taxpayers' earnings are below the average wage. In Hungary, the proportion of people living in income poverty, i.e. workers, is more than 14 percent, which means 1.5 million people. The difference between the lower and the upper income tenths has increased to 1:9 times. In addition, there are data that currently the minimum wage is 76 per cent, the minimum wage gross over five years, i.e. 43 per cent under the system of national cynicism, while the net has increased by 15 per cent. Public sector wages have not increased in general and not in a single segment since 2008; workers' poverty is one third in the public sector. The situation is that the real income of the poorest two million people in Hungary has decreased by 20%. Hungary has been on a course in the last 25 years, where the elites who govern Hungary thought that there should be a assembly country, there are two conditions for this - that is what you and your predecessors thought - on the one hand, the forced, degrading wages and the deteriorating working conditions and, on the other hand, the brutal withdrawal of money from education. The situation today is that you have concluded this with a policy that, in order to recapitalize the national bourgeoisie, stone-hard money will be withdrawn from the bottom, so the cost of the enrichment of millions of people in the previous cycle is previously Simicska and Nyerges, now Mészáros, Garancsi and his accomplices. Compared to this, we have tried to get partners between the parliamentary parties on five proposals. The LMP believes that, in order to reduce workers' poverty, the first step is to increase the net minimum wage to at least the minimum level of living, without increasing the burden on employers. This is linked to the reduction of employee contributions and the introduction of a multi-key 12-24-36 percent fair sja system. As a second point, we propose and demand that family allowances and family allowances extend to the age of 24 for children in higher education so that as many families as possible can educate their children. Thirdly, we demand wage increases in the public sector in order to prevent further poverty and emigration of public sector workers. We also put a proposal on the table - and this was tabled last week by my fellow Members in the form of a bill - to reduce the burden on micro and small businesses with low incomes. On the fifth, we put a proposal on Parliament's table to reduce the VAT on basic locally produced foodstuffs to 5%. These would be the first steps. Permanently, people will earn more in Hungary if the HUF 250 billion that has been taken out of the register of education can be put back if the share of R &amp; D and innovation in Hungary is not 1.2 percent, but at least 2-3 percent. In this way, instead of a poor, poor, assembly country, it is possible to outline the image of a renewable Hungary for Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-4	Sándor Czomba wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-04-07-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start by saying that maybe there's something we can agree on. Perhaps you agree that fighting poverty is best achieved if there are more jobs, if the proportion of people living on the job and wages increases. I would like to inform you of the welcome fact that, in 23 years, as many people have not worked in Hungary as they do today, and the vast majority have been due especially to jobs in the competitive sector, the primary labour market, since the second half of 2013. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] In which you are arguing with us, I would like to draw your attention to the impact of the Hungarian government on wages, in general, on wages. It is possible primarily to set minimum wage and guaranteed minimum wage [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the public sector's wages.]] , since this is regulated by a government regulation, and since 2010 it has been agreed with employers' and employees' interest representatives every year, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have forecasted an increase of 3.4 per cent this year as well as a wage recommendation of between 3 and 4 per cent, and this is coming across very well, as it is apparent that companies have set the increase in average earnings to about this magnitude. Allow me a few more figures. Technically, I can say that in the last four years, the real value of salaries increased by almost 11 percent on average with family benefits, with no family benefits being 5.2 percent. [[11.10]] If we look at it on a gross basis, the guaranteed minimum wage and minimum wage increased by nearly 40 percent between 2011 and 14 years. It is also worth adding that there are more than four million people working in Hungary today, of which about 250 000 people work on minimum wages and about 500 thousand guaranteed minimum wages. So when we argue about why the minimum wage is so low, of course, there is no doubt that if the minimum wage increases, it has a push-up effect on average wages, but in itself I do not want to overestimate the problems and questions raised in connection with the minimum wage and wage negotiations. Another interesting question is that when we look into it, it is worth examining the minimum or the poverty threshold, because one is an opportunity by the OECD, so it gives us an international outlook, and the other is almost a Hungaricum, because the statistics take into account a completely different system of considerations in relation to the minimum of living. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, while in 2011, the minimum wage and the minimum wage ratio were around 70 percent, it has now increased to 76 percent, and in the context of the negotiations, when we spoke to the employer's side, we wanted to achieve that if we managed to raise this rate to 80 percent. 100 percent would now mean that 87 500 HUF should be the net of the minimum wage, the gross of this, if we line it up, I am most likely to tell you that a few tens of thousands, but possibly 100 to 200 thousand people, would most likely lose their jobs in sectors where the minimum wage is significant, such as trade or part of the service sector. So it is very important to be careful about wage negotiations and wages in general. The main aspect is that wages can only be increased by performance. There was an example before 2010 that we were practically increasing from credit, and the result is visible. The result is that, even in the period 2011-12, the Hungarian economy continued to moan that wages had flowed out without funding. This path must not be followed and we do not want to follow it. Of course, with the increase in performance and the growth of the economy, we will be able to increase wages not only in the competitive sector, but also in the service and public sector, as has happened in teachers, law enforcement workers, and we will continue to miss significantly in the social sector, which we are trying to make up for. So I would like to point out once again to the honourable Member that it is important and important for the Hungarian Government that real earnings grow and that all Hungarians can buy more of this at net level, but here we must be careful not to endanger Hungarian jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-6	To speak before the next agenda, Mr Tamás Harangozó spoke with the title of immediate indemnification and accountability instead of brokerage. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-7	Dear Parliament, More than a month has passed since Hungary's biggest financial fraud series was discovered. The broker scandals, especially the Quaestor case, slammed it in the face of the whole country, what a shameful, corrupt leadership our country has. I'm not going to dissect specific details of the Quaestor case. Our questions today, our immediate questions, will provide the government with an opportunity to clarify the situation, or even more likely to respond to more and more lies, a disproved speech, in which they will disprove each other and themselves. With all their sentences, their struggles, they only sink themselves deeper into the swamp. This case has outgrown itself. Like a drop in the sea, it has the essence of their entire government. It is an essence of your political and economic rampage, in which we see, in abundance, everything that has been done so far and countless times. There is not only one Quaestor case, but the entire government is a Quaestor government; it is a broker's government, which has not only been involved in the company's suspicious business, but has acted in the same way as the cheating company in a small way. He abused the trust of the easy believers, promised, took, and spent their money for his own purposes, and he wanted to shift responsibility to someone else. Just think, what would my pro-government fellow Members say if, during the MSZP government, they found out that the sports friend of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the businessman in confidence with the Prime Minister, along with a cheating agricultural diplomat, was entrusted with an important diplomatic, foreign economic task, illegally entrusting him with state money, and having their eyes closed over his frauds for years, and then letting him cheat 150 billion from common people. What would you say if it turned out that from the bankrupt company, the Prime Minister would only take the money from the wallets in secret, taking the money that is still available from the other victims, and not alerting the police, the D.A., financial supervision? What would you say if the D.A.'s office, headed by an ex-president of the government party, didn't have enough reason to question the illegal issuance of the HUF 150 billion bond, or that the company manager had set up a public servant with a criminal record to replace the company? We know exactly the answer: with the cooperation of Jobbik and Fidesz, Budapest would be on fire. My fellow members of the Government, it is not your job to assist in the lies of Viktor Orbán and his brokerage. They need to see and feel that every day they just pull themselves down in the dirt until the compensation for the victims is resolved by the National Assembly, and until they assume responsibility for those who are apparently up to their necks in this case. Last Tuesday, MSZP presented a bill that would allow extraordinary and immediate compensation for the victims. It would do so by pre-empting the amount of the assets seized by the State, or by contributing a non-refundable amount to the compensation, as the MNB would have had to do to prevent the damage from occurring. Thus, up to HUF 6 million, all those involved would get their money immediately, and the state would collect the advance later. With this solution, more than 22,000 victims could get a hundred percent of their money trapped inside right away. You, Members of Parliament, are now expected to help those in distress. Instead, with László Fat's small-time and petty action last week, he prevented us from discussing this proposal in substance, and we could have voted on it today. But, Mr Fat, by assisting the Fidesz, he did not convene the House Committee for the date we had designated, so the issue was not on the agenda. What we expect you to do next week is to decide on the compensation of the victims in the same way as we did last week on the Fidesz proposal to extend the lock-up; not for the sake of the MSZP, my fellow Members, for the benefit of the many tens of thousands of small families. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, that is why there are at least two government members involved in this matter who have already failed politically. The question is, when will they be legally held accountable? Every day, every hour and every minute that Péter Szijjártó and Sándor Fazekas, who squandered 410 million, spend in his ministerial seat, is a disgrace to the whole country, but most of all it is a disgrace to Fidesz. In fact, from the point of view of Fidesz, this is not only a disgrace, but one of the main causes of the crisis of confidence. You know that. Do something about it. Szijjárto and Potter must go. They can't get away with this. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-07-8	Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, has indicated that he wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-04-07-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Dear House, It must have been a slip of the tongue that the Hungarian Socialist Party is not concerned about Buda-Cash's clients, but only about Quaestor's clients. At Buda-Cash we're talking about 96 301 clients, at Quaestor we're talking about 31,000 clients. Once again, I leave it to everyone's imagination why the Hungarian Socialist Party is only worried about the 31,000 clients and not about the 96,000 clients. Maybe it's just not because Buda-Cash is connected to a thousand strings... [[Moors and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] - in Buda-Cash, are there thousands of crimes connected to the Hungarian Socialist Party? [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Talk about Szijjártó! Zoltán Lukács intervenes.]] 97 percent of Buda-Cash's 96 301 customers will be compensated by the Investor Protection Fund by 31 May. So once again, over 90,000 small investors are compensated by the Investor Protection Fund. [[Zoltán Lukács: Then you answered!]] Among Quaestor's clients, of which 31,832 customers are known, 22 264 depositors are compensated by the Investor Protection Fund. These investments were made for investments not exceeding HUF 6 million, i.e. 100% compensation for small investors. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: You're such a liar!]] Once again, I would like to emphasise that small investors will receive 100% of the compensation. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Why? Because Rogán asked for it, that's why?]] [[11.20]] Those who are concerned about the Hungarian Socialist Party are the 10,000 investors who have placed more than HUF 6 million at one of the companies of the Quaestor Group. Of course, we have to worry about them too, which is why the Parliament has decided to adopt a law on the preservation of property on the proposal of the Fidesz Members, and, as we know from the news, the court has now closed much more than the supposed amount of damage. This amount, this amount available for a certain insurance measure, will cover part of the confiscation of property, which is clearly after the prosecution and the determination of criminal liability, and partly the civil claims. So once again, the investments of small investors will be paid by the Investor Protection Fund, who have deposited a deposit of less than HUF 6 million or placed a larger amount, but will provide their small investments up to HUF 6 million. And the larger investors, who have obviously risked more, will be forced to wait for criminal liability to be established. All assistance will be given to the authorities by representatives of the government. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] If the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party are interested in the state of criminal proceedings, they can, of course, not ask the government, but the Attorney General, as has already been done. In a few words, let us return to the accusations made here by the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You said very nicely that Hungarian Socialist Party.]] I can say otherwise, but I call it the Hungarian Socialist Party at this moment. The facts therefore show that small investors' money, small investors' investments, are safe. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: That's not true!]] Small investors will receive compensation from the Investor Protection Fund. The question then arises as to why this whole matter is good for the Hungarian Socialist Party. Of course, he's only good for accusing the government of something he didn't do. An example of this is the fact that two ministers are being forced to resign because of completely conflicting behaviour. In one case, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made arrangements to withdraw the investment and in the other case the Minister of Agriculture because the money remained in the Quaestor Group. [[There's a constant murmur in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So they want to cancel one because he took the money and the other because he didn't take the money. Obviously, the Hungarian Socialist Party's opinion is worth that much. They cannot decide what the greater responsibility is for them, if someone takes action to secure public funds, or if they do not take out public money. I can already hear the answer to both of them resign from their point of view. This attitude is the best way to know that this is just a political hack campaign by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-10	Speaking before the next agenda, MEP László Földi came forward:. What experiences did the domestic supply of gas during the winter period end, and what did the government do to secure gas supply? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Following the March 2014 Crimean referendum and the previous events in Ukraine, as well as the Russian-Ukrainian crisis following the referendum, the issue was again on the agenda after 2009, how EU countries could guarantee the security of gas supply to their consumers if there were problems in the transport of Russian gas destined for Europe via Ukraine. In the changed geopolitical situation, the primary objective for all countries, including Hungary, had to be to increase the security of their own gas supply in order to preserve the country's economic viability and ensure the smooth supply of consumers. The government has sought to use all possible means to guarantee energy security. Accordingly, in addition to internal national measures, significant efforts have also been made on the international stage. The analysis on the basis of the national energy strategy adopted by the Parliament in 2011 included the fact that Hungary's security of supply is vulnerable by meeting our demand for gas with natural gas from Russia, the largest proportion of which will reach our country through the Brotherhood gas pipeline. The national energy strategy has therefore identified increasing domestic extraction and commercial and strategic stockpiling as an important tool to ensure the security of our natural gas supply, in addition to diversification of sources and transport routes for imports. In recent years, the government has taken a number of steps to exploit the strategic benefits of storage in line with the national energy strategy. By purchasing storage facilities that guarantee the security of supply throughout the country, it has increased the state's involvement. As a result of a long negotiation process, by purchasing E.ON's interests in the natural gas industry in Hungary, it has enabled Hungarian companies to operate again the storage facilities of the largest capacity of Zanai, Hajduszoboszló, Szabadericsi and Szakoskút. The development of European and international energy forces has highlighted the role of regional cooperation in recent years, the intensity and further development of which can significantly help to strengthen the security of supply not only in Hungary but throughout the region. With this in mind, the government considered that storage capacities would contribute to the realisation of regional market ideas in the country. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State with respect the experience of domestic gas supply during the winter period and what the government has done to secure gas supply. I look forward to your reply. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-12	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski, for a rejoinder.
u2015-04-07-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Imports, including natural gas from Russia, play a key role in the supply of gas not only in Hungary but also in the EU, therefore guaranteeing the security of energy supply is a priority in all Member States of the European Union. This is supported by the decision of the last European Council on measures to increase energy security, aimed at ensuring a safe, affordable and sustainable energy supply for consumers. When preparing the decision of the European Council, a positive compromise was reached for Hungary, and our aim is to fully enforce Hungarian interests in the implementation process. As you have mentioned, the past period has given the government much to do to ensure security of supply. I believe that the results confirm the success of our work, because, in addition to the continued supply of gas, security of supply has been guaranteed throughout this year's heating season. In addition, in addition to guaranteeing domestic security of supply, we have been able to make a significant contribution to the supply of gas to Serbia and Ukraine, which is in a very difficult situation, in order to meet the needs of consumption. According to the combined data of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, domestic gas consumption in the winter period in 2014-15 exceeded the value recorded in 2013-14. Between 1 December 2014 and 15 March 2015, a total of 4 billion 190 million cubic metres of gas was lost, which is 0.22 billion cubic metres more than a year earlier. Public gas consumption was mostly influenced by the change in average temperature, which was only 2.6 degrees Celsius compared to the average temperature of 3.4 degrees Celsius last year. At the same time, even under even harsh weather conditions, the domestic natural gas system would have provided consumers with supplies, all because, in addition to domestic natural gas production, we managed to ensure a continuous and secure supply of natural gas from Ukraine, so that imports arrived in the country at the right time and quantity. [[11.30]] In addition, stocks were also available in commercial storage, so that significant security of natural gas stocks were not used until the end of the heating period. Speech data on the security of gas supply in Hungary in the last winter is that we had more than 1 billion cubic metres more gas in our storage unit at the end of the storage period than the highest level of charge achieved at the end of the 2013 storage period. Thanks to the stored stocks, even at the end of March 2015, there was nearly 1.5 billion cubic metres of natural gas in domestic storage. The government and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office also took a lot of measures last year to increase the security of gas supply, which contributed greatly to the fact that one of the highest quantities of natural gas in Hungary, above 50 per cent per year, were available. I highlight the most important of the measures. By amending the Ministerial Decree, the security stock has been increased by 300 million cubic metres, so it is currently 915 million cubic metres. In order to increase stocks, Hungarian Electricity Company Zrt. provided an exemplary HUF 100 billion ownership loan in the sector. the purchase of approximately 800 million cubic metres of natural gas. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office has reviewed the regulation of system usage charges in order to encourage supplies and entry into storage associated with increasing winter security. As a result, it reduced the charges for entry into storage by more than half. The amendment of the natural gas regime, which entered into force on 1 July 2014, ensured that market participants could make their additional supply and storage capacity deposits, which resulted in an increase in their domestic storage stock, in a preferential way, so-called interruptible capacity. On this basis, honourable Member and honourable Parliament, it is clear that we have taken effective measures. But as soon as the previous heating season is over, we are already taking steps in early April 2015 to ensure that the necessary gas volumes are made available with similar security in 2015-2016. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-07-14	János Volner applied for a speech before the next agenda:. What public relations did Fidesz and MSZP leave behind? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We're approaching an election in Tapolca. You need to see exactly what the choice is for people who live in that constituency, and what the election is at national level, why it is worth choosing Jobbik. It's time to see where this country's gotten in the last 25 years. A two-pole political arrangement was formed On one side the Fidesz stood, on the other side the left stood, the MSZP, then even as a single block. These two political groups gave and bought and exchanged power between themselves. When people got tired of one of them, they let them go, the other came, and when they got bored, they called back the last one without a better one. This bipolar political arrangement was broken by Jobbik in 2010, going into the Parliament as a middle party. Immediately the Hungarian politics changed, and a three-polar arrangement developed. But what have we seen so far? We have seen that, while there have been very many personal conflicts here, on the parliamentary stage, socialist and fidesz politicians are among themselves, in the background economic interest groups are working as consortium partners in making thousands of billions from public procurement disappear together. This is why in Hungary it costs twice as much a kilometer of motorway as in a neighbouring country, and this is why there is never any accountability, because everyone, Fidesz and the MSZP are sitting on this boat, and anyone who would want this boat to be grounded with an account is sinking with it. Raven doesn't dig the raven's eyes out. The Quaestor case clearly points out that this responsibility is shared. Quaestor was guaranteed by the Development Bank for HUF 16.9 billion during the period of socialist governments, and the report was filed in 2010 by the Fidesz government. There was no accountability in the Quaestor case. For example, for 12 years, the previous broker scandal, the Key Price case, has not been held accountable. So much for which government wants to account for those responsible. That hasn't even happened in the Key Price case to this day. One thing can be seen: both during the period of socialist governments and at Fidesz, those responsible have always escaped, and people's money has always disappeared, the country has become poor. When we look at Tapolca, Sümeg, Ajka and the surrounding settlements, people have to choose whether they want the last 25 years to continue with this downfall, lack of accountability, squandering, stealing the country's money, or a Jobbik representative who can represent the constituency as a conscientious, prestigious person. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: National Russian property.]] It is also important to see that the difference between Fidesz and Jobbik has now narrowed to 200,000 voters, the situation has become extremely intense, and according to some information leaked from Fidesz, the Fidesz itself is afraid of a better victory in the constituency, because the candidate for the Jobbik Tapolca and the Fidesz candidate are standing next to his head. And the MSZP only cares about one thing: that Jobbik should not win, possibly even with Fidesz this mandate. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We beat you both in Veszprém, we will beat you now.]] But it is well known that the MSZP is out of this race. This issue has not been mentioned in the speech before the agenda; they themselves are practically not taking part in this election. This election will be decided between Jobbik and Fidesz, and the votes on the left will be lost. I call to the attention of the voters of Tapolca and the citizens of Hungary: it is a matter of taste whether we talk too much, whether we, the better representatives, talk too much about the affairs of Hungarians and the affairs of Hungarians. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Russian property.]] But one thing is certain: we love this country, and we would do anything for this country. The man we're going to ask for trust in Tapolca is a man who loves this country, loves Tapolca and its surroundings, and will do anything to represent the people who live there. But he doesn't want to benefit them as, say, socialist governments or Fidesz did by taking their money, but by serving these people and doing their best within the legal framework. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-16	Thank you. Secretary of State L. Simon László has indicated that he will respond.
u2015-04-07-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, A possible description of the internal political process of recent years is that it has turned from bipolar to tripolar. My right-wing fellow Members are constantly trying to bring together the socialist government, the socialist-free Democratic coalition and the Fidesz political group, which effectively governs the period from 98 to 2002. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I agree with that.]] Between 1998 and 2002, the only period since the change in regime was when the government debt was reduced when Hungary did as much as possible to achieve its own sovereignty. This process broke in 2002, and between 2002 and 2010, the socialists raised the public debt almost and even more than double, from 51 percent to 83 percent of GDP. I think it speaks for itself. Washing the period between 98 and 2002 and now the period between 2010 and 2014 together with the period 2002-2010 is clearly a lie and a political slander. When you speak of a three-pole political force, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is much more appropriate to use the political term introduced by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in 2010, namely, the concept of the central force. The central force just means, honourable Members, that there is a central political space that is constantly working consistently, free of extremes, for the prosperity of the country and the nation - this is the alliance of Fidesz and KDNP - keeping away from political extremes, whether on the right or on the left. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] [[11.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Your candidate is a man in the Tapolca election district who is openly racist. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] sharing anti-Semitic content on the Internet [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] - Let me finish this sentence, you openly share racist content on the Internet, and then you lie to the voters that he only shared these content on Facebook because he couldn't comment on them any other way. We all know that's not true. Whoever uses the Internet knows it's not true. You should finally decide which statement is true, what your candidate embodys with his own personality, or what Gábor Vona said in an interview not so long ago: where they are Jewish, I am Jewish. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] - says Gábor Vona. Then, if that is the case, honourable Members, then obviously your President and Group leader should be the first to distance themselves from the better man. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] a candidate for representative who openly shares racist content on the Internet. But let's be fair, though, the candidate supported by the left can have at least such an outrageous performance. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Tell me!]] We can start an old union cadet, who is MAL Zrt., by the way. As a member of the supervisory board, he did not grab the shovel and stood in the front row during the red sludge disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure János Volner: Fidesz does not fear the victory of Jobbik. Fidesz works consistently in that constituency, campaigning [[Előd Novak: Gábor Kubatov himself!]] I myself participated in the campaign in several settlements, residential forums. People look forward to Fidesz's candidate, Zoltán Fenyvesi, who proved his way of life. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What?]] Vice-President of the county government, school principal, has consistently represented the people living there on a teaching career for 28 years. [[György Szilágyi: At least you know his name! Foreman Novak: The people of Castle Palace!]] He works for the young, the children, the people who live here. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are ashamed of this school system, Congressman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz is not terrified of Jobbik's victory, Hungarian Democrats are terrified of Jobbik's victory. Good Hungarians are terrified of it, they're terrified of it. [[Foreman Novak: People's Front!]] that extremes, that extremes will be given even more power, but we trust people, we trust voters. [[They don't believe in you!]] And we will do our best to vote for Fidesz candidate, Zoltán Fenyvesi. The affairs of the Hungarian people, my honourable fellow Member, I think that the Government and the MPs of the Government speak as much as possible. We also love this country, we also love this national community, we proudly declare ourselves Hungarian. In this Parliament, we were the ones who put a new constitution before the Parliament. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Alone!]] We adopted the law on witnessing for national inclusion, and we were the ones who changed the citizenship law in such a way that the institution of Hungarian citizenship was extended to Hungarians across the border. Therefore, I must reassure everyone from here, the government and the governing parties will continue to stand by the unity of the nation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-18	Speaking before the next agenda Mr Gulyás Gergő, Gergely [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr Vice-President: The stakes of the interim elections in Tapolca. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-04-07-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has already been shown in the previous debate here, on Sunday there will be an interim election of representatives in Tapolca, Ajka, Tapolca, Sümeg and some 80,000 voters in the settlements in the region can express their views in a democratic framework. We believe that it is important to determine what is at stake in this election and what is no longer at stake. The two-thirds majority of the governing parties will not be at stake, since the voters have already decided on this in Veszprém. The stakes are, therefore, that the interests of the people in the region will be represented in the Parliament for the three years ahead. We believe that the candidate of the governing parties has the best chance of doing so not only because, as a candidate for government, it is always easier for an area to lobby as an opposition - not impossible from the opposition - but because the candidate of the Fidesz-KDNP is the most suitable candidate to represent the interests of the people of Tapolca, Ajkan, Sümegen and nearby settlements in the Parliament. Zoltán Fenyvesi taught for more than 25 years Ajkán, he knows the city well, he knows Tapolca well, he knows the problems of the people in the region and he sees the possibilities of that region. It is also his political role and his presence in the Parliament, with any hope, that the policy that could continue to show indisputable results that began in 2010 and which today led to the virtual elimination of inflation in Hungary, that real wage growth over the past year and a half was noticeable, that the budget deficit was 2.5 per cent in an election year - let us remember that when the Socialist Party managed to win the 2006 election in a lie, they caused a budget deficit of almost 10 per cent that year - that the government debt was falling and that one of the highest economic growth in the 28 Member States of the European Union was 3.5 per cent in Hungary in the last year. We believe that continuing this policy at national level is also a guarantee if Zoltán Fenyvesi is honoured by the people in the region with their trust. But in local cases, we also see that Zoltán Fenyvesi, who is already a candidate of representatives, has excellent results, the health government corrected the previous decision in 2012, and therefore the hospital in Tapolca will receive HUF 2.3 billion in support. As a result, the development of emergency medical care in Tapolca will be greater than before this summer. A new rescue station will be set up to provide a permanent on-call for residents. These were already achieved as candidates at the initiative of Zoltán Fenyvesi. These have been decided by the government, and the necessary resources will be provided to the region this year and in the coming years. And we also see who their opponents are, and it's worth talking about, Jobbik always asks for the accusation of extremism. It would be easier not to ask for the charge, but to start people who cannot be branded with a full stamp. Unfortunately, it is not possible to say that this stamp is not entirely justified for the right candidate to be launched in the region. Mr Secretary of State has explained this for a longer time. We believe that it is in everyone's interest to start people with fundamental democratic convictions everywhere. We would like to see Jobbik succeed in the future, and we would be particularly pleased if the voters did not appreciate the departure of the candidate very far away from it. And indeed, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot boast with its candidate, the candidate of the Hungarian Socialist Party is MAL Zrt. He was in his supervisory board when the tragic red sludge disaster occurred, and he didn't think he should resign when the executives said after the disaster that caused the deaths of several people that the red sludge wasn't toxic. I believe that this is a measure of how he stood up to the disaster and what happened there, and I think that voters should also appreciate this when deciding who should represent the people in the region. We therefore believe that Zoltán Fenyvesi can be put to the attention of voters, not just because of pro-government support. We ask everyone to take part in the democratic competition and vote, to exercise their suffrage, and if they think that Zoltán Fenyvesi is the best candidate, as we think, then they will be supported by their vote in this Sunday's election. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-20	In return, I will give the opportunity to Secretary of State L. Simon.
u2015-04-07-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech, in fact, for the debate that we have just started with Mr Volner's speech. I am pleased that you have so nicely summarized the stakes of choosing the weekend before us. It is indeed a question of whether a Member will sit in Parliament who will find his way to the government, to the State Secretarys, to the ministers, and who can faithfully, with sufficient force, represent the people who live in the place, or who spends his time speaking opposition, speaking opposition voices, constantly abusively, and not by creating value, strengthening cooperation. Honourable Congressman, It seems to me that this is the best thing to do, Zoltán Fenyvesi, who I may know personally, whom I have met in the past week, for example, in Csabrendek or Káptalánfa. I have participated in public forums where citizens are open, where they expect the work that the government started in 2010 to continue. Two questions interest people in the area, basically. One of them is job creation, and as we have already heard in the debate before the agenda, the Orbán government has been able to achieve the most important results on this issue in the last 25 years. [[11.50]] Since 2010, the number of workers has increased by more than 400 thousand, and, of course, municipal mayors participating in the forums have also been affected and interested in the continuation of the public work programme, as the introduction of the public work programme is particularly important in the Tapolca, Lips, Sümeg and small settlements, but it has also achieved a lot of results in larger settlements. And the other issue, perhaps even more topical, is regional health care, as the Member said. Indeed, everyone is interested in how long it takes to get to Tapolca, whether from Sümeg Prague, Káptalanfa, or from Sümeg himself, where only a few functions now work for the former hospital, how long it takes to get to Ajka, and what health services the hospital in Tapolca and its lips provides for them. The government, as you said, will spend more than 2 billion forints on the development of Tapolca Hospital in the period ahead. [[György Szilágyi: Now. He wants me now.]] It will be translated now, and it is never too late to translate, honourable Members. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: You wanted to close it!]] My fellow Jobbik Members yell at me... - it is never too late to spend money on hospitals, health care and any social, health and cultural institution. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this government recognizes its responsibilities and recognizes the task ahead of it, so help always comes in time, always in time for the source provided by the government, the third Orbán government. Of course, the question of the new rescue station already mentioned by the Member is equally important, since today it is not only a question of the quality of health care that our fellow countrymen in the countryside can receive, but also of how quickly they will reach the nearest hospital for life-saving surgery and help. The new rescue station is of strategic importance in this respect, and the Tapolcans may feel that the government is at their side even though the settlement has a better mayor. It also shows that the Orbán government does not distinguish between settlements and settlements according to [[István Apáti: Yes, you can!]] that he has an opposition or pro-government leader. [[István Apáti: That's a lie! An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] This government is in the interest of all Hungarian citizens, and we also pay attention to our fellow citizens, we also help and serve those who did not vote for us, not for our political assembly. We promise from here, too, that this will continue in the future, no matter what the result of the Sunday election - although we are very confident about victory - the people of the 60 settlements in Tapolca, Sümegi, Lips and the area, the people of the 60 settlements in the constituency can count on the government of Hungary, they can count on the Fidesz-KDNP alliance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-07-22	Dear Parliament, Members who have applied for the speech following the agenda today: László Varju, independent; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; László Teleki, MSZP; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP and our fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:53 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. I would also like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the President of the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr István Ikotity K/4231. Mr Balog, Minister of Human Resources, was rejected because the motion did not fall within the remit of the addressee, Minister Zoltán Balog. Dear Parliament, First, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: how could public money of the magnitude of ten billion be made available to the Quaestor? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2015-04-07-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, In 2013, the property of the Hungarian National Trading House, established under the supervision of the Ministry of National Economy, led by György Matolcsy, was managed by the Quaestor Group on the basis of the contract. Despite the fact that public money is clearly involved, it is consistently hidden, but according to budgetary data, they could give Csaba Tarsoly at least HUF 3 or up to HUF 6 billion. However, this is not the total amount, the government bond of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of about HUF 4 billion - of which only the monetary consideration could be saved, the interest was no longer affected. Thus, the Hungarian State suffered tangible damage, and at that time I did not mention the stock with a nominal value of HUF 72 billion, which was also very generously entrusted to Quaestor's management. Mr. Secretary. Yet, what considerations led you to entrust people's money to offshore private companies? What motivation played a role when, instead of the Hungarian Treasury, other tens of billions were entrusted to profited entrepreneurs? What you have gained from this, because the fact that Hungary has only lost the case is obvious to everyone. In view of the fact that, under the Fundamental Law, our country enforces the principle of transparent budgetary management, I would like to ask that the Parliament, in the light of their responsibilities, account be taken of decisions concerning public money. In the framework of this, I ask: What management decision and how much public wealth did Quaestor have? What ministerial decision did the State Department's securities come to Quaestor, despite the fact that according to the law, only the Treasury could have handled it? Who is responsible for losing the HUF 300 million interest on securities to the Ministry, thus damaging Hungary? I look forward to your reply.
u2015-04-07-24	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-04-07-25	Mr President, Thank you very much for my fellow Member's question. Apparently, today the Socialist Party intends to hold a Quaestor Csaba Day in Parliament, to which we will endeavour to respond with my State Secretary colleagues for the next two hours. In the beginning, I am surprised that today Buda-Cash is not mentioned, certainly not because the Socialist Party had excellent connections there, but probably because we hope that the Buda-Cash victims will receive 97-98 percent of the money placed in the banks that went bankrupt in the Buda-Cash case. We also hope that out of the 32,000 investors involved in Quaestor Group's transactions, the 22,000 small investors, my fellow Members, as a result of the decision of BEVA, will also receive the amount with which they have risked or suffered damage. And we have also provided a detailed information on public exposure, which, compared to the budget's total, I believe, is not significant, my fellow Member. There is only one significant item to risk at Quaestor, and that is the 17 billion-dollar loan of the Hungarian Development Bank. I will look forward to it with great interest when, on the Committee of Inquiry of the Economic Commission, you ask your friend, János Erős, why you gave Csaba Tarsoly HUF 17 billion. [[Dr. László Varga: You also gave your consent! Szijjárto was even happy about it!]] So your question would be better addressed to János Erős, since János Erős risked most of the state money when, to date, he gave HUF 18 billion to an investment called ETO Park in 2005 and 2008 in unclear circumstances. [[Dr. István Varga: Péter Szijjártó was involved!]] In which the Hungarian state can now enrich itself with a stadium, a hotel, even a parking lot. Please clarify, my fellow Member, in what decision-making mechanism under your government you have given money to Csaba Tarsoly, why you have risked taxpayers' money, and how you are going to get it back. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Gábor István Bellozó: Will you answer me, Minister? Nándor Gúr: You're just not doing your job!]]
u2015-04-07-26	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Due to the change in EU legislation and the poor information of the government, many farmers are forced to plow out their valuable seed? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Even some of the agricultural subsidies in the previous cycle belong to the MVH towards farmers, and the latest outrage is already here. I would like to bring the development here to the wider public about the problems with support for the new EU cycle. As we know, the new cycle of the common agricultural policy will start in 2015, and this will also include a new form of greening, which would not be a problem overall, but, as a result, a number of farmers' problems have come to us with the need to plow out their autumn sowing, as the government's fault has not really brought this information to them that the conditions have changed and that the new rules require farmers to do more for the same amount. For the area aid that has been applied so far, the basic CAP support will also be greened compared to so far, and while the total amount will not change, this amount is around 226 euros, but this change in the conditionality is a problem for many people. It is true that the new regulation should be applied for the first time this year, but this is already a problem for autumn crops, and, as I mentioned, I already consider this to be the responsibility of the government, and it can already be seen that a significant part of farmers will fall from this support. [[12.00]] I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why the government and, above all, the professional wallet and the Chamber of Agriculture, the MVH, or anyone else who would have had the task of not informing those concerned on time. I cannot accept, in answer, that farmers should have gone to various high-priced forums. I would also like to ask you how you intend to change the communication channels, the structure in the future; how you intend to make sure that the producers concerned do not suffer such damage unnecessarily. I think it is quite unacceptable in the middle of Europe, Mr Secretary of State, that you have created a situation in which so many farmers will be damaged by your poor communication. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-28	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-04-07-29	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, No, no, no, no! I must say to you that your question already contains misleading information that I must reject most definitely. His reputation on this issue is also unfounded and harmful. Farmers who, for any reason, have not taken into account the requirements for crop diversification applicable from 2015 on autumn crops may, without further delay, comply with it by applying a second seed to part of their territory after the harvest of their autumn plant. It is recalled that since 2012, all communications, news and other information in the portfolio have included, in addition to the expected amount of aid, that greening amounts to 30% of area payments from 2015. The requirement of greening has also been known for many years by the professional public, with a slight exaggeration from the faucet, and even since December 2013 the EU basic regulations that can be implemented directly without domestic legislation have been part of the Hungarian legal order. Our forums, events, press releases have been telling us for years about the importance of greening and what needs to be done. The manual distributed on paper and electronically has been sent to all relevant chamber members by post and can be downloaded electronically from a number of locations. The Ministry's Secretary of State for Agricultural Economy deals with the rules of direct support applicable between 2015 and 20 on its own website, with detailed, understandable and graphic presentation, including a number of forms of crop diversification. It is therefore important that no farmer has to plow a single hectare. One or two duplicates rejected in part of the area, where they are rejected immediately after the harvest in the first half of July 2015, will be eligible as second and third crops for crop diversification; moreover, if this second seed meets the requirements of the ecological second seed, another condition of greening under one smoke, the designation of the ecological target area may also be passed on by the farmer. Thank you.
u2015-04-07-30	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When and how does the government intend to fulfil its obligations regarding gender equality? It's an address. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-04-07-31	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The 59th session of the UN Committee on Women's Situation in New York, which was of particular importance, has recently been completed as it has dealt with the change in the situation of women in the last 20 years as a result of the various measures. Katalin Novák, State Secretary, representing the government, took part in this session, who, among other things, reported on the Hungarian situation and said that gender equality cannot be opposed to family policy, these two must be viewed in parallel, and that is what the Hungarian Government is doing. Unfortunately, we find that this is the opposite of what is happening in Hungary: the government exactly contrasts family policy with the issue of gender equality. In addition, our experience is that the government is completely disenfranchised even from the use of words and avoids the issue of gender equality for women. Unfortunately, in recent years, the state institution dealing with women's rights has been broken down; the Council of Social Equality of Women and Men, consisting of tripartite, state and civil society representatives and experts, has not been convened once. The Equal Treatment Authority has been weakened. Unfortunately, our commitments in international conventions and agreements are not fulfilled. At the women's fourth world conference, we withdrew from the commitments of the Beijing Declaration 20 years ago. To mention just one example: our country is the only country in Europe where the parliamentary share of women has decreased. For all these reasons, my question is when and how the government intends to fulfil its commitments in the area of gender equality; when will they finally give the green light to the ad hoc committee on gender equality proposed by LMP. Thank you. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]]
u2015-04-07-32	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-04-07-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I would not only like to talk to you about committees, but also about actions, measures that this government has taken that it has taken. Some of these have been waiting for 20-25 years for the Hungarian government, such as the amendment of the Criminal Code, which has now been included in the Criminal Code as a matter of fact, which in most cases means more protection for women in vulnerable situations. Before that, other governments could have done so for 20-25 years; Fidesz-KDNP adopted a criminal code in which this was included. The Social Equality of Women and Men Council, mentioned by you, goes back to 1999, the time of the first Orbán government, when this conciliation forum started; it was called the Women's Council then, and it grew out of it this longer-named body. So the Orbán government is also responsible for the establishment of this. As regards other fundamental rights issues, fundamental rights issues, in February 2012, the Government's human rights working group stood up, precisely in the spirit of the dialogue and consultation that Mrs. This has a thematic working group on women's rights, which also meets several times, and the issues that the representative has raised have been kept on the agenda since 2012; the most important issues concerning women's rights, international, UN or European Council documents on discrimination against women, and this is where the facts of the Btk. amendment have been discussed, among other things. However, one of the greatest increases in the employment rate of women in the European Union is in Hungary, and this is not by accident, but because of the measures that, for example, give women the benefits expressed in the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs, whether they return from child rearing or if they are before retirement; and if they are already retired, I could also mention 40, which was an exemplary measure for women in Europe. And I could tell you for a long time. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-34	Dear Parliament, István Tiba, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the vicinity of Hortobágy National Park, about 10 kilometers from the residential area of Balmazújváros-Lászlóháza, there are about 2 thousand tons of chemicals in barrels and containers. Storage does not comply with environmental standards. Some of the barrels have been disintegrated, from which the chemical, primarily trichloroethylene derivatives, pesticides, cyanide, cadmium salt and galvanic sludge may enter the ground. There is a danger that the poison will leak into the soil and from there into the groundwater. These substances are carcinogenic. At the same time there are several livestock farms, agricultural land and the Szeg-famoushát inland drainage canals in addition to the populated areas. The problem has been reported twice and I have asked for help in solving it. Over the last two years, the Environmental and Natural Protection Inspectorate of Tiszanyújváros and the municipality of Balmazújváros have taken steps to settle the situation by ensuring permanent guarding and maintenance work, as the operating company that was wound up has failed to comply with its duties of guarding and maintenance, as well as metal thieves have repeatedly damaged and knocked over storage barrels. The Trans-Tiszántúl Environmental and Nature Control and Greenpeace have already started carrying out investigations to determine the source and origin of pollutants, and the government announced that it would provide HUF 400 million to eliminate the hazardous waste storage. On behalf of the people in the area, I thank you with respect. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you: when will the government take out the hazardous waste storage facility in Balmazújváros? How does the government carry out liquidation and remediation? Is it possible to establish the responsibility of the former operating company? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[12.10]]
u2015-04-07-36	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-04-07-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, I would like to share the good news with you, as the government, with its decision of 18 March, provided some HUF 400 million for the elimination of the hazardous waste storage facility, allowing the disposal of hazardous waste to take place this year. With the support of the government, the environmental damage left behind can be eliminated and a threat to the environment can be prevented. I would also like to thank you for the work that you have done to draw the government's attention to this serious environmental threat and all the activities that you have managed to achieve that decision by the government. The use of resources should be subject to open public procurement under the EU procedure, with an expected duration of 3-4 months. At the first stage, the successful contractor prepares all barrels for transport in accordance with the regulations, repacks as necessary and then transports hazardous waste for disposal. The main objective is to maintain the highest level of safety for those living there. At the second stage, an environmental health check is carried out in the area of the already purified storage and in its immediate surroundings. In doing so, it will be examined whether the various types of waste stored here cause soil and groundwater contamination. The competent Trans-Tiszántúli Environmental and Territorial Inspectorate has continuously sought to eliminate the colony in its entirety over the last decade. To this end, the operating company was obliged by a decision to exploit or dispose of hazardous waste. He also imposed a fine for failing to do so. Therefore, the supervisory authority has taken the necessary administrative steps, and the judicial phase of the case is currently pending following a criminal complaint. However, I would like to remind you that, under the environmental law, the managers of companies are liable without limitation and jointly and severally for the recovery and compensation obligations imposed on the company when the companies cease to exist. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-38	Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, now wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: "Are the ministers involved in a commission? It's an address. You have the floor, Your Honour.
u2015-04-07-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In recent weeks, the biggest domestic bank and broker scandal of all time has started, with hundreds of thousands of depositors, individuals, NGOs, local governments and small businesses suffering losses of hundreds of billions of HUF. In addition to material damage, the scandal also undermines public confidence in the financial sector and its monitoring, as well as in the functioning of the government. Today, not only press conferences, but also ministerial and State Secretary's statements make it clear that some ministries and their back-up companies held a significant amount of cash and securities in the Quaestor Group instead of the Hungarian Treasury. Not only are we talking about a transaction, but we're starting to have a strategy at government level. The Prime Minister couldn't tell himself a week ago exactly how much public wealth Csaba Tarsoly's company could handle. This does not exactly reflect responsible farming, professionally sound decisions. Dear Minister, In this case, it is right to ask people what consideration was given to the Quaestor Group for public money. What benefit has anyone benefited from regular trades? Who got a broker's commission for the stock exchange of public money? How could the government trust more and more billions to Csaba Tarsoly's group of companies, which ultimately resulted in more than HUF 300 million in damage to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, according to the news. The exact amount of money that was used to damage the Hungarian state by their decisions is not yet known, because after a month they were unable to report the property concerned. Minister, who is responsible for this? Who benefited from this? I look forward to your answers to these questions and not to your misconception about the ETO. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-40	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-04-07-41	Thank you very much. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Answer only the question!]] And the instructions on what to talk about and what not to talk about. This tells us a lot about the democratic stance of the socialists. I wanted to... [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mr President, if you'll allow me, I'll try to answer. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's your job!]] If it helps to create the possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that HUF 300 billion is public money for brokerage companies in order to conduct financial operations, in which Quaestor received HUF 4.8 billion between 2002 and 2010. Congressman, please ask the ministers who made these decisions as to why they had to entrust 300 billion public funds to brokers between 2002 and 2010 to carry out public financial operations and why Quaestor had to give state money to Quaestor between 2002 and 2010 and entrust it to state financial instruments. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including: They never got one!]] The state documents prove this in white black, as well as the risk you left money to brokers. And then we didn't talk about the 17 billion forints he gave to Quaestor and under what circumstances. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: You don't answer questions!]] I'd like to tell you that you took a risk. Unlike you, however, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has fully recovered the sovereign debt deposited at Quaestor - a small difference between cash and government debt. He will not receive interest because he has unilaterally terminated this contract, so he cannot hold a right to interest in our opinion. So the state wasn't hurt, except for the 17 billion forints you lent me. As far as customers are concerned, we can say that the government's legal position is that BEVA has to compensate all customers and that they have suffered damage up to HUF 6 million - we are talking about 22,000 - the small investors can receive their money. And about the fate of large investors to the injured, to the government, to the National Bank as oversight [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: But there is no one to investigate the case.]] And all those involved, of course, Quaestor, must decide together and bear responsibility. Speak to strong John with confidence, perhaps you've met him. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ágnes Kunhalmi: But the government is intertwined with the National Bank. János Lázár: Do you think of John the Strong?]]
u2015-04-07-42	István Szávay... [[Noise.]] [[Noise.]] I'd like you to talk to my fellow Members in the hallway, okay? ! (Noise) István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why do you require those travelling from Serbia to Hungary, including those crossing the border in southern Hungary, to pay a fee that is meaningless and unfairly? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In 2015, the government radically modified the toll system. On the one hand, stickers for a county were introduced and on the other hand, besides motorways, many other roads were paid for. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mr President, I'm asking you to calm down the socialists here. You can't talk like that. Thank you very much. [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP: Sit on the other side! Have you paid the VAT back yet? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So, in the case of newly paid trips, it's obvious that it's nothing but a simple collection of cash, the government wanted to increase their revenues, and now it's their turn to drive. Such a paying section, for example, became a few hundred metres to Ferihegy Airport, so it was not possible to get to the airport free of charge, or two stickers had to be bought for crossing the bridges of M8, M9. The government perceived the rightful indignation and many errors, including these two, by the way, corrected these errors, and proudly highlighted in their communication that the new system was excellent, there were one or two errors in it, but it was eliminated. However, this is simply not true, there remain quite amazing parts and provisions in this toll regulation, which have not otherwise been resolved. For example, and now I can only draw attention to the fact that the border crossing of Röszke has essentially become paid, because the crossings from Serbia immediately arrive at a paying part and are 450 metres away from the road, the first exit from the border crossing. For the sake of this 450 meters, you must buy a five thousand forints county sticker for everyone who crosses Hungary from Serbia, including southern Hungarians. This amazing tribute has still not been wiped out, Mr. Secretary of State. I hope I do not have to stress that for our national brothers living there, those in contact with the motherland, their relatives here, and those visiting their friends, this is a pointless and unnecessary burden. I would like to ask why this cross-border paid section has remained, and why this makes it difficult for Hungarians to communicate. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask you to abolish this provision. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-44	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2015-04-07-45	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, I would like to start by saying that the government's objective was clearly to allow more people to use our fast-track network, and it was also a clear goal for everyone to do so on an equal footing, using our safe and fast-moving paths on a level playing field. [[12.20]] For those who come from Serbia to Hungary via Röszkö, it is also important to take into account that they can use not only the 400 m or 450 m section, but also the entire county's possibilities, and in the county, we know very well that they can use a longer fast-track section for 5 thousand HUF per year. So, as I said, all passers-by people in Hungary, whether they are Hungarian people living in Hungary or Hungarian people living beyond the borders of Hungary, must use them on equal terms. I do not think that the Hungarian people in the South region or anywhere else would ask and state that they need positive discrimination, and I would ask them not to pay for what others in Hungary pay for. I find it impossible, and if you also count and look at what the annual county usage sticker fee of HUF 5 thousand means, and how much more favourable the use of the fast-tracking sector is with the introduction of the system, you do not interpret it that way. So, once again, I do not think that you intended to make political profit in this regard, when you raise this 450 meters as a question of Hungarians or as a national question. This is about the fact that the Hungarian people in the South Country did not ask to be treated differently in Hungary than in Hungary. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. István Szávay: This is what they asked for!]] So I didn't realize until now that the congressman had such an attitude, but I see his attitude has changed now. I'm telling you again, it's not like that. In Hungary, the use of the Hungarian road network for everyone, be a Hungarian person, live wherever it is, is equal, equal and proportionate. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-46	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When will the staff of teachers receive a real wage increase after 2008 again? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-47	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The serious failure of the Fidesz-KDNP government to raise wages and start a career model for teachers, as well as the directly assisting staff of teachers, will not receive a penny increase. Their future has not changed since 2008, many of them live below the minimum living standards and cannot support their families. In words, although the government considers the work of the nanny, teachers' assistants, school secretaries, librarians, administrators and their associates to be extremely important, it has not improved their situation so far. The LMP has asked us many times about the wage increase, we have never received a specific answer, only the propaganda slogans are repeated. At last, the Ministry of Public Education sensed something from serious wage tension in kindergartens and schools. Recently, they talked about the fact that from September this year they may receive some kind of one-off out-of-wage allowance for school employees. Is this really the best you can do after seven years of school staff getting a few thousand forints worth of Elizabeth's voucher? Not everyone seems to be there either, because the technical staff employed by the municipalities would also be left out of this, as well as the kindergarten staff, as they are, would also be absent. The aim of the LMP is to combat workers' poverty, so we strongly stand in favour of improving the situation of youth protection officers, leisure organisers, school secretaries, school psychologists, labists and many of their colleagues. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is when you will receive a real, substantial wage increase for staff with secondary education and education. Can you really afford a one-time allowance of a few thousand forints extra wage? Have the kindergarten staff really been left out of this planned one-off allowance? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-04-07-48	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-04-07-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are talking about a number of groups here, and the Member also referred to a number of people. At the very end, he mentioned those who did not have a higher education degree and thus worked in the system of public education. Compared to these, there is a person who works in the system of public education, has a teaching degree, but is not in a teaching profession, and on the third, there is a person who works in public education, has a teaching degree, and is also a teacher. The latter is the largest number, the largest block. Here we know the effects of the teacher-promotion system, as in 2013 they received a HUF 30 billion bonus, in 2014 it was HUF 120 billion in total, and this year the budget was increased by HUF 38 billion for teachers' wages, precisely in order to provide a wage increase for those working in general education in this sector, and this could mean a real, noticeable increase of 30-40 percent for those working as teachers in schools. If someone transferred to educator II, gave up their portfolio, or obtained a master's degree, this could increase the family's income by another ten thousand forints. In addition, as you know, according to the Public Education Act, as of 1 September this year, the scope of the pedagogical career and the associated salary increase will be extended to those who have a pedagogical education, but do not employ them as educators in schools. In comparison, there is a third group, to which, among other things, the Member referred, who work in schools, but do not have a higher education degree, and certainly do not have a teaching degree. In their case, as you have pointed out, there are ongoing negotiations between representative trade unions and between the government, the EMMI, which last took place on 20 March. This is where the two parties are always approaching the data. Who does it apply to? For a total of 24 547 people, it is the series of negotiations that the Member referred to. There was talk of a one-off or two-part allowance, which was discussed by the representatives of the two parties. Obviously, there will be further discussions here. However, it is clear that the government would also like to provide benefits to these people this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-50	Dear Parliament, Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question:. A growing country, modern cities! At which points will the program "Modern Cities" help the development of Sopron? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-51	Dear House, Dear Minister, Now that EU proposals for 2014-2020 are in place, it is necessary to identify the priorities on the basis of which the resources will be put in the right place. As is known, 60% of resources should be translated into job creation, 40% to other developments. It is good news that the government is among the most important tasks of developing rural county-righted cities. The development of rural cities is the key to the development and economic growth of the countryside, so I personally welcome it, as my fellow Member Mátyás Firtl had done earlier, the programme "Modern Cities" in which the government first concluded a cooperation agreement with Sopron. At the conclusion of the agreement, the Prime Minister announced that three projects were planned to be implemented in this cycle: the construction of the M85 two-track road, the renovation of the Baroque downtown and the development of the World Heritage Site of the Lake Fertő. The development of the M85 highway may exceed HUF 100 billion. It is important that the road is completed by 2018, as planned, because the aim is to connect all cities with county rights to the motorway system and thus to the border. The construction of the M85 road is our hope that it will be the engine of tourism and economic development. It is particularly important to build the four-track section between Nagycenk and Sopron, which is the gate of the entire Western Transdanubia in the same section as the 84. Today there is still a considerable difference in infrastructure between the Austrian and Hungarian sides to our detriment. The aim would therefore be to ensure that when we move from Austria to Hungary, there is no reduction in standards. That is why I am asking the Minister, at which points, for example, the Modern Cities programme will help the development of the city of Sopron. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-04-07-52	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-04-07-53	Ladies and gentlemen, It is well known to all of us that a large part of the Hungarian population lives in the town of 23 counties, and most of the GDP is produced in these cities and communities, plus in the capital. That is why the government considers it extremely important that all 23 county-righted cities be united in the coming weeks and months. The Prime Minister is beyond an agreement in Sopron that the government will negotiate tomorrow, and on Friday, a trial will take place with Eger County City. This agreement with Sopron has two main points. One: we would like to agree with every county-righted city on how and how the HUF 1200 billion territorial operational programme will be used in the next seven years. There are reassuring proposals for cities with county rights, and there are points where there are plenty of improvements and corrections. We do not hide the fact that the government wants more innovative, more competitive and meaningful programmes for the development of the region on a county-righted urban level than in the last seven years' development cycle, which will also be decided in the counties and in the county-righted cities. In particular, we have agreed on three things, which I am here to confirm, and, of course, that the government has an important duty tomorrow to approve the transport accelerator package, which will lead to thousands of billions of transport investments in Hungary in the next four years. To change the legislative environment, we will also ask my fellow Members for help in making the administration faster and more efficient. [[12.30]] The most important thing, a hundred-year debt to the most loyal city, is the connection of the city to the national road network. This means building the M85 highway between the border and the city, and between the town of Sopron County and the M1. Connecting this is essential in the next period, with a cost of at least HUF 100 billion. Just as there will be a serious cost for the special program that we will be able to spend together on the only affected Baroque downtown centre in the next period, not with European Union money, but with Hungarian taxpayers' money, and then we have not yet talked about the government's commitment to develop the Fertő region as well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-54	Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question:. What else is the Prime Minister's instinct for life? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Orbán said that he listened to his instincts when he decided to withdraw public funds to Quaestor. Of course, he didn't talk about his intuition about why the money had to be put there. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right! How did it get there?]] Dear Minister, We have a saying that says, "You can feel it like a cat in the rain." But the cat is an instinct, and we expect the politician to be thoughtful and considerate. For now, however, we can only discover this caution and discretion in trace amounts that you are trying to produce your own story on the Quaestor story, trying to free yourselves from this scandal. They don't know. At the same time, I assume that the Prime Minister did not listen to his intuition when he arrived at a letter from Csaba Tarsoly on the 10th by e-mail, and asked for the appointment of a negotiating partner to the man who robbed his own clients; a negotiating partner to the man you are trying to portray as a great friend of the social community, but you cannot forget Csaba Tarsoly, who is smiling with Szijjártó. I ask you, Minister, what was to be discussed with Csaba Tarsoly. Did anyone negotiate? The Prime Minister, Minister or anyone else? And if so, what about? What was the case that made you sit down with the man who hurt a lot of people? Do we even know what the history of these government versions now produced in several versions is, what is the reality in this stinking Quaestor case? Minister, when I ask you to answer the question, I do not want to give you a lesson from our approach to democracy, I simply insist on Parliament's rules. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-07-56	Once again, I give the floor to Minister John Lázár.
u2015-04-07-57	Thank you very much for the words and questions of my fellow Member, István Tukacs. I especially appreciate and appreciate the last sentence, especially from him, who has great experience in government and government, so he knows how difficult it is. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you the following answer. Indeed, on 25 February, according to the government's reminder, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave clear instructions to the members of the government to take every step on the basis of the events of the Buda-Cash scandal that broke out a few days before, so that municipal, community or government money would not be in any danger. This was justified by the case of the Honvéd Health Fund and the municipal authorities, which was related to Buda-Cash. I would also like to point out that there has been immediate action on two wallets. This is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we managed to save 3.8 billion forints of government bonds. The Ministry of Agriculture gave this Hungária Securities Ltd. HUF 410 million with one of its backup companies, this was the Institute for Reserve Management, where I do not yet see how this HUF 410 million will be returned to the state. [[Nándor Gúr: What about the money of the hardworking little people?]] Why the Institute of Reserve Management had confidence in Hungária Érték Zrt. I don't know about that, but between 2002-2010 he entrusted Hungária Érték Zrt. with 2.8 billion, so they probably had old and bad practice in the Ministry of Agriculture. I would also like to inform you that the government has done everything in its power to protect the victims. A good example of this is Buda-Cash, where 97 percent of the compensation, 97 percent of the victims received the compensation, and here too, in the case of Quaestor, we will do everything we can to ensure that this pyramid game, in which 210 billion were collected - possibly 70-100 billion were paid back on interest - has, of course, a personal responsibility for everyone, as little as possible. We hope that BEVA will compensate 22,000 people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-58	Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of State without a wallet for national politics, when can the apostle Székely return home? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In May this year, it will be three years since the rebuilt of József Nyirő's ashes in Székelyudvarhely, under unworthy and scandalous circumstances, most likely under political pressure. Thus, only within the framework of an ecumenical devotion was the possibility of the figurative farewell of the apostle Székely, and the whereabouts of his ashes are still unknown. The case of the re-municipation remains silent to this day, although, according to the May 2014 announcement of the Székelyudvarhelyi magistrate, the mayor's office does not need to issue a burial permit for the burial of the ashes, which was alleged to be a faulty exhibition of a permit which was an obstacle to the funeral at that time. Dear Secretary of State, Burying the ashes of a deceased is not a question of sympathy or ideology, but a question of mercy, based on human dignity. Every deceased, including József Nyirő, has the right to eternal rest in his own homeland. Anyone who takes this right, whether it is a country or an individual, and denies it, I believe that it is not only from culture and the rule of law, but also from Europeanism and above all from humanity. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian state is responsible for all Hungarians, whether they are alive or dead. Therefore, the proper placement of József Nyirő's ashes in his homeland is a national matter. His work is our cultural heritage and our national treasure. This is confirmed and expressed by the fact that it was correctly included in the National Basics Plan among the selected authors. In the spirit of commitment to this national cause and in the light of what has been said, I ask the Secretary of State: where are the ashes of József Nyirő currently kept? Is there an intention on the part of the government to bury the ashes of József Nyirő, especially in the knowledge that both the legal possibility and the Székelyudvarhely magistrates have the intention and support for this? If so, when will the apostle Szekler finally return home? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-60	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-04-07-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you said, József Nyirő's farewell was done earlier, but not to accommodate the ashes. I can't tell you where his remains are right now. As you know, the Székelyudvarhely Association initiated the funeral. Obviously, everyone's right of grace, part of his human dignity, is to have his remains buried and buried in a fair manner. At the same time, a long legal procedure began here in Szeklerland, Transylvania with the Romanian authorities, whose rounds ended at various courts and elsewhere, after the Harghita County Tribunal, in 2014 at the Table Court in Muresárhely, where the burial permit was annulled in a final judgment. We believe that, on the basis of human dignity, there is, of course, a grace ceremony on earth, so it would be the best thing for everyone here if the matter were to rest and the funeral took place. But like I said to you, here the association initiated this, so you can turn to them on further questions, they can give you more information. The government has no more information in this regard than it has in the public eye. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-62	István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Where is the hospital reorganization? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government's health restructuring has brought many good things to both the patients and the workers in the sector. The government has promised to eliminate duplication and efficient management, whereas uncertainty is constantly increasing and the problems are getting worse. It is not possible to know how the reorganisations of hospital departments stand, what agreements have been reached, and how they will ensure that the combined tasks are carried out. In the meantime, debts could not be settled, and due to overdue debts, suppliers no longer talk to hospitals. According to all calculations and estimates, the HUF 60 billion planned to solve the problem is not enough, as the real debt is close to HUF 90 billion. Under these circumstances, it arises when hospitals can order medicines and medical supplies again. The Ministry doesn't hope that the suppliers will let go of the debts for approximately HUF 30 billion, does it? [[12.40]] We can only hope that government idleness will not result in layoffs or that increased tasks due to restructuring will not have to be performed by the same number of workers in the future, thus placing permanently overloaded medical staff on the line of unfulfilled tasks. Nor is it known whether the new business budget can accommodate the care of patients, or whether more and more are being left unoccupied, because this cannot be achieved with the current funding, with the current one-case fees. Until these rates change, they force hospitals to make it impossible. So it's not the zero payout, it's the forced savings in the current situation that's gonna come back. My question is, when will the health professionals raise their wages? Do you really want to wait until the hospitals are just showing off doctors and professionals? Where's the hospital restructuring going? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2015-04-07-64	I give the floor again to Secretary of State Bence Retvári.
u2015-04-07-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Almost all the issues that are important in health care are a half-sentence of the Member concerned. I'll start at the end. However, it is fortunate to say that although doctors and nurses were moving away from Hungary at a high pace, two or three years ago the rate for doctors dropped, and they migrated from Hungary to a lesser extent, and in the case of nurses the trend changed last year, and the number of nurses leaving Hungary also decreased. We can see this from the number of permits and know how many there are. In the last year, the government has tried to manage the situation with a HUF 10 billion budget at the end of the summer, with less support than the total debt, to address the situation of hospitals in the most problematic situation, but, indeed, as you said, a larger amount will be needed here, and the budget that you have not supported includes a budget of HUF 60 billion for the debt settlement of public finances institutions. This is the framework from which hospitals can benefit from the following, obviously if they are able to undertake at the same time not to re-produce these debts. If hospitals are able to present what the change they put into their own operation is, then they can expect this multi-billion-forint debt management support for a good reason. In addition, of course, the government has provided 1.5, 1 and 6 billion forints to reduce waiting lists in the last 14 months. This can obviously be partly used to cover suppliers' debts. Health coordination forums have also been established at county level, and we are also trying to organise the functioning of health care from an economic point of view, so that, at county level, a body can be set up, under the guidance of the county administration, in addition to the management of the OEP leaders, the heads of the ÁEEK, the representatives of the medical training universities operating there, the Chief Medical Office, the OBDK representatives, and the county administration, which can also contribute economically to the situation of health institutions operating there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-66	Now László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Help me, for so far we have not learned much from the answers of John Lazarus. I have addressed my question to the foreign affairs wallet, obviously in connection with the Quaestor case, because there is not a day that goes by that the government will not be in conflict again in this particular case. Although you are doing everything you can to make Csaba Tarsoly appear almost never known, there are reports every hour that he is connected to Fidesz by a thousand and a single thread. But what is more important for Hungary is the considerations on which you decide on the fate of public funds. There are a lot more vague details about this. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the government was constantly monitoring the financial events, so the Ministry's leadership decided to withdraw the public money from Quaestor. The Prime Minister's statement that he personally instructed us to do so at a government meeting was written down the next day. This was followed by a joint press conference between János Lázár and András Giro-Szász, on which a question arose as to when this government meeting was at all, and this was answered as incredibly concretely as it was sometime in the first days of March. Yet, according to the news, no government meetings were held during this period. The story took a new turn, according to András Giró-Szász, not even the Prime Minister's experience or instinct for life, but he made his decision on the basis of a carefully secret Mihály Varga report, which was already made on 25 February. Dear Secretary of State, Trying to make people understand a story, trying to sell them a story that changes from day to day, and the members of the government are repairing each other, that in itself is thoughtful and very sad. But the question arises: was such a report really made? What did it contain, and who knew about it? The question arises also with regard to your ministry: is this the basis for the decision to withdraw public money from Quaestor? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-07-68	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2015-04-07-69	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the opportunity to clarify once again what happened at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in connection with the Quaestor scandal. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Try it once!]] After a number of times, Member and fellow Members have made it clear that the MSZP has not yet been able to understand this not-so-complicated process. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: People don't understand, not us! Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Be modest!]] I'm going to try again to clarify exactly what happened in chronological order. Honourable Congressman, The MSZP's proven method is that if you can't find a catch on a case, you can use manipulation, deception of people, and ambiguity of a particular case. I don't think that's a good thing, either, because your communication here has gone far beyond the ambiguity: they're coming up with a lot of circumstantial lies, such as the fact that the Hungarian state lost HUF 300 million in public money in connection with the Quaestor case. I would like to make it clear, honourable Member, that this amount is false, that is not the case, and the loss of interest suffered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to a maximum of a fraction of that. So please don't throw hundreds of millions and billions at me without giving concrete support to what they have to say. As regards chronology, honourable Member, at the government meeting on 25 February, indeed, after the Minister of National Economy informed the government about the acute situation in the financial markets, the Prime Minister decided to review the state's assets at all brokerage firms and to take the necessary steps to ensure that this state property is not damaged. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade acted on the basis of money market developments and this Prime Minister's instruction when it withdrew all funds deposited at Quaestor without losing capital, honourable Member. And let me also draw attention to the fact that it was said earlier that the Hungarian Treasury should have stored this property: the Hungarian Treasury does not hold a securities account on which, for example, we could have placed 72 billion of the outstanding shares of Eximbank. I'm asking the MSZP to stop overshadowing and manipulation on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó: Was there a report or was there no report?]]
u2015-04-07-70	Now Dóra Dúró, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why don't you deal with the archives and the people working there? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-07-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the problems of an area that often serves Hungarian culture in an invisible way. I have personally had the pleasure of getting experience of the state of Hungarian archives in recent months, when I have also been negotiating with leaders and employees in the framework of institutional visits. The situation of Hungarian archives is desperate, and the financial value of its staff is disastrous. Many Hungarian archives operate within walls that are unsuitable for storing larger quantities of paper. Some institutions are so outdated from a fire protection point of view that a fire could mean the destruction of the entire stock, not to mention that in many cases the ventilation, heating and humidity control of the building has not been solved. With the documents in the institutions, well-prepared archivists perform their daily duties, most of them with exemplary vocation and devotional humility. About 700 archivists with a higher education degree work in the country, most of them around 100-120 thousand forints, so for a very modest salary. Their financial appreciation is far from what could be assumed on the basis of their qualifications and their highly skilled work, although 700 people's wage arrangements in the central budget would not be a burden. On the basis of what has been said, I ask Mr State Secretary: does the government plan to carry out a comprehensive survey of the state of the Hungarian archives? Do they provide suitable accommodation for the Hungarian archives? Does the government plan a satisfactory settlement for the payment of the archivists? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-72	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[12.50]]
u2015-04-07-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to split the answer into three parts, the first part with the health check, the file there, the second part with the state of buildings, the state of storage, and the third part with the wages. We have a clear and precise picture of what stock there is in the archives, a knowledge defined by law, as the 2012 NKÖM Regulation on professional requirements related to the activities of public archives and public archives 21. According to §2 of the Act, the status of these warehouses must be assessed every five years, so we have real and recent data every five years, and in any case we can schedule developments and large investments on the basis of these. After the transformation of earlier times, one of the most important developments, which had already taken place with new knowledge, was the modernly renovated and used building of the Fejér County Archive, but from 2014 we could mention the Cseh Tamás Archive in Budapest, the significant expansion of the storage capacity of the Hajdú-Bihar County Archives, the construction of the Somogy County Archives, the first stage of which was completed last year, or the completion of the construction of the Nógrád County Archives. So the process by which the maintenance licenses of these archives were transferred from the counties to central control has resulted in the fact that I have now been able to tell you about a number of counties where the renovation of the buildings was carried out. In addition, the electronic archival system introduced in the Hungarian National Archives and the Budapest Archives may be extended to the county archives. In short, the issue of wage planning: in recent weeks, the Cultural Sectoral Stakeholders Council met, but there were discussions with interest organisations and local authorities, which included a modern system of promotion in the cultural sphere. This may be part of the settlement of the wages of the archivists after the reconciliation of the career model, in addition to its implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-74	István Ikotity and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-04-07-75	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Recently, one newspaper reported that domestic labour market conditions are already in many respects similar to those of some Far Eastern countries. Garage sewing facilities in Hungary have 10-15 seams working on black for pennies. The seamstress are forced to do extra work for 4-6 hours beyond their legal 8-hour hours because they cannot make a living on their income. According to Mr Orbán, work-based societies in the European Union are needed to ensure that the Member States of the Community are competitive with China and the United States. The Prime Minister believes that we can be competitive with a reduced wage and vulnerable workforce and that we must compete with wages and working conditions in the Far East countries. The last few years have been all about reducing the level of education, breaking workers' rights, and cutting them down instead of catching up on wages. As is known, there is a huge proportion of working poor now, nearly half of the tax workers earn below the minimum living, i.e. less than HUF 87 thousand. According to Eurostat data, the Hungarian labour force is one of the cheapest in the European Union, and this value is falling against the EU average. According to the LMP, increasing the skills of the workforce and higher wages are the key to improving the performance of the economy, as opposed to devaluing the workforce. Everyone who works at least find the minimum living, so there wouldn't be any need for garage sutures. My question is: when does the government create the conditions for working income not to be lower than the minimum living wage, i.e. 87 thousand forints? Thank you.
u2015-04-07-76	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-04-07-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As regards the specific issue indicated in the ominous newspaper article, that is to say, the discovery of black employment and the management of this problem are the responsibility and responsibility of the authorities. I would not like to give you more details about this. What is important, however, we agree. Member Schiffer has also indicated in his speech before the agenda today that the most effective way to combat poverty is to give people, not aid, but work, of course, primarily in the sphere of competition. If we look at what has happened over the past four years with regard to the minimum wage or wages, I can tell you that the minimum wage has increased by almost 40 percent between 2010 and 2014. It is true that the net value of this is much less than 11 per cent - it is worth adding - but of course it is also worth mentioning - that the situation in the Hungarian economy between 2010 and 2012 was quite different than in the period after 2013, when we were able to increase the number of employees in the competitive sector with a GDP growth of 2-3 per cent. This economy receives extra income, and extra income, performance, can then be used to increase wages. I would like to confirm the Government's intention to reduce taxes on work in the next period, not to burden those who work. Whether it is a reduction in her health or a reduction in corporate income tax, or other factors that will help to keep more money than working people net, and low inflation will provide an opportunity for this salary to be worth more when someone goes into the store to buy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-78	Ladies and gentlemen, I hand over the meeting to Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-04-07-79	Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Member László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to press reports, Csaba Tarsoly, the large entrepreneur involved in the brokerage scandal, has been admitted to the Parliament since 2013, as the Prime Minister's Office has given him a parliamentary entrance. The fact that the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Péter Szijjártó, may have made your decision, or anyone else, is difficult to see, but it is certain that the highest governmental circles wanted the Quaestor leader to be available at any time. It would be an interesting question in itself as to who made the decision. However, it is certain that it is not just a simple entrance. Interestingly, the Hungarian National Trading House was launched in 2013 with Quaestor's participation, in which it was able to manage several billion forints of public money, Mr Tarsoly. This business has only been done with a government background. But the success series did not end, the Visa World Center in Moscow was established in 2014 in which it also acquired significant ownership positions. A certain Szilárd Kiss may also have a name for the case, which, I think, could also be discussed. On this matter, it seems obvious that with the parliamentary entrance, you also have the exclusive opportunity to enter government shops. It is interesting that the Prime Minister's Office considers the entry to Parliament not as a work tool, but as a privilege, as a VIP service, to be given to the person who serves it well. I ask Minister: to whom, to what other business circles do they grant access to Parliament? What was the specific reason for Csaba Tarsoly's entry? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-04-07-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-04-07-82	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the question, I wish I had another kind of answer, but I cannot do it in the walls of this House right now, I believe that Mr President would not give me the opportunity to do so. The answer is about that Mr Csaba Tarsoly - Csaba Quaestor - may have received a parliamentary entrance from the Office of Parliament because the Secretary-General of State of the Prime Minister's Office, who was still responsible for the foreign economy, asked for it, I put it up as the State Secretary in charge of the application, and then the request was submitted, the Parliament authorised the entrance and issued it, and the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs took over it; explaining that Mr Csaba Tarsoly needed to enter Parliament on a regular basis with the reduction of obstacles. Fortunately, time has proved that Csaba Tarsoly is unworthy of trust and is now serving his time in pre-trial detention, unlike others, who have damaged several tens of thousands of people in Hungary over the last 25 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[13.00]]
u2015-04-07-83	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Why did you allow and allow the criminal lifestyle to continue to be so extreme? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will respond. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, After the death of the oxen, I wondered if the Honourable Secretary of State had thought about why. Maybe he looked into what happened, looked through the case files. He must have realized everything wasn't all right. A criminal, ignoring the authority's call, will not go to jail, and will attack police officers in custody with an axe. By any chance, do not believe that this is an extraordinary case, such is life, unfortunately, in Hungary and in the countryside. There are several settlements where complete police stations have been attacked, such as Nagykata and Hatvan. After the death of the elderly, the next generation who would do a useful job for society will not move into their homes because they are fleeing. Unvalued houses are bought or move in arbitraryly by offenders who engage in criminal behaviour. These individuals separate themselves, form their own laws, and loot their environment during their raids, causing great damage. Of course, they are outraged if they are tried to sanction them in accordance with the laws of Hungary. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State why they have allowed and continue to allow criminal life, especially its extreme exercise. Why doesn't the government provide legal conditions to help the police function effectively? Why can a criminal in Hungary today think that he is free to do anything against the police, and why can any criminal living person systematically humiliate the police during an attestation or any other police action? I look forward to your honest answer, and I am not only asking you this, but also the tens of thousands of policemen who are serving in Hungary. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In his question, he links three crimes that are quite far apart in time. In 2009, the case of Nagykatátan occurred, in 2012 the second case occurred in Hatvan, and this year was the third case. So linking these cases and creating a tendency or prejudice, I think, is wrong. Even in Örkény, although this was the last time it happened in Örkény anyway, where life is far from that, there are crimes. There are indeed crimes in the countryside and in the big cities, but to conclude that this is life or this life in the countryside, I think it would be a mistake. The police will take action against anyone who violates the law, and according to our laws, anyone who violates the law will have to face the same procedure. The police ensure the security of life and property, as well as the right to protection for everyone. In all cases, criminal proceedings are initiated, conducted, implemented and no double standards are applied to anyone in accordance with the law. So everyone before the law is equal, regardless of age, gender, race, denomination. So, honourable Member, there is no way out of any form of discrimination, immunity or criminal offences, violations or other violations, whether based on ethnic or other origins, that it belongs to a minority of some kind. But that is also true: it is not possible to act against anyone because they belong to a minority. We voted for the tightening of the penal code, the Code of Corrections, which you did not support, and I can tell you in this connection that while 383 times in 2010 there was violence against police officers, only 246 cases in 2014. So these laws have reached their goal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question, "What is Szilárd Kiss doing in the Quaestor scandal?" It's an address. I would like to inform the congresswoman that the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, will reply. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-04-07-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since the beginning of January 2008, nearly 400 thousand visas have been issued by the consular department of our Moscow foreign representation. One in five of the more than 2 million Schengen visas issued were thus issued by the Hungarian foreign representation in Moscow; although you refused to admit in your reply to our written question that there were several sources and court judgments confirming that a significant part of the visas issued involved former Hungarian agricultural diplomat Kiss Szilárd. According to Russian court document, Miklós Kiss Szilárd took over EUR 80,000 from Jevgeny Dubrovin to arrange a Hungarian visa for acquaintances of the Russian businessman. As a solid diplomat Kiss also worked on obtaining visas, bringing a significant number of Russian passports to the Hungarian consulate. Russian criminals in Western Europe have been busted, whose visas have been issued at the Hungarian consulate in Moscow. But that wasn't the only problem. The Moscow embassy couldn't handle the many visa applications, so he outsourced it to a private company controlled by his influential Russian partner Kiss Szilárd. The Quaestor Group was also interested in the operation of the company. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, after trying to rescue the money from the bankrupt brokerage company from the trading house and the wallet, also terminated the operating contract with the Moscow visa centre as a fire extinguisher. The question then arises as to how safe Schengen visa issue is in the Moscow visa centre after the former Hungarian diplomat's visa acquisition cases are made public. We still do not know whether there has been an official investigation into the issue of visas and what the result is. What will be the fate of the Moscow Visa Center, Mr. Secretary? That's what we're waiting for. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-07-89	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State of Hungary Levente will give you an answer. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-90	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The MSZP is once again desperately trying to shampoo unrelated cases in connection with the Quaestor scandal. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Answer, don't be impertinent!]] In order to provide credible information to the Hungarian public, I think it is important to state some facts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] The said gentleman had no official role in issuing Hungarian visas in Moscow, and to this day he has not. [[Anita Beringes: What about her partner?]] If there has been a crime, honourable Member, the competent authorities will, of course, investigate it, make the complaint. I can inform you that, given where Szilárd Kiss is currently spending his days, it cannot, of course, be ruled out that he has not acted in good faith in all matters, but my request, if such suspicion is raised, is to make a specific complaint. The competent authorities will investigate the case in full. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The company that took care of the administrative and technical tasks necessary for issuing Hungarian visas in Moscow, given that the Hungarian State is issuing visas in all cases, so the decision to enter the territory of Hungary from Russia was not in the wrong hands of the Quaestor Group. However, he did his job professionally. And as we have said on several occasions in connection with the whole Quaestor scandal, the Hungarian state and the Hungarian ministries considered Quaestor to be a serious company, they had no reason to believe that Quaestor was not a solid, serious company. This, of course, has proved to be not the case today. [[Zoltán Lukács: He won by applying. Was it a tender?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think it is important that a Hungarian company carried out this activity, and it is not an Indian company, for example, which has won this task in other relations during previous foreign affairs management. [[Zoltán Lukács: Was it a tender? Was it a tender? Attila Tamás Harangozó: Lőrinc Mészáros will also win it. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congresswoman! After all, I would like to say that the Hungarian visa issue is in safe hands, the officials of the Hungarian State decide and have always decided who can enter Hungary. The operation of the visa centre in Moscow will soon be resumed with a new operator. Thank you very much for your attention. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-07-91	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Defence a question: "Are the government on the side of war or peace? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, will respond. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Many people have said many things in this House and in other forums about the Russian-Ukrainian war conflict, but neither for me nor for many others has it been revealed what the defence government wants. [[13.10]] He speaks of peace and acts in a completely different way. Usually, hiding behind federal obligations is a server of the interests of the United States. Why am I saying all this? Recently, there have been several movements of the defence government that refer to this conclusion. One would be Ukraine's entry into the V4 battle group. This was supported by the Ministry of Defence, Minister Csaba Hende himself, while Ukraine is neither a member of NATO nor a member of the Visegrád Four, and in this war situation we believe that this is more than a mistake. The other similar step is the Baltic's air defense. This is not a NATO commitment, it is a stand-alone commitment that the defence government has now seen in this war period. The Jobbik did not support them, nor will they support them. Jobbik's position has been clear on this: we are on the side of peace, we want to spare Hungarian people from the expanding, meaningless war against the interests of the Hungarian nation. We know that unfortunately, there are already Hungarian victims of Transcarpathian Hungarians. In order to declare neutrality, Jobbik submitted a draft political statement to Parliament at the end of last year, which was already swept off the table by Fidesz at Commission level. So I ask the honourable Secretary of State whether the government is on the side of war or peace. Is the neutrality of our country a priority in the future, or is it compliance with the US? Why didn't you support the draft political statement already mentioned? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary, like NATO and the European Union, is interested in resolving the crisis in Ukraine as quickly and peacefully as possible, because we believe that there is no armed solution to the crisis. In response to his further statements and statements, which have been repeated many times and yet unprepared, I would also like to say the following. From 2010 we have made country protection the most important goal of the defence. Over the last five years, we have put an end to the loss of military capabilities, and we have reversed this process, and we are assigning the necessary funds to it in the framework of a ten-year development programme. This is confirmed by the 8 percent increase in the defence budget this year. As a result of our work, the Hungarian Defence Office is able to carry out its tasks under the Fundamental Law. As you know, you should know, the task undertaken by the Baltic airspace police in 2012 has nothing to do with the Ukrainian crisis. We will provide air space for non-airworthy NATO countries. Similarly, Ukraine announced its intention to join the Visegrad 4 EU battle group long before the Ukrainian crisis in 2012. I think that you can see that this battalion, which has been established to perform strictly EU tasks, cannot even present a disguised threat to Russia. Following Hungary's national interests, NATO is a member, with 85 percent support a referendum decided on this. All of our country's allies, which feel threatened today or at any time, are assured of our support, and in a similar case we ourselves expect other NATO countries to do so. For the sake of our nation's safety, I would protect everyone from wanting to change that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: When will there be a wage increase in the social sphere and to what extent? It's an address. I would like to inform the vice-president that Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer your question. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-04-07-96	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On 11 March, the government unexpectedly convened the working groups of the career task force. There was no agenda, there was no presentation, and the deadline was very limited. The EMMI representative presented a draft concept of wage measures but was not made public. It continues only to be an understatement, they do not speak clearly, there is no concrete one, and this increases the uncertainty of the people working in the area. State Secretary Czibere said on the matter that they are trying to increase the amount of workers' wages by another 15 billion from July - not raise it, but try. I would also like to introduce the social career model from January 2016, as state secretary Czibere said. It will not be introduced, but, as I said, I would like to introduce it. He also mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that there is also a draft internal rating and an external rating on the table, but at present it is perceived that the former is being introduced. What is the former, and what does it even contain? Will the sectoral wage allowance be included in the basic wage? Do they at least receive a cafeteria for which work is promoted? - such as travel or work clothes. Does the career model motivate you to stay on the track, for example, with a staff guide? Will there be a hazard supplement at least for the status where workers are at risk of life? Will 75% of the workers in the sphere finally get their wages off the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage will ever be reached? Will wage development extend to all employees, all jobs, regardless of maintenance? We look forward to a firm and clear answer: when will there be a wage increase in the social sphere and to what extent? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have tried to alleviate something in the social sphere as early as possible on the low wage level that the Member has referred to, as we can very well see that the work of the people working in this sphere, the work of 93,000 people, who are a large part social nurse, is unfortunately very far apart from each other, with 73,000 out of 93,000 professionals and 20 thousand in technical jobs, so their financial appreciation and the difficulty of their work and the tryingness of their people. For this reason, from 1 January last year we introduced the first wage increase in terms of wage increases policy, a sectoral salary supplement was first made in this sphere, since, even though we increased salaries for teachers, doctors and nurses tried to make a 27 per cent increase in health care, we thought that this kind of wage increase should also be started in the social sphere. But we said that this is not the end of this policy at all, but the beginning, this is the first step in the social sphere's wage arrangement. As you said, the negotiations are ongoing, the Social Secretary of State has negotiated with several trade unions in several rounds, obviously from several directions, so two series of wage negotiations will continue in parallel. Our basic idea is that we obviously want to raise wages in as many sectors as possible, but we can't raise wages on credit, but only after the real performance of the economy. Fortunately, our economy has been expanding since 2013, so there are resources, which is why we were able to raise wages in the social sphere in 2014 and therefore we would like to introduce a career model. It is important that, if the current second phase of state reform develops its final form in the social field and we see what the institutional system is, to which we want to give as many as possible financial recognition, we can add the career to this renewed institutional system, and then we can also take into account the needs that the Member has just mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The rescue station construction programme in the fall? It's an address. I would like to inform Congressman that Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer your question. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-100	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán's campaign bluff proved to be the promise he made in the spring 2014 campaign on the construction of new rescue stations. According to previous promises, 22 new rescue stations should have been built with EU money in the previous cycle and 60 additional ones should have been renovated. Viktor Orbán announced these events last March. In fact, however, only one new rescue station - the Tolna County Bátasék - was completed and only 13 were renovated. The construction of rescue stations is also important because there are still too many settlements in our country where the ambulance can't reach within normal time. Today, there are more than 1100 settlements in Hungary where there is no chance for people living there, some 1.5 million people, to reach them in 15 minutes in case of trouble. For example, it is in my constituency, Kunmadaras. [[13.20]] We also miss the new rescue station, especially in Böhönye, Igalon, Pécsvárad, Sásdon, Szentlőrincen, Jászboldogháza, Köcsen, Kőtelken and Tiszaadony. If the investments have not been completed by November 2015, until the end of the grant cycle, the part of the money that has not yet been spent will be lost. The programme could then only be financed from the National Rescue Service budget. So let's get this straight, Mr. Secretary. The first question is: will those 21 new rescue stations be built, or will the state fail to support them? According to the Minister for Development, the responsibility for slipping is for the municipalities, and the second question is: why are they not helping the municipalities, why are they leaving the municipalities alone, and why are they letting 1.5 million people be safely supplied? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Paramedics must have felt abandoned in 2010, as you know that no ambulances were purchased in the two years preceding that. How irresponsible it was to not only be left behind by modernising rescue stations, but also by buying ambulances! That's what the current government needed to replace. You know that we have acquired more than 300 new ambulances in the last four years, and this year, 21 ambulances out of HUF 500 million have already been purchased, and the procedure has been completed in part, and we will buy another 32 new ambulances worth HUF 770 million this year. These will include four early-born ambulances. If I look at the full support of OMSZ, the Rescue Service, this was HUF 23 billion in 2010, 33 billion in 2014, 33 billion instead of 23 billion in 2014. We have to add that during the year we have increased this 33 billion to 37.5 billion, so there has been a clear increase in the resources of the rescue service and thus the security of the rescue has increased. The fact that you are talking about only 14 rescue stations, which have been renewed or new rescue stations, I believe that this 14 would have been accepted in the previous period, that at least these would have been achieved, but that the construction and modernisation of others continue to progress, the deadline for implementation is scheduled, October 2015 for these new rescue station constructions and renovations. A total of 20 locations will build a new rescue station by October. There will be new rescue stations in Böhönye, Igar, Kadarkút, Pécsvárad, Szentlőrinc, Aggtelek, Krasznokvajda, Sárospatak, Tiszaadony, Kőtelek, Jánoshalma, Tótkomlós, Söjtör, Veszprémvarsány, Jászboldogháza, Mezőberény, Kölcse, Sásd and Bábolna. Here they start hiring rescue car drivers and rescue nurses a month earlier, which is 15 people per rescue station, and the task of OMSZ, as the beneficiary of this, is to cooperate with local authorities and thus help the procedures as much as possible in the area of municipalities. So we're hoping that from October, they'll all be on duty. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Fónagy applauds.]]
u2015-04-07-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. Now we move on to immediate questions. Member Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Attorney General's Office an immediate question on the title of the prosecution's practice contrary to all human rights. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Last week, in your reply to my immediate question on the Fidesz brokerage scandal, you said that you, as a lawyer, should know very well that anyone who is a potential suspect cannot be questioned previously as a witness is contrary to all human rights. I didn't have a chance to respond to that statement at the time, so I'll do it now. There are two problems with him. One is that if it wasn't clear then, although I think it was, I didn't ask for the Quaestor leader's deposition as a witness at the D.A.'s office, I asked for his suspects. The other problem is that the prosecution that you run is engaged in practices that conflict with all the human rights you've mentioned, in matters of political concern, known nationwide, as well as in cases of average judgment. Based on my previous experience as a lawyer, I claim this as well as my colleagues' feedback. It is no coincidence that your statement on this subject, confirmed by the D.A. in an otherwise hard-for-forgetting report, as well as by the statement of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, generated such a professional and public debate. It is a special picantria of the case that you, the Chief Prosecutor's Attorney General, had a bill later declared unconstitutional to the National Assembly, so that the suspect in custody would not be able to meet his attorney for the first 48 hours, the first interview would have to take place without the defense attorney present, and the witness lawyer would not be allowed to attend the witness's interrogation. So, the intent to violate human rights for investigative reasons is not that far from you. So I ask Mr. Attorney General: are you aware that the prosecution and other investigating authorities supervised by the prosecution are using the interview of potential suspects as a standard investigative technique? I would also ask whether, if you rightly consider this to be contrary to human rights, you would like to investigate the practice and take action against unsustainable practice. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-105	Thank you very much. Attorney General Péter Polt has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-106	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In one week, Mr President, the opinion of the Member has changed on this subject, which in this case can be regarded as a fortunate turn of events. A week ago, he literally said, "The question is, why weren't those who were sure to be involved and committed a crime, at least as witnesses, interrogated him?" I answered precisely this question that you, as a lawyer, should know very well that anyone who is a potential suspect cannot be questioned previously as a witness. This contradicts all human rights. So a week ago, Congressman encouraged the prosecution to pursue practically illegal practice, which I rejected. As I understand it, Mr President, you have changed your opinion and you now object to the prosecution's practice contradicting the principle that I have committed myself to. The learning process does not seem to be over, fortunately, the prosecution's practice does not change the way Congressman feels. Congressman, you're confusing things. What I was talking about, and what your question was about, was that anyone who was a potential suspect, but who wasn't enough to give a well-founded statement, couldn't be questioned as a witness. That's what the D.A.'s office enforces in its proceedings. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Hahaha!]] What you're talking about, Congressman, is a completely different matter. Anyone who is not known to be a suspect in the course of the procedure, but who is presumed to be well aware of the events, may and should be questioned as a witness. However, if there is evidence in the course of the proceedings that could lead to a well-founded use of the perpetrator, his procedural position may be changed and he may continue to be a suspect in the case. There is no legal barrier to this, but your previous testimony, if you do not repeat this, cannot be used. So the D.A.'s office acted legally, professionally and effectively in this case, and anyway. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-107	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I think that, in the event that you are not just arguing with me, but rather with the entire legal profession, who consistently claims, at least to the best of my knowledge, that the prosecution and the investigating authorities are pursuing the practice of interviewing potential suspects who were still required to tell the truth at the time as witnesses, then at least it would have been worthwhile to order an investigation or order it. I am sorry to hear that Mr. General Prosecutor does not intend to do so, which is why I would like to tell Mr. General Prosecutor that the Supervisory Sub-Committee of the Judicial Committee will deal with and wish for the matter, and as Chairman of the subcommittee, in order to prepare the committee meeting, I will ask the Chamber of the Supreme Prosecutors, the National Court Office and the College of Criminal Justice whether they are aware of such practices, whether their position on this matter is legal or a solution to the rule of law. So I think it will be worth returning to this question. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Attorney General. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-110	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, If it were such a practice, it would also have to be reflected in the practice of the courts. I don't know about that. We'd be happy to do any kind of investigation. By the way, I would like to draw your attention to this reminder, which is about certain issues of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and serves as a guide to all prosecutors, June 2014, but also has a history. That's exactly what I said, and that's a requirement for prosecutors, by the way. Let's shoot it with a profit. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2015-04-07-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi and Ádám Mirkóczki, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who is it in your interest? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask Mr. Ádám Mirkóczki, the notary of the National Assembly, who will give the question on behalf of the two of them, whether or not he will accept the person of the responder or wait for Prime Minister.
u2015-04-07-112	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2015-04-07-113	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who belong to the Quaestor coalition? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. Congressman tells me with a nod to the head that he accepts the identity of the responder. So Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2015-04-07-114	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik uses the term Quaestor coalition very often before the interim election in Tapolca. It's not a baseless cutting when we say that the Quaestor Coalition is a member of the MSZP and Fidesz. In the case of MSZP, it could be said very simplisticly that a 17 billion-dollar guarantee-like situation could have occurred as reported; and not by exaggerating we can also say that the Fidesz-KDNP government has actually left this area unorganized for four and a half years, and has helped Hungarian people to get their money directly or indirectly on the stock market and to play with it. But let's not make this so simple. Let us ask the specific questions that could lead to criminal liability. ETO Park Kft. has become a strategically high-ranking farmer, from which, in essence, it can only sell its assets on a restricted basis, which we have heard about within the press. In the context of the 2013 story, we need to ask the specific questions that explain why there was no over-planned depreciation at the audit level for these assets, and at all, as the owner of the MFB, the State did not check this whole system, so how could it happen that at the book value of ETO Park we were talking about 21 billion, the total control system failed at 18.7 billion of the MFB loan. In addition to the auditor, we would also like to examine the responsibility of the State, since the State was also the one in 2013 who was supposed to exercise certain supervisory and supervisory powers. And we can say that this total failure has led them to play with hundreds of billions of Hungarian people's money here or there, one way or another. It is clear that these two specific questions call for concrete and immediate answers. That's what I'm counting on for your contribution. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I find it very regrettable that the failure of the Quaestor-broker story, the harm of 30,000 people, and 30,000 victims are being used by Jobbik, stressing several times that in the Tapolca elections, he would like to gain benefits and use the voters to his advantage. That's very unfortunate. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] As far as your specific suggestion is concerned, I don't know if you know what it means to be a coalition. [[Dr. András Schiffer, laughing:]] 'Cause if you knew, you wouldn't be using it in this case in case ETO Park Ltd. was locked by the prosecutors. After all, if you had observed and examined the events, you would have seen that what happened there was that under the MSZP government you were essentially issued without a mortgage, and it was also used during that period, there was no one to verify its use; and from 2010 the Fidesz government, after a lengthy negotiation, essentially forced this company to make the public mortgage registration happen. So Fidesz, the Fidesz government, is asking for this issue, in my opinion, is completely unfounded. But speaking of coalition, I think the Fidesz government has made a coalition with the victims, justice and Parliament. With the victims, so that more and as quickly as possible can get their lost money back under the law, and with the administration of justice, so that we can quickly catch up with those responsible and bring them to account. This process has also started and is in progress. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the Fidesz-KDNP.]]
u2015-04-07-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-118	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary of State has not been able to grasp the essence or core of the question. So you're gonna take advantage of Tapolca's case? ! Mr. Secretary, look inside. Three of their ministries have contributed to bringing Hungarian people's money to a place that is known to result, through unsure means at all. Instead of a secure government debt, you got cash back! Where's the difference, Mr. Secretary? Where are the culprits? Where's the taxpayers' money? That's what you should answer. In 2010, there was a report in the case on which you are now involved in a pathetic explanation. In 2010, I'll say it again! In terms of control, you voted in the same way for the relaxation of the MSZP, and in the last five years, not only have you not done enough in this area, you have basically assisted the financial terror that took place in Hungary, whether it is a foreign exchange loan that you have failed to correct, or that you have allowed someone to exchange money with the Hungarian people! And in the course of accounting, instead of standing up and telling me that they have made a mistake - or have committed crimes, if any - are they still pointing back for the last eight years? ! Your answer is invaluable. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms from the same place: That's right!]]
u2015-04-07-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-120	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm not trying to make you ever accept my answer; you're constantly trying to make whatever answer you're about to get, clearly classify the responder. That's what you did. You didn't care about anything else. He's mixed the currency-loaners with the Quaestor-damaged, but he might be mixing them when he wakes up from his sleep. I'd continue to tell you who the Fidesz government had a coalition with. So I told him about the victims, the justice system and the Parliament. Yes, the Parliament, and the first step of this has already been taken, because the Parliament has adopted the law to divert private property for individuals involved in such crimes with extreme urgency. And in the days before the Parliament, the government will negotiate a package of financial laws tomorrow, which will prevent such cases from ever happening again in Hungary. And that's what's important, not what Tapolca's end result is.
u2015-04-07-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[György Szilágyi: There was no applause! A rare applause in the ranks of the Fidesz-KDNP. Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why is the government keeping secrets? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Minister has asked Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, to reply to an urgent public task. Congressman tells me that you accept the person who is responding, so you have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Even the second Orbán government has encrypted and made it unavailable to patients and the public about the risks they are exposed to in health institutions. Nosocomial infections, i.e. diseases acquired during hospitalisation, not only cause serious problems, but in 2012 3263 cases were recorded compared to 733 cases registered in 2005. This means a nearly four-and-a-half-fold increase between 2005 and 12 - all of a sudden these data were quickly encrypted. Therefore, we do not know exactly how many such cases occur today, like the previous Fidesz government, the current Fidesz government does not publish these statistics either. The fact that Ignác Semmelweis still has to be afraid of an inadequate or undisinstiled hospital environment in his home country is just as desperate in itself. Avoidable infections acquired in hospitals or in primary care pose serious risks to patients, and health care institutions' illnesses are an additional burden to hospitals already overburdened and suffering from debt spirals. [[13.40]] In Hungary, there should not be any money for the purchase of disinfectants or that it is not used in the right way. However, it is absolutely unacceptable that the government does not collect accurate data on the extent of infections or that it does not disclose them, which makes it impossible to solve the problem. Why do some institutions avoid reporting? Why has the data been encrypted, and why hasn't the statistics of the past years been published yet? Do you think it's right that patients and the public don't know the risks they're exposed to? I believe that a responsible government should, on the one hand, do everything in its power to reduce such infections, and, on the other hand, inform the public of such an indisputablely important and serious issue under all circumstances, but you choose to keep secrets. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-04-07-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-124	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to clarify, in many respects, the facts that you say in your immediate question. Our country reports to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control according to a specific order, we also provide data on health care related diseases. The Centre publishes the information in its summary reports, these reports have been made public, they have always been public, so the government does not keep secrets, it sends the data to this European Centre, and it also publishes this information on its website, which can be followed by everyone on the website of this European organisation. For the infections mentioned by you, data for 2014 were also presented to staff of the Government Office, public health and administrative bodies, as well as to hospital hygienists. These data will be aggregated, and if you have the national patient traffic data, then you will also have the opportunity to get to know the latter. I would like to inform you that the National Centre for Epidemiology provides continuous information on healthcare-related infections, on the one hand it takes place in professional publications, and on the other hand Epinfo is published weekly. In the European context, our country is doing well, like the outcome of the 2012 study, and our data is similar to that of Western European countries. With regard to the number of infections and the number of deaths resulting from them, there is a positive trend that the number of outbreaks detected in Hungary has decreased in recent years in this area. The findings of the leaders of the European Centre following their visit in October 2013 and the experts of the Centre believe that the legislation governing the control of infection is modern, fully EU-compliant and that the surveillance system for healthcare-related infections is above the European average. Here, I'll go for a minute, half the European countries don't have such control as in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-07-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr István Ikotity has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-126	Thank you. I claimed that there were 733 cases in 2005 and 3263 cases in 2012, with a clear increase. If Mr. Secretary of State makes use of the possibility that the Act on the Status of Members, or in the first place that you are a State Secretary, goes to a hospital and sees that right now - we said that in the country of Ignác Semmelweis, who in the 1850s realized how disinfection works and what the significance of this is - well, if you go to a hospital at the moment, you see that these disinfectant reservoirs, hand-washing containers are empty when a check comes. But you can experience this at any time, or those who may be following this speech will also experience it, and you can clearly see that this is true. So it's exactly what I said an hour ago on a question of forcing hospitals into a debt spiral that saves money on such things. It's amazing how these hospitals have to save money on these things. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-04-07-127	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, please.
u2015-04-07-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Please, Congressman, do not use the fact that the government forced these hospitals into a debt spiral, because you know very well that this problem also existed in 2010, and that this government is the one that will be able to resolve this issue this year, so it has separated us from the budget - as we discussed one hour ago, which you did not support - 60 billion forints for us to work off these debts. Therefore, even in the past year and in previous years, when there was a source in the E-cassaw that could be used to reduce the debt of hospitals, this was done by the government, precisely so that, in addition to the legislation, there would be a source to enforce these, thereby creating better conditions in hospitals. This is why it is important to organise county-level farming, which has also been mentioned in Parliament today - if not on your question - that it is precisely for these items, from these increased sources, because you did not support this year's budget to bring 6 percent more to health, but Fidesz-KDNP supported this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, these sources should also be provided with such antiseptic equipment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-07-129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Pál Völner, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: 18,000 Volan workers will receive a wage increase. How do real wages grow in 2015? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Congressman accepts the identity of the responder. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-04-07-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Excellent GDP data, continuously improving employment and declining prices are projected to increase further numbers and real demand, and positive developments have a positive impact on the income situation of the population and also contribute to an increase in domestic consumption. In addition, it is enough to mention the career model of teachers, law enforcement workers or health professionals and the social career model, which will affect more than 70,000 workers, starting at the latest on 1 January 2016. This is done by the government not using the wage-raise programme well introduced by socialist governments to take on a gigantic loan package and then distribute it as aid or as a one-off wage increase, as they did in 2003, thereby destroying the national economy. The Fidesz-KDNP government is committed to career models, which gradually increase the wages of workers in the area as compared to the performance of the economy. It should also be borne in mind that the value of wages has been increasing for two years, it has increased by 4 percent in 2014, employment has reached records, last year there have been 210,000 more people working than a year, and since 2010 there have been 455 thousand more people working, and in addition, due to family and contribution allowances, HUF 236 billion remained with families in 2014. The government stopped the price increases, in essence, and all of them did not increase prices, which had not been seen since the '60s. Everyone knows that inflation is a hidden tax on the poor, so the poorer are the main winners of low inflation. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I ask the Secretary of State for his answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-07-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. So the answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-132	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In order to prepare for predictability and collective bargaining, the government has given a good heart to and is committed to making a joint recommendation with national representatives of workers and employers to increase wages in the competitive sector. When adopting the 3-4 percent wage increase recommendation adopted for 2015, as you mentioned, the government's intention to increase wages should not lead to job losses by 2015. According to the KSH's latest first releases, real earnings in the national economy increased significantly by 5.6 percent in January 2015, thus continuing to grow real wages in Hungary for more than two years. In the public sector, in addition to the continuing increase in teachers' wages, the increase in real earnings is ensured by the average 30 percent wage increase of law enforcement and defence workers expected from the middle of the year. The steady rise in jobs and actions, as well as decreasing prices, will further improve the financial situation of families, and will also contribute to an increase in domestic consumption demand. Recent excellent macro-data and positive prospects for further real wage increases and increases in staff. [[13.50]] If the 3-4 per cent recommendation to increase actions is met, real earnings will increase significantly in 2015, continuing the overall increase in real earnings of around 10 per cent between 2010 and 2014. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Pál Völner, has the floor.
u2015-04-07-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, According to reports published in the press, Volán workers will receive a 2.4 percent wage increase and a one-off 30 thousand HUF salary from April 1st. Last week there was a wage agreement between employers and workers at regional transport centres with the integration of Volan companies. The agreement concerns the wages of more than 18,000 employees, so the wage agreement for more than 18,000 full-time workers in the centres also covers the increase in wages and extra-wage benefits and cafeteria, which means a substantial increase in real income. According to this, the 2.4 percent wage development will take place as of April 1, and the employees will receive a one-time allowance of HUF 30 thousand. I ask the Secretary of State how the wage increase helps the Volan workers make a living. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-04-07-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor for a moment.
u2015-04-07-136	Thank you, Mr. President. We also consider Volán workers' wages issues to be of paramount importance because, in recent years, one of the most significant corporate changes to the economy has been made, since 7 companies are now operating as a result of a three-year, otherwise joint work, instead of 24 Volán companies. One of the most important issues of merger and organizational modernisation was to bring wages to the same level without reducing wages for anyone. This was also the reason for more than two years of the process, so that we can bring wages to a level, as you have said, by developing a wage mass between 2.4 and 4.2 in 2013 and 2.8 percent in 2014. I believe that this process proves the result of mutual trust between workers, interest representatives and the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legány, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "Political crime? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Last week, articles were published in both the written and electronic press about OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, bringing proceedings against current Béla Kovács and Csanád Szegedi, who are suspected of abuse and fraud in relation to employees and visitors. According to their information, Balázs Molnár, former contract officer of the European Parliament, filed a complaint against Béla Kovács and Csanád Szegedi, because during his work in Brussels, the official had a view of a number of corruption-suspecting cases, which he had already confessed to in February, and Balázs Lenhardt, who was a Member of the Parliament of Jobbik, also filed a complaint against Csanád Szegedi in the first place. Among other things, OLAF suspects that Members have abused their monthly framework for the use of trainees, assistants and that they have only employed subordinates on paper. According to the articles, Béla Kovács applied J.S. Former Parliamentary Assistant, and Phantom Employee of Csanád Szegedi, Premier Novák was Member of Parliament, Member of the Parliament of Jobbik and Vice-President of the Parliament. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] According to the article, there is also suspicion that Members have abused the bounty of about a hundred visitors that they can accept each year, which they can take care of. Visitors who were students of Transylvania and Transcarpathia were thus accommodated cheaply, and then the difference between actual cost and high-quality bounty was removed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I would like to ask whether the Hungarian investigative authorities, the law enforcement authorities, have initiated proceedings on this political crime; if so, when, if not, why not. Thank you.
u2015-04-07-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to the Attorney General. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2015-04-07-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned that OLAF was investigating the case. By the way, we've been getting that information from the press for the time being. It is important to know about OLAF's procedure that it is administrative, not criminal, and not criminal proceedings. Of course, it may still be that the facts and circumstances revealed by OLAF cover an act contrary to the Hungarian Criminal Code. What I can tell the Member is that we are now also aware of the issues that we are dealing with, and, of course, if we have sufficient evidence and data in our hands, then the Hungarian authorities, especially the prosecution, will not fail. Until then, if you'll excuse me, we don't have anything in our hands at the moment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Zsolt Legény, is the subject of the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I understand that, you know, when we see that Jobbik's politicians and especially the predecessor Novák, who, as it turns out, is involved in the matter, are constantly spewing on the Hungarian parliament and Hungarian public life with political crime, it is at least very questionable to us why you do not initiate proceedings when it turns out that Parliamentary Members are indeed involved in such a serious matter, and MEPs. We may also be able to think that they might want to protect Jobbik in this regard, because it turns out that there is also a representative of Jobbik who is supposedly involved in a case involving a quasi-corporate cemetery, we do not know that. We have also heard that in these cemeteries public funds and public debts have been removed; perhaps the models of the old Josip Tot and Kaya Ibrahim, how shall I put it, have been used. It is clear here that Fidesz and Jobbik sometimes come together, but, of course, we would like to ask the Supreme Prosecutor to do the work impartially, what is your job, and, of course, if a political party is involved, to do the same. Thank you.
u2015-04-07-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking the Attorney General if he wants to make a one-minute comment. [[On Dr. Péter Polt's signal:]] Yes, please.
u2015-04-07-144	Thank you very much. I would like to stress, Member, that this concept does not exist here, that it is a political crime. There are crimes that conflict with the criminal code, and whoever commits them, we act rigorously and consistently against them. If you look at what may have happened in the past, you can see that this happens without a political party position. In the present case, if there is such evidence, we will act, and the public will be informed about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "When will you help the poorest? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I see that the congressman accepts the person who is responding. It's for the congressman. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For many times now, I have to ask you why the government does not want to reduce the VAT on basic foods from 27% to 5%. It is a proven fact that in Hungary more than 4 million people live below the minimum living age, so almost every second Hungarian person earns less, has to make a living with less money than HUF 87 510 per month. I think this is sad, and when the continuing economic success propaganda is heard on the various public service channels, it would be good to add these sad data and facts. In addition, it is clear that in these masses, a realistic, foreseeable time-frame, income increase or a very small amount of revenue can be realised, and it is therefore obvious that their expenditure, the expenditure side, should be reduced by the burden on families. By the way, the fact that you have failed to reduce the VAT content of firewood, which is now off the agenda for six months at the end of the heating season, but in six months' time a new heating season will start, and you have not been able to solve this problem, at the most, it has been resolved and resolved. As regards the reduction of VAT on basic foodstuffs, it is also an increasingly urgent issue, since, contrary to popular belief, this concerns not only the northern and eastern counties, so, Mr. Secretary of State, this is not only the problem of Borsod, Szabolcs, Heves, Nógrád County, but also more and more people are living under the minimum of living in more and more counties of Western Hungary. [[14.00]] This is also true of the Tapolca area. During the campaign in Tapolca, I was surprised to see how similar the problems of Tapolca, Sümeg and Lips are to the problems of people living in the northern and eastern regions. So, if you like, I was wrong, too, I was wrong, because the same problems are the same as the people who live there. Therefore, I ask you whether, given the fact that the product scope is narrower or wider, it is between HUF 70 and 200 billion, you do not see that it is manageable. Aren't poor people worth that much to you? That is why the question of why they do not want to help the poor or when they are finally willing to put this issue on the agenda. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-148	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, So there is a fundamental difference in principle between the Fidesz-KDNP government and you, Jobbik, because poverty policy is not, in our opinion, the right way to adapt taxation to poverty policy, and this is not a good way to go. Just as an example, if we reduce the VAT on basic foods, it will not only benefit people with lower incomes, but also those with higher incomes, which is basically an unfair thing if we just look at that goal. [[István Szávay: What about the tax system, the one-key tax?]] That we want to support the poorer. This does not mean, of course, that VAT on turnover and consumption does not have to be reduced. Yes, we have to reduce it, and we agree on that. At present, however, the government has taken other decisions, approaches the issue in a different way, for example by expanding public employment, thus involving hundreds of thousands of people in income and in the world of work. These people had more money. Either he extended the family tax allowance, the one-key tax system, or the possibility of deducting this tax benefit from contributions. Or, for example, you mentioned that expenditure should be reduced by VAT. When we made the decisions related to the reduction of the rent, we left 300 billion forints a year in people's pockets, so we did exactly what you asked us to do, but not in that way. Or, for example, the settlement of foreign exchange credentials means that there are many people with lower incomes who have more money left in their pockets. Not to mention the increase in income, there has been a real increase in income in Hungary in the last two years, or the issue of inflation, when there is no inflation in the country, the rate of inflation in relation to basic foods is decreasing. So, yes, in other ways, the government is trying to achieve the social policy goal that you are pushing for. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr István Apáti, is the subject of the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-150	Dear Secretary of State, With great patience, I listened to his usual answer, which I dared to envelop in advance. I'll draw your attention to some facts. In spring 2009, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó considered it an excellent idea to reduce the VAT content of basic foodstuffs from 27 to 5 percent. They also made a proposal on this subject, and they did not object at the time, nor did they have any concerns as to how it would appear in final consumer prices, they saw it possible to do so with an excellent State control system, as it would indeed be possible if there were political will to do so. In 2012, when we first submitted this proposal, it was swept off the table, saying that this is not feasible, and there is no guarantee that consumer prices will also fall by 22%. Mr. Secretary. In Germany, the VAT content of basic foods is 7%. Today, Kossuth radio announced that in Romania the VAT on basic foods will be reduced to 9 percent, and the general VAT rate will decrease from 24 to 20 percent. Germany was able to solve it, Romania was able to solve it, because there is a political will to do it, and Hungary cannot solve it, the Hungarian government is always looking for excuses. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-152	Thank you very much. So there is not only a difference in principle between us, but also a responsibility. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] Because you, as opposition parties, are essentially not responsible for the balance of the budget, you are not responsible for Hungary's failure to go back to the excessive deficit procedure. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] They are not responsible for reducing debt in Hungary, and this means a continuous reduction. They are not responsible for ensuring that economic growth is sustained and sustainable, because prosperity and better living will be only then in Hungary. However, they are not responsible for the reduction of the overhead and then the result of the reduction of the overhead is maintained. Obviously, you're responsible for one thing, saying things that people like; so that you can be cute. [[Defiance.]] But they can say cute things, they can say nice things, the responsibility stays on the governing parties, and Fidesz-KDNP will reduce the VAT on basic foods when all the economic and other conditions will be met. It's not up today. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Are you a healthy soul? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári as responding. Congressman, you have the floor, please.
u2015-04-07-154	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On 7 April 1948, the World Health Organisation, WHO, became a specialised UN institution. We remember this event on World Health Day. The aim of the global organisation is to manage and coordinate international health work. According to WHO, health is defined as the degree to which individuals, communities, are able to meet themselves and meet their needs, and to cope with the challenges of the environment, and to strike the right balance. One of the most serious factors affecting health is lifestyle. This is followed by genetic factors, then environmental impacts, health care. Maintaining good health for the population, improving health and developing individual and social responsibility. Every Hungarian citizen's basic human right is the most favourable state of health available. Good health in itself is a significant individual and social value, but also an individual and social resource. The good health of the population is a key to sustainable economic growth. Every year, the WHO highlights a sub-area that is particularly important in the field of health on World Health Day. It's food safety this year. As we know, food supply is a diverse and complex process, from land to table there are many dangers. Unsafe foods can lead to a number of health problems. The majority of food-mediated diseases are due to improper, unsafe preparation of food, both in food-producing businesses and in private households. Therefore, diseases and many other diseases can be prevented by proper education, by appropriate measures. As the WHO mentions, health is not only a lack of disease, but also a state of total physical, mental and social well-being. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State what the government is doing to ensure that the present and future generations are able to face the challenges with a healthy soul. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-156	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government also has an important objective to ensure that the health of the Hungarian population is continuously improved, the number of years spent in health, better access to the care system and reduced inequalities. In January 2015, the government adopted a healthy Hungary sectoral strategy, which, based on the Semmelweis plan, set the goal of achieving these goals. The strategic objective is to increase the life expectancy at birth by two years in health by 2020. In recent years, a number of important measures have been taken to promote a healthier lifestyle. For example, the Act on the Protection of Non-Smokers was one of these, and the Prime Minister of Hungary and Hungary also received WHO recognition in this regard, according to which smoking is not allowed in public, enclosed spaces and community spaces. With this measure, thousands of lives can be saved each year. Between 2012-2014, more than 200,000 people stopped smoking thanks to this measure and probably saved the lives of thousands of people. Several measures have been taken to ensure a healthier meal, which is what the Member has referred to. With the introduction of a public health product tax or, more commonly known as chips tax, we consume fewer products that are harmful to health, and some manufacturers themselves have changed the composition of their products. Artificial trans fatty acids have been proven to play a significant role in the development of cardiovascular diseases, and their reduction to a minimum was decreed in 2014. [[14.10]] The provisions of the new Catering Regulation shall apply from 1 September. This will make the diet more varied, improve its quality, increase the consumption of milk, dairy products, vegetables and fruit, reduce the salt, sugar and fat content of food, reduce the additive and transport the basic ingredients within 40 kilometres. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Mátyás Firtl. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-158	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply, and thank you also for the fact that what you have formulated in the sectoral strategy is trying to achieve, as has been proved in recent years, and for which Mr State Secretary has given examples. However, as we have seen in a number of areas in recent years, food safety issues need to continue on this path, in particular in the part of the need to step up official controls, since these safety checks have to be carried out throughout the whole area, since we have been informed on several occasions about the types of meat products and others in the food chain. But it is equally important not only for your wallet, but also for the complete prohibition and reduction of other genetically manipulated items belonging to the FM wallet. So we continue to support what the government does [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] as set out in the strategy. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-160	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In order to ensure that everyone in Hungary eats non-genetically-manipulated food, it is now laid down by the Fundamental Law. There is a two third guarantee - also in Europe, I think it is very progressive and forward-looking - that there is no way in Hungary to give people food that can be called transgenic or food junk on the shelves of shops, and it is also extremely important what we give in hospitals, what we give mainly in schools, how we make children get used to a healthy meal. This obviously has a number of problems and difficulties, because when people get used to a very salted diet, a very fatty diet at home, they may not even eat the healthy food at school that contains much more milk, it contains a lot more vegetables, it is much healthier prepared. This is therefore a very difficult job, and in many cases children can only be used to this healthy meal. But by adopting this regulation, the government has clearly voted in addition, and tens of thousands of people have received this healthier meal in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman András Schiffer, head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. How could financial supervision allow Quaestor's bond issues? It's an address. I would like to inform Mr Group Leader that President Matolcsy has appointed Mr Ádám Balog, the Vice-President of the MNB, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person of the response or wait for the President to answer.
u2015-04-07-162	Given the urgency, I have to accept it.
u2015-04-07-163	You don't have to, Mr. President...
u2015-04-07-164	Yes, I do. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-04-07-165	...but if you think so, it's self-evident. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2015-04-07-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Law No. 4 The MNB shall, inter alia, identify the business and economic risks to the financial intermediary system as a whole and facilitate the prevention of systemic risks. Then, pursuant to point (c) of paragraph 9, it is also up to the central bank to identify any undesirable business and economic risks to individual financial institutions or to certain sectors of financial institutions and to apply preventive measures. In view of this, it is particularly interesting to get answers to the following questions. Has the central bank received any formal or informal information about the financial situation of the Quaestor group on any level of government in recent months, especially with regard to the supervisors? According to information from an economic paper, Csaba Velkey, an old co-worker in custody working on the Quaestor case, was sent on forced leave a week ago. Why? In addition, I would like to find out why you didn't show up at the central bank: why does Quaestor pay a 9% interest rate when the bank savings interest was 4%? They didn't even look into what Quaestor knows, which means he can pay more than twice as much interest. The question is also whether the MNB examined the loan at least for the post-pooling licence, on 20 November 2014 how it will repay Quaestor Hruri, the entire Quaestor group. The question is also that unlike previous years, the central bank has not allowed 50 billion bonds, but 70 billion bonds. Why? That's interesting because how could the central bank not notice that there were 150 billion fake bonds on the market? The question is also, how can a company with a capital of 10 million be allowed to issue 70 billion bonds? I'm looking forward to your answer. Thank you very much. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2015-04-07-167	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I now give the floor to Vice President Ádám Balog in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-168	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to clarify that the abuse found at Quaestor Securities and Investment Ltd. has nothing to do with Quaestor Hrurira Consultant and Service Ltd. it has to do with an authorised bond scheme; at least it has to do with a very, very large number of metastases. The latter has been implementing a legal bond program for eight years, and the problem has not come from this, but from the 150 billion unauthorized fictitious bond issue that has been revealed in recent weeks. So it's very, very important to isolate the two. It is such a thing, figuratively speaking, that the quality of a car, whether it is a good car or a bad car, is completely independent of the fact that this car is sold four more times, because it obviously requires a different category. If you have raised in your questions why we have approved it, why have we not noticed it, I would like to recall that the Quaestor Group has been licensed for this bond program for eight years. For the first time in 2007, during the Finance Ministry of János Veres, HUF 50 billion was approved. Each year, this HUF 50 billion was subsequently approved. The 70 billion increase, which the Member mentioned, was made in September 2013, before national bank integration. Indeed, the National Bank also increased this license, renewed it, and allowed this program to continue at HUF 70 billion. Of these 70 billion forints, 58 billion forints are actually issued. The remaining 150 billion, as I said before, had nothing to do with this. He asked one of our colleagues about his leave. I'll tell you the truth, I didn't prepare any of this on the basis of the question. I understand you're on vacation. Obviously, if there had been a more serious problem with him, the measure would have been more serious. I would like to repeat why you can pay twice as much interest or not, and we have already indicated that it is not a national banking issue, which is not approved by the central bank. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You don't have to approve. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-169	Thank you very much. For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Schiffer has the floor.
u2015-04-07-170	Okay, so, I'd like to continue to answer my question as to how Quaestor is allowed to issue a 50 billion HUF bond at a 9 percent interest rate with an interest charge of more than HUF 12 million a day. We are talking about a company with a capital of HUF 10 million. Didn't you examine how this company is going to repay anything? Last November, when the central bank gave me another 70 billion, didn't you realize that this was a falling pyramid game? But I could also ask you what Szilárd Kiss was doing in Quaestor's supervisory board. Do you know who Béla Orgován is at the central bank? Wouldn't you, for example, miss a supervisory board, make your work easier? And last but not least, shouldn't the central bank, for example, separate a fund from a huge profit, instead of buying palaces and paintings, so that the damage to the administrative authority can be paid to the Quaestor victims and other injured small investors? Thank you very much. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2015-04-07-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Vice President Ádám Balog has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-172	He asked a number of questions at the beginning of his question. I can say that because the National Bank has nothing to do with it, there is nothing in law or any other regulation on which we should investigate who a supervisory board member is in an institution of this nature. We have a responsibility to providers of financial institutions. Anyone who is not a financial institution, for example, because they are building real estate, has nothing to do with the National Bank at the moment. Nevertheless, I agree with you that the interests of small investors must be better protected from the state central bank, the state. That is why we are proposing today to raise the compensation framework for BEVA to EUR 100 thousand at the OBA level, and we also propose that the government examine the compatibility of OBA and BEVA. We see that the OBA is a well-established, well-functioning institution and that its speed could be used, for example, to compensate for the damage suffered by the victims now. We therefore propose a merger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-04-07-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Antal Rogán is the patron saint of the offshore knights? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. Thank you very much, Mr President, for saying that you accept the person who is responding, and that Mr Bertalan Tóth should be the subject of the vote. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, you announced a great battle against offshore companies. Following their election victory, this momentum subsided, and even in 2011 in a legislative amendment, Antal Rogán, with your votes, removed from the personal income tax law the provision that the tax return should have indicated the amount of dividends not taken out of offshore companies, and even in 2010, a tax rule was abolished, which said that the amounts to be transferred to offshore companies should be subject to a 30% tax. Although in 2011, a law on national assets was passed, which specifically prohibited public companies or local governments from concluding contracts with offshore companies - thus revealed that the real owner of the Public Machine is Lajos Simicska - but we can see that you do not comply with or enforce this law, because under the supervision of Antal Rogán, the settlement bonds are sold by offshore companies, earning a profit of tens of billions forints; we could also see at MET Zrt. that almost a hundred billion were made by companies with offshore backgrounds; but we can also see that Quaestor itself is an offshore-owned company, and neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor the agricultural Ministry, nor even the municipalities were disturbed by such provisions, despite the prohibition of the law on national assets. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State what you think of the relationship between offshore companies and the state. Do you plan to investigate, prosecute or amend tax legislation to charge taxes to these offshore transfers, offshore companies and, once and for all, to discourage Fidesz entrepreneurs from making public money disappear in offshore companies? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go.
u2015-04-07-176	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Your question is addressed to Antal Rogán. I think the reason this attack is on Antal Rogán because he listed the names of the 12 Members who did not vote in Parliament in connection with the brokerage scandal is because they have to comply with their private assets before the criminal proceedings start if the damage is greater than HUF 50 million. So this is obviously a payback. The MSZP representative therefore defends the LMPs who voted 'no' and the independent representatives. The government does not have to explain to offshore companies, because what the MSZP government has not done by 2010, the Fidesz government has done, namely that companies with uncertain, opaque backgrounds cannot do any service, supply or construction work in Hungary through public procurement, and this law is still being respected. As regards the bond sold by the GOK to certain citizens, which is designated by the Economic Commission and not by Antal Rogán, and the Parliament has accepted this amendment, there is transparency in this regard in its entirety, since the Committee has adopted this amendment 4/2010-2014. The eligibility criteria are listed in their entirety. The risk of the transaction's national security is not investigated by the Economic Committee and not by Antal Rogán, but by the Hungarian authorities. I think the Socialist Party should rather think about why, in their time, laws have not been put in place that exclude companies with an opaque ownership structure from this possibility. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-04-07-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I voted in favour of this bill myself, so I have no personal desire for revenge, although if I had known that the various assets in the Quaestor bank were being removed from the law, I would have thought about it. But in any case, I didn't get an answer as to whether a tax charge was planned. You have referred me back to the past, so I would like to tell you that these tax legislation on offshore transfers and offshore distributions was introduced by the previous governments, and then, on the proposal of Antal Rogán, you have deleted it, which allowed these businesses to continue. Please answer my question as to whether you wish to levy new taxes on offshore companies, their references, and once and for all to discourage Fidesz entrepreneurs from taking public money out of Hungary through such companies. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-180	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today, there is no tax relief for offshore companies, so this claim to you means no knowledge of the law or political slippage. The change in tax laws will be brought before Parliament in the autumn, and we will obviously deal with this issue then. But speaking of offshore companies and offshore funds: I have to bring it up again, and I have to tell you, because you asked me not to forget that the real offshore scandal belonged to the President of the Hungarian National Bank, which you have appointed, because, as President of the Hungarian National Bank, András Simor has exported his own assets, his own money from Hungary, and has put it in an offshore company. This is the real offshore scandal that the Socialist President of the Hungarian National Bank voted for in this country! He discredited the entire Hungarian financial system. We should think about that and deal with that. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 14:27. The hour of immediate questioning is over. On behalf of Mr President Novak, he asked for the floor. Now there's a chance for me to give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to Zsolt Legány's accusation at the level of kindergarten, which sounded about as if whoever says it is saying it. The MSZP seems to resent my declaration of war, our declaration of war on political crime, but that is no reason to classify any employment contract in the category of political crime. I would like to take account of that. Of course, I am pleased that politicians who use their different frameworks illegally are accounted for either in the European Parliament or elsewhere. However, as my CV on Parliament's website always showed before the big unveiling, I always did, before I became a Member of Parliament, I was indeed the assistant of a better representative in Hungary. Of course, I didn't start politics today, if you will. Of course, they are trying to make it seem like a loss of faith if we are represented in the European Parliament, but the fact that we want to change a system does not mean that we cannot be representatives of this system or other types of employees of this system, whether in the European Parliament or elsewhere. We also want to change the Hungarian constitutional system, but that does not mean that we do not participate, for example, in the work of the Hungarian Parliament. When I became a Member of Parliament, I gave up my position as Secretary of the European Parliament - if that's what you can call it - so I didn't spend a year as an assistant with a salary of 100 thousand forints a month, which I considered to be a full-time job, and during that time I had no other job. Finally, I'm asking the MSZP to sweep around his own house. Ask, for example, what framework did Tibor Szanyi cover his bet with Goy Motorcyclers and failed, or how he used his MSZP internship program here in Parliament to satisfy his perverted desires... ,
u2015-04-07-183	Congressman!
u2015-04-07-184	...which isn't just an accusation... ,
u2015-04-07-185	Congressman, your adjectives...
u2015-04-07-186	...the evidence can be found on the Kuruc.info News Portal. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-187	Congressman, I'm asking you to choose your markers. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Representative László Varju applied for a post-meeting speech:. The most important events of the last week? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.30]]
u2015-04-07-188	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In recent times, we must consider it an important event that nothing has happened in the health care sector, essentially on the initiative of the government. Here in this House, however, there has been a debate on a specific project that symbolizes quite well the way Fidesz-KDNP and the government stand for health care. This debate between L. Simon László and I developed about two weeks ago, when I claimed that in Jászberény, during the transformation and operation of the hospital, Fidesz uses methods that are repulsive and impossible, at least within normal economic frameworks. These solutions, which are applied there, do not help the economy, but create a situation in which suppliers are placed at a significant disadvantage. In addition, they do so by saying to or informing my fellow Member, Mr János Pócs, that this was done by the former mayor. In comparison, it is the reality, and it is quite obvious today, so I am pleased that Secretary of State L. Simon László is returning to the room, that the treaty with which a very significant HUF 750 million was caused to the Jászberény municipality was terminated on the initiative of the Fidesz MEPs. Yes, it is your responsibility to pay for this damage, not to cover it up. In addition, they seem to be increasingly transforming the debts of suppliers into practices, in the form that they leave the former contract, within the framework of the former company, and pretending that the hospital's new operation is clean and even wants to make it so. Compared to this, such debts were accumulated despite the decision of the Fidesz council and the protest of the mayor of that time. Mr. Secretary. You didn't tell the truth when you tried to prove otherwise. You must therefore account for this, because the reality is that you have done harm to the municipality of Jászberény and the people who live there. In addition, you seem to want to extend the methods used here to others and to other hospitals in the context of the transformation of health care. A few months ago, you promised to put back the 70 billion forints previously withdrawn from the health system, even though they do not do anything but sometimes the source for health care, which was taken from health care, taken from hospitals, drip it for them. In addition, they do so by otherwise sitting down with suppliers, forcing them to actually accept a proportion of their legitimate claims if they pay and waive other claims. Well, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Member, this is unacceptable behaviour. This cannot in any way be in line with what you claim that the debts of hospitals will cease to exist as of 1 April. If you want to eliminate the fact that, by the way, you will not allow legitimate claims to be enforced, you will not want to pay for the work done by the suppliers, you have done the workers who are working day and night to make these hospitals work, you will act dishonestly against them. That is why I demand that the hospital benefits be granted and that the suppliers' demands be met. Give me what's due to health care. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-07-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-190	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think he hasn't said anything new since last week's speech. [[László Varju: Just the truth. An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] Compared to what you said a week ago. I can say the same thing as a week ago, it was your fellow DK politician, the former MSZP mayor, József Gedei, who terminated the contract in 2008, and he was the one who wanted to play HospInvest the hospital. Like it or not, that's the thing. You're gonna have to complain to your partner. The louder you yell in this House, the more you yell in this House, you're not gonna be right. Unfortunately, the facts are not with you. And the voters are aware of the person who wanted to play that hospital to the private operator who was already at the hospital in Eger - point, honourable Member. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-07-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. He applied for a post-meeting speech from Jobbik's group:. The Hungarian representative, Zoltán Magyar, is the barrier to the domestic spread of e-book itself. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In many countries of Europe, electronic, so-called e-book is gradually replacing the paper-based book. The digital age offers enormous potential in the future, it is enough to just think that it can be measured by significantly increasing the popularity of reading among younger people. The only way to meet the expectations of creators and readers is to support innovation and development. The same is true in the book industry. The demand for e-book readers that make reading more comfortable in many ways is increasing. While the world market grew by 20 percent last year, growth in Europe was 30-40 percent. Despite Jobbik's support for traditional book purchase and reading, it is also important to highlight the environmental impact of the digital book, in addition to progress with age. So it would be very important to have the e-book as high as possible in our country. It would also be particularly important to integrate it into the education system. However, this is almost impossible as long as the state is charging the product with such high VAT. Although it is true that when you buy digital content, it is not a physical carrier, and on this basis it is a service, we still have to consider it a cultural product. However, it can be expected that, as with all like products, the VAT key should be 5%, under which it can be marketed. High VAT also has an impact on e-books trade, in such a way that instead of stimulating the legal market, it continues to lead readers to alternative, illegal downloads. In my opinion, when selling the product, we must place the emphasis not on physical existence, but on content, and that is where we must classify it. The topic is on the agenda of more and more countries, because it is not only a dilemma for us, so I think that the Hungarian government must also keep up with these changes. It would be time to think about how the world record is dealing with this problem with a high VAT rate. Companies also need to change pricing strategies to compensate for their losses, review existing service contracts with partners, and sometimes renegotiate them, which is also a lot of money and time. Unfortunately, 27 percent VAT applies to e-books in Hungary, while the European average is much lower. I therefore believe that it would be necessary to reduce the VAT on e-books so as to promote an increasingly widespread form of reading today between young people and, in particular, less young people. Today's Hungarian public education also makes outstanding efforts to educate the growing generations to read and read. The price of printed books is also very high in addition to low VAT, and this is often a serious obstacle to making people properly read, and this is also an obstacle to the goal to be achieved. A cheaper e-book could be used to unlock this. Whether it's printed or digital, content makes a book what it is, not the way readers get it. A book is a book, regardless of its form. The validity of books in the dissemination and development of knowledge and culture, I think, is unquestionable. Our cultural strategy should be central to making reading and literature more popular in our country. So I ask the honourable government what they intend to do to ensure that our country in this rapidly developing field of book use will no longer have a competitive disadvantage and that we can catch up with the countries that have already taken serious action in these areas. Please honor me with your meaningful answer today. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2015-04-07-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone wants to respond on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] State Secretary Ákos Kara will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, In your speech on the distribution of e-books in Hungary, my honourable fellow Member, I must say that you are wrong in at least two places; of course, there is something we agree on. On the one hand, he is mistaken when he claims that reading books today is very backgroundal and that e-books do not spread in Hungary and, on the other hand, when he mentions this alleged process as a failure of the government. The fact is, however, that based on the annual book sales statistics of the Hungarian Publishers' and Booksellers' Association - you said numbers, too, Member, and I am trying to give you numbers - the total volume of the book market without public education textbooks increased by 4.63 percent in 2013 compared to the previous year, and although the 2014 results, so last year's data, are not yet available to me, but from this we can all see that the book reading is not seriously, in a tendency-like background. According to the same data for 2013, the sales of non-paper-based digital books amounted to HUF 862 million, compared to HUF 535 million in 2012, which represents an increase of 61 percent. Thus, although there is no doubt that the development of the domestic e-book market has not yet reached the United States - not even a single EU country, I note - but it is not true that it would fail to develop. It also means, honourable Member, that we all have a job to do, indeed. You can experience this, too, because today we can all see that in many places, as you have referred to it, there will be a common sight on the tablet of people reading electronic books on a special e-book-reading device. Supporting the domestic circulation of e-books and developing the necessary digital skills is also a very important issue for the government, and this is not just a matter of speech. The national infocommunications strategy on the development directions of the Hungarian infocommunication sector 2014-2020 and the related Green Paper treat the development of digital competences among all age groups and groups of citizens as a priority issue, as well as a specific strategic pillar, as one of the main obstacles to the dissemination of e-books and other digital content is the lack of skills for their use. From a content and supply side - I would like to draw your attention to my fellow Member - the Hungarian Electronic Library, which has been operating in the National Széchényi Library since 1994, in which more than 13 thousand works are now available free of charge in digital form for readers, including important works of Hungarian literature that are also used in education. In addition, one of the objectives of the already mentioned infocommunication strategy is to support the digitisation of public collections and library files and to make them available within the framework of copyright. In recent years, in many EU Member States, as you have said, Mr President, I am confirming this, so it is also a need for e-books to be covered by the preferential VAT rate for traditional books. I am sure my fellow Member knows this, but let us tell those who follow our work that there have been stormy EU debates about this throughout the European Union in recent years, there have been stormy debates about VAT. Let us also say that there are infringement proceedings in the case of France and Luxembourg and that the European Court of Justice has taken a decision on a slightly similar subject concerning Finland in September 2014. Dear fellow Member, To sum up, I can tell you that, on the basis of what has been said, the measures presented show that the government is not an obstacle, but is specifically helping citizens to learn the benefits of using e-books, acquire the skills needed to manage them, and have access to content as widely as possible. I ask with respect for the acceptance of my reply. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The basic access to the Internet must be subject-right from the Jobbik Group, and Mr President Novak has applied for an address after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, Fidesz, who is still considering Internet taxation today, said in 2008 in opposition Zsolt Nyitrai, that the Internet is a genre of freedom, not these prevailing trends in the world to tax the Internet, but to make it more free, more accessible to all our countrymen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For this reason, since this statement in the opposition is also tending to be forgotten in the Fidesz government, we are forced to put pressure on the government. Unfortunately, we are unable to vote because you have prohibited a referendum on virtually any important issue from being held by the Fundamental Law. For this reason, the vote is an informal collection of signatures, a street vote and, of course, an Internet vote. on the jobbik.hu website, we try to put pressure on people to answer the question: do you agree that a basic internet service will touch all Hungarian citizens free of charge? We agree with this, because the free internet would boost teleworking, televising, electronic administration, thus reducing unnecessary queues and car traffic, so that, for example, the congestion charge should not be on the agenda even here in Parliament within a few months. We also agree because the third lowest proportion of regular broadband mobile users in the European Union is the third. We also agree with the introduction of the free internet because the government announcement that broadband will be everywhere by 2018 is misleading, because it will only be there where they can pay high charges in international comparison. Compared to gross average earnings, domestic mobile internet charges are more than three times higher than Slovenia and the Czech Republic and 23 times higher than Denmark. With the revenue of the advertising tax that Jobbik also proposed on multi-companies, the free basic internet could be achieved from 8-10 billion forints a year. For better criticism, László L. Simon himself, as State Secretary, and in the closing of the advertising tax, said: "The Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogaras snows use the internet cheaper than we do here. It will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change this area. Let me continue, I have rarely quoted Mr. Secretary of State for so long; there will be no pervert in it, Mr. President, nor rhyme. [[Defiance.]] But it totally reflects Jobbik's point of view. We also ask the Minister - so L. Simon László continues - and we recommend that the government intervene with effective means in the market process, and that we do need to achieve a much cheaper access to the Internet and reach much wider layers and overcome the competitive disadvantage that is already felt. The Secretary of State therefore requested the competent minister, but nothing happened. However, we agree that action must be taken, because the free basic internet could also be a continuation of the reduction of the rent - perhaps this is the only argument, if not so professional, but could convince you, as well as the pro-government ones - both in itself and by reducing the price of major Internet packages. Access to information shall be subject to Article XXI. It is, however, as essential as heating or bathing water. This is something that Viktor Orbán should finally understand, even though he is at odds with the Internet, because, as Gábor Kubatov's famous recording leaked out of his recording, this was not the most outrageous and interesting part, but it is still quoted on this subject -, Mr.Orbán is not very good at computing, we have now made a lot of progress, because, for example, he can receive and send text messages, and he knows the difference between fax and e-mail. 'The party director of Fidesz,' said Fidesz, which is not entirely reassuring to a Prime Minister. In contrast, Jobbik has launched a movement of Internet-friendly settlements, and we are also looking forward to the Prime Minister, to any better settlement where free WiFi access is available in the main squares. But not only has this kind of initiative passed a successful test in Tapolca, Tuzsér, Ózdon, Törökszentmiklós, Monorierdő, Asotthalom, and I could list the settlements where it will be introduced or the ones on which it will be introduced, especially if there will be as many better-run municipalities throughout the country. But not only in Los Angeles, but also in Los Angeles, all households are provided with limited speed, but free Wi-Fi internet access, who wants to get faster, has to pay. [[14.50]] In fact, let's not go so far; T-Mobile gives some voice-based subscriptions a half-gigabyte internet access free of charge, perhaps along the lines of a business policy that many people will subscribe to a larger, faster and unlimited service after using a limited package. That is why we dare to say that mobile operators can be forced to provide free basic internet for a fraction of the current market price by means of state regulation. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Ákos Kara will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, There's no Internet transmitter, there's an Internet consultation. Fidesz consistently represents a programme, committed to spreading broadband internet access. After long preparation, the government decided on broadband development goals already in February 2014 and we have been keeping the deadlines set for this. Dear fellow Member, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope it is not just the signature and data-gathering of Jobbik that keeps this issue on the agenda. [[It's Gábor Kubatov! István Szávay intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] My well-intentioned approach, if I may say, is that Jobbik is keeping the issue on the agenda, as compared to many other parties, including the intentions of the governing parties, because it really doesn't matter how the Hungarian government or Hungary will deal with this issue in the future. Dear fellow Member, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the experience of the last few days, I can see that good politicians are fond of saying that everyone can get free internet from advertising tax revenues in Hungary. On the other hand, the fact is that the revenue from the advertising tax would far from cover the costs of the free internet. So, in my opinion, Jobbik misinformed its electorate with this statement, and - I told you the other day - behind the cover of freeness, probably by introducing a new tax code or increasing the tax burden, could achieve this goal. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the issue of Internet access is indeed a very important issue. The spread of Internet usage is essential for Hungary's development. In today's world, people who do not have access to the Internet can become less successful. Internet access really helps, as my fellow Member said, in everyday information, in contact with family members, in administration, in work, in finding work. I don't think there's any discussion between us. There is no and no debate between us, therefore, that we must constantly encourage and support the further spread of the Internet, the use of the Internet for Hungarian people. Unlike Jobbik, Hungary's government is now not only talking about making Internet use available on the subject, but also acting to achieve it. On the one hand, the Internet consultation is currently taking place, in which we look forward to the views and suggestions of our countrymen. On the other hand, as I said, Fidesz consistently represents a program [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] , committed to spreading broadband internet access. After long preparation, the government already decided in March 2014 on broadband development goals, i.e. the availability of quality internet access to all Hungarian households within a few years. [[Ancient Novak: Within a few years? This is a very specific goal!]] Work started and deadlines laid down in this respect [[Previous Novak: Even the five-year plan was better than this!]] So the government's holding it. Ladies and gentlemen, Broadband development affects one and a half million households, and at the end of the process, modern broadband internet connections will be available to more households. As we have said before, the government will therefore allow all Hungarian households to access the 30 megabit broadband internet until 2018, but by 2020 at the latest. However, we cannot stop here, there are many, hundreds of thousands of people who have not joined or joined the World Wide Web because of a lack of knowledge. We also need to help our fellow citizens learn how to use the Internet, they need to know - and we need to help them to know - the benefits of using the Internet. In addition to the development of the broadband band, we are therefore planning to launch organised training for them and provide Internet tools for those in need. I just want to point out that in recent weeks we have launched the Nyíregyháza program, in which we would like to present to the people of the country how we would like to do so, based on the example of a specific city in the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, The right to access the Internet can therefore be implemented through this complex development in Hungary. As long as there is no broadband infrastructure covering the whole country, access to the Internet cannot be guaranteed anywhere in the country. Moreover, due to the lack of knowledge, the free internet cannot help the situation of our non-Interneting compatriots until the technical conditions for this are met. Thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-07-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Ander Balázs from the Jobbik Group, entitled Rekviem for the small villages in Somogy, sentenced to death, has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I finished last week with Cacpuszta last week my speech on the agenda for small settlements in Somogy, which had been increasingly depopulated and destroyed by governments, which had become a tragic symbol of the region drowning without a public lifeline. György Palkovics, born in the village, has also dedicated an excellent volume of novels to Kakpuszta, in which he commemorates a world that bore the essence of the Hungarian peasant life form, but has now been crushed among the millstones of history, lost sight of it. Let's see how many villages in Somogy can reach the fate of Kakpuszta, how many settlements can the forest take back, and the fallen fences, the fallen walls, can become the sad mementos of the Hungarian passing. According to a study of the shrinking dwarf villages, 60 settlements in Hungary, including 7 Somogyi, have drifted to the edge of depopulation. These last two censuses, i.e. between 2001-2011, so, in just a decade, they lost more than 30 percent of their population. In view of the longer horizon - a few decades - the situation is even worse, as 40 percent of the settlements of Somogy County are waiting for the sad end on the death row. The seven most vulnerable settlements are next. Gadács, first mentioned by the diplomas in 1138; Long water populated with German settlers in the Czech Republic around 1760 during the reign of Maria Theresa; Kaposgyarm hiding among Zselic's Lancaes; XIV. The first written mention of the village was the Rinyaúj people from the year 1352; the Somogydöröcsa with more than 600 years of written history, and the Somogydöröcske already recorded in the medieval documents of the Dömös prepostership in 1138. With its past, traditions, folk songs, and tales, each one is the bearer of a unique and unrepeatable piece of the history of the nation. Their disappearance from the ranks of villages is at least as great a loss from the point of view of the Hungarians and the countryside as it is sad that the destruction of the last of a rare species of animals or plants is irreplaceable for environmentalists. It was just a thought-provoking addition to the terrible decline in the life of the countryside: while at the end of the Horthy age, let's say, in the 1930s, 1,100 souls also lived in Libickosma, there are hardly two dozen people there by now. And similar amazing proportions can still be seen in the villages that are not directly threatened by extinction in the next few years. By looking at the old population censuses of King Rinyaszent, it can be concluded, for example, that compared to today's conditions, whereas Art. At the beginning of the 20th century, the village was able to provide a decent living for 1,200 inhabitants on the ground, while today's significantly reduced population, and a significant proportion of all 400 citizens currently living there, are living in extreme poverty. Bag villages, where there is little job opportunity, and most of those with work are forced to commute. Composed of decades of hard-working government work, squashed society, extremely unfavorable and demographic processes that are also negatively affecting the economy, for which the bell doesn't sound very much. The material entitled "National Development 2030 - National Development and Territorial Development Concept" developed by the government focuses on the fate of small villages of about a third of the country's settlement network under 500 people. [[15.00]] The Action Plan states that a large number of empty properties in small villages should be assessed and a draft should be drawn up for their exploitation. It may not be a courteous attack, a contentless, self-serving opposition demagogy, if I venture to ask the authorities how long the concept of the concept remains empty, the government daydreaming and hoofing procrastination when they follow concrete, tangible actions so that these small settlements in Somogy County or South-Transdanubian, or, if we look at the whole country, small settlements with a very rich history can survive. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, I have listened with a sad heart to what you have just said about the lives of these regions over the past hundred years. And I said to myself that God should not be talking about requiem, but about an alarm or an alarm blowing in this region, because then he would really express the goal, the intention that the Hungarian government has in mind with this area. After all, the government's aim is to bring about an apparent improvement in the social and economic processes of the countryside, which can be seen by all stakeholders. To this end, we aim to implement rural development programmes which, building on the values of people and the community, cultivate traditions, manage natural resources in a sustainable way, and develop agriculture to restore the value of rural life. In the spirit of the above, one of the national programmes set out in the national rural strategy is the development programme for small-scale areas. We are well aware that small villages have low population retention and that demographic erosion is strong. Most of them are characterised by extremely negative demographic and social processes, which also has a negative impact on their economic performance. This is why solving problems in small villages, stopping them from breaking down and reversing the process is a priority task for government and rural policy; the problem of small villages appears as a settlement form with a specific rural development task. In addition to the EU funds for the last year, a specific programme was planned for their development. As a basis for development, we have already supported the agricultural economy, public employment based on the agricultural economy, the social economy, tourism and recreation through a number of measures. The development of community transport to meet the needs of daily work and commuting, the development of economic activities providing the economic basis for small villages, the promotion of local businesses, the promotion of the social economy and its functioning have all been given special attention so far and will continue to be given to them. Allow me to give you some details, so we can talk about specifics. The employment rate in Somogy County was 57 percent in 2014, the highest since the change of regime - even if the number is so terrible. Unemployment was also the highest in 2010: the unemployment rate of 14.1 per cent was now down to 9 per cent. From 2011 to 14 onwards, 144 companies benefited from the SME job-creating investment programme. Businesses won HUF 1.8 billion to create 888 new jobs. The support also contributed to the preservation of 1650 people's jobs. From 2012 to 14 the first job guarantee programme was attended by 1028 people, and in 2013-14, 817 people participated in summer student work in the county. That's not enough. But that something is happening, these figures also show, and I see that the government still has a job to do, and there are a few tasks to fill the last hundred years that we have to work for. One of the main objectives of the rural development programme is job creation. In order to keep the rural population in place and to increase the standard of living, it is crucial to preserve, increase the number of jobs in rural areas and improve the conditions for employment, and to favour small and medium-sized economies. According to the Prime Minister's Office, the rural development programme also supports the provision of basic services and infrastructures to rural areas, with special support for municipalities with a population of less than 1000 inhabitants. The government allocates a total of HUF 70 billion to the two measures during the 2014-20 period. This money, obviously, is not enough to solve all the questions there, but in order to start on the path that leads to the solution, I think it is a good sign, and I ask for your further support and further monitoring of the region. Thank you very much for asking.
u2015-04-07-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sebestyén, who was a member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda with the title Homeless care. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, I planned to take into account the problems of certain actors in the child protection and social care system. Today I would like to talk about homelessness, but I think that this is a topic so big and that the people working in it, the sector, are having such problems that I would like to talk about their problems in a number of speeches after the agenda. What strikes them, and I would like to say first, is the wage problem and the resulting wage tension that is affecting all those in the child protection system and in the social care system. They find that, since the minimum wage is so high today, their salary tables have not changed, so the newcomer earns almost as much or more money as his fellow worker, who worked in the profession for thirty years. In addition, the promises were received regarding the introduction of the career model, but many times have already been discussed in this regard; the last one is 1 January 2015. The question is whether this will be achieved on 1 January and the other question is, in what form, because today, workers in the sector say that at least 50 percent of wage development would be necessary to make this profession viable. Now, considering the problems of homelessness, we know very well that this is not an easy sector of social care. The big problem is that although projects are being made, there are initiatives at government level or government level, but in many cases stakeholders, in the profession, are not asked about them. The latest example of this is that the Ministry of the Interior has taken up - interestingly, a social issue is addressed by the Ministry of the Interior - a community service programme for homeless people, which is professionally undeveloped at a level which, by the way, seems to come from the Ministry of Interior - that it serves nothing but the distribution of money and serves nothing more than to achieve a new statistical improvement by increasing the number of public workers. But - this is the opinion of the profession, I have asked colleagues working in homeless care and managing homeless care in several places - it is not possible to expect to be successful, nor can it really be expected to be successful from their point of view. If this money had been spent by asking the participants in the sector and actually starting out reintegration programmes, we might be able to get from one to the other, and we could lead a lot of people who can still be saved among the homeless back to the open labour market or to normal social life. The other is a very big problem, which has recently become more and more widespread within homelessness, and this is the situation of immigrants. During the previous term, when the amendment of the law was made, and the homeless institutions were obliged to accept refugees who became statusless, we were reassured here in Parliament - but we could not convince - that this concerns only 17 immigrants, and that they now have an ad hoc measure to make this amendment. However, a few years have passed since then, the situation has changed, the flood of immigrants has started from Kosovo, and the flood of immigrants has started through our southern border, in hundreds of thousands of times per day, and more and more people are placed in the status of receiving them by the homeless system, which is a concern in many respects. [[15.10]] From a professional point of view, the concern is that it does not really fit into a homeless supplier's profile to receive refugees and provide refugees, because this would require very specific and individual treatment and care. The second is the danger, because we often do not know who these non-status immigrants are, what they have done in their home and what they might be up to in other parts of Europe. And the third and one of the biggest problems is that many times these people get there without generating a Taj number for them. As social security accounts can only operate through a Taj number, the system, so these people not only have to accept the dangers professionally and from a different point of view, but they have to be provided with care for many times, for months without being given normative treatment. We already know very well that homeless establishments live overnight, they have to play a lot with their norm, so that they can come out of the money they have been given, and if one or two of these refugees, especially in Győr, Szeged or even in Debrecen, burden the homeless supply system, they can collapse and they will not be able to provide the homeless in the settlement and the region. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the representatives of the government if anyone wishes to respond to what has been said. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Mr Sándor Bodó applied for a post-meeting speech entitled World Health Day in the context of the improvements made, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-206	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Charter of the World Health Organisation was adopted on 7 April 1948. Since then, the World Health Day has been held on this day every year. It is very important that we take note of what we have done, what we do every day, so that this very important area of our lives is in order. We know that, but we need to be more aware that health is the most important thing. There's no part of our lives that can work without health. One of the most important tasks of the state is to actively work with society to create and guarantee services and benefits that contribute to ensuring the preservation, prevention and cure of the health of its citizens. Health is the state of total physical, mental and social well-being. Let me therefore take account of the developments and investments we have made in the field of health in our constituency in recent years. We are proud of these results, because we know that more can always be done, but everyone can feel the effects of the results listed below in their own lives. I know that all the work that has been done is the hard work of many people. No unnecessary work done, no unnecessary time spent. Every forint, every minute we do for our health is a useful opportunity. We must ensure that all Hungarians have adequate care, access to all health services, live in small towns or large cities. This task is not simple, because we need to eliminate huge differences, but our goal is to do everything possible to develop and modernise this area. We have to make up for decades of delays every day. We know, of course. But we're on a road and we're moving forward. This is also shown by the investments we have made in recent years, and therefore allow me to take a few minutes to proudly demonstrate what has been achieved here. World Health Day is a very good opportunity for this, because we can see what we have, and we have had the opportunity. The billions of forints that have been used show that we have the opportunity and will to develop this area. In the last six years, we have had the opportunity to improve the performance of health tasks in almost every settlement of our constituency within the framework of the North Great Plain Operational Programme and the Social Renewal Operational Programme. Hajdúszoboszló, Püspökladány, Kaba, Nagyhegyes, Sárrétudvari, Ebes, Hortobágy, Nádudvar, Egyek, Roofless, Földes, are all settlements in our constituency where the everyday life of the people living there can be made easier with the health investments made here. There are tens of thousands of people involved. The development of HUF 60 million that could be used to improve basic health care in 2013 helps people living in and around the Bishop's Council. In the town of Hajduszoboszló, the outpatient supply centre, the sustainable modernisation of the small regional health pillar, was completed with more than HUF 645 million. On the ground it was possible to build a health home from 74 million forints, so that the health care of the village could function properly. In the framework of the North Great Plain operational programme, Kaban was able to spend almost 70 million forints on the renewal of the medical practice, while in Sárrétudvari we upgraded and made the dentist's office accessible from 26 million forints. From 76 million forints to 76 million forints, the municipality of one could turn its medical practice into a health home so that the people living here could receive proper care. Out of 48 million forints We were able to renovate the patron's advisor and the dentist's office in the village without roof; in Nagyhegyes, Hortobágy and Nádudvar there were more than 30 million HUF worth of lifestyle programs for TÁMOP health. Of course, the list is far from over, but allow me to thank all those who have contributed to the success achieved with their sacrifice. We could list the results, but we also know that much remains to be done. Now, on the occasion of World Health Day, I wanted to highlight how important our task is to provide energy, time, and resources and to do something for our health. It is also the task of every responsible, future-oriented government. Municipal plans and development needs are therefore abundant, and I trust that developments and investments in health will continue in the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-07-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone on behalf of the government would like to respond to what has been said. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Mr László Teleki of the MSZP Group spoke after the agenda with the title of poverty for workers before and after Easter. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-208	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For many, Easter Lent will last longer than the end of the religious holiday. Because many people do not have the opportunity to keep a standard of living that is important for their livelihoods on a wage basis. I say this because, today, employee poverty seems to be a cheap concept, although people who live on wages and salaries are increasingly feeling the poverty of workers, and only because they cannot allocate the 80-90 thousand forints monthly income they receive, and not because they are misfarming, but because it is impossible to provide for a living in addition to the rent, especially because children have to be cared for, and they have to take care of their own lives. Therefore, it raises a lot of questions for us, the opposition party, for the Hungarian Socialist Party, in any case whether the government wishes to address this issue at a level that at least eliminates the poverty of employees, because we have been saying for a long time that we ask and demand the government to eliminate the prospect that the income of those living below the minimum level is simply hopeless, and that there is no longer any way to talk about what they can put on the table every day, or what help they can give the children to achieve higher educational outcomes. As a result, I think that the figures could be further listed, that nearly 500,000 children are starving in Hungary today, which is outrageous and intolerable in a democracy, so that we can let this happen and let it happen. When we say that the system of national cooperation is working well, the economy is booming in the country, however, we can also talk about it, and you can see different researches that 500,000 children are starving. I think there's a big problem when you hear a song like that, but even if you were starving, it would be a big problem. However, with nearly half a million children starving, the problem is even greater. But I would go further: I think that when we say what public employment can bring to the family's table, I have to say that it is virtually nothing, because it is not good for anything but to correct statistics, so that the employment rate is in order for the government. We say that this should not be done by people who employ public workers, because we see that the municipalities are also suffering from this issue. They suffer because they cannot give them a job, and besides, the employees feel bad, simply because they see the municipality in trouble and on the other side they cannot provide a livelihood for their families. [[15.20]] Therefore, I think that the government should behave responsibly and say that, yes, if we are working in public employment, we should be able to pay a salary from which it can support itself. We don't see that in this situation. But if I go further and say a few sentences about the most disadvantaged people, the Roma, I have to say the same thing: there are more problems here: their competitiveness is much worse than that of the non-Roma, and in this you can argue with anyone, I would be happy to do it because there are many times when prejudice comes to the fore, which is not common, but it can be said that many employers are watching who they hire, and that if they are of Roma origin, they would be very happy to pass on the opportunity to engage. As a result, it would still be possible to classify the transformation of the vocational training situation, which means that, at least sometimes, Roma have been able to work as skilled workers, but it can be seen that this has also stopped, even if they are increasingly trying to strengthen OKJ training, but they are not able to take up much work with it. As a result, workers' poverty and unemployment poverty are also very advanced here. Tomorrow, April 8th, the Roma world day will be celebrated by the Roma society, but I hope it is not just the Roma society. I have to say that if we look at employment and education, this year will be the black year of the Roma, because they do not see their future in achieving any results in employment, they do not see that there is an outbreak in education, there is an outbreak, because it can be seen that free education costs hard money, and where there are no resources, it is very difficult to train children. Therefore, it will be a black year, a decade, not even a year of gypsyism, and even if you want to celebrate the world Roma Day tomorrow on 8 April, it will be very difficult for you to do so, because unfortunately, the government will not contribute to this, so that the Hungarian Roma feel differently. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-07-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It has brought a really very important problem to Parliament after the agenda, and today, on several occasions, we have had the opportunity to change our minds about wages, unemployment and difficulties in employment. Allow me to start from there, and I hope you will agree that the first and most important step in getting out of poverty is to give people jobs and not aid. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2009, these 300,000 people, who were in the labour register and could receive some kind of active care, were 100,000 people - now I simply put it or round it up - in public employment and gave 28,000 HUF aid to 200,000 people. So your government decided at the time to keep hundreds of thousands of people in the relief system. We think of this the other way around, and through public employment, as long as the competitive sphere in areas and areas will not be such that people with very low educational qualifications, who cannot be brought into the competitive sphere immediately, are considered as a temporary solution, but in any case as a solution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are a lot of very good examples and programmes in Hungary, as well as sample programmes, without sharpening the substance of what I have to say for public employment. What I can suggest to you is that mayors who have not, or have not, taken advantage of these opportunities, feel free to visit, start a website, this website offers good examples and good practices that the Ministry of Interior will share for those who want to be more effective in public employment, to employ more people, and that will obviously be possible later. I don't want to burden you with the figures here, but for a sentence, let me remember that in 2002 the ratio of the minimum wage to the minimum wage was 92 percent, which came down continuously to practically 70 percent by 2010, until 2011 and has since come up, at present 76 percent. So here it is worth paying attention to the trend. Of course, we're a long way from 100 percent. Here, I would like to draw attention: in order for Hungary to have a minimum wage net of HUF 83 300, which at the moment is - and this is the year 2013 because we don't even know the minimum wage for 2014 - people would have to have a gross salary of HUF 133 thousand. This means that we need a 30% wage increase, which I am convinced is that at the moment, although the Hungarian economy is much better off than it was 3-4 years ago, it would not be possible for the system not to dismiss employees, especially those employed at the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and we cannot and do not want to take the risk of that. Wages need to increase, the minimum wage needs to be increased, and average wages in general. Obviously, we also know that this can be decided or decided not only in wage negotiations, but also through tax policy instruments to help people stay more than net. Another very important thing: you mentioned vocational training and said that there is no miracle here either. If we do nothing with vocational training and the young people sit on the school bench for a period of 4-5 years when they get out, they are only able to do a given profession on paper, then we will practically generate high unemployment again and again. There are already areas in Hungary, many areas where, despite high unemployment, employers complain that they cannot find adequate workers, qualified and qualified workers. Therefore, it is very important that we also adapt the vocational training system, and for example, if a Roma-born student lives in a disadvantaged area in Hungary today, he is well educated, has a study contract, he can receive up to HUF 50-60 thousand net! - through various scholarships. So I think, and this is a very important message, that it should not depend on the financial situation of the family on the student's employment or the possibility that the family is able, knows or wants to create the opportunity for the young. So there are a lot of problems, a lot of work to be done, but I ask the honourable Member not to discuss what the Hungarian Government has done in recent years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-07-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, spoke after the agenda, entitled "Improving employment in Somogy" Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-07-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is now a well-known fact that there has been an employment change in Hungary since the change of government in 2010. The development of a new tax system and a change of approach in employment policy have also contributed to the turnaround. The government has quite rightly broken off with the bad socialist tradition that sought to deal with the problems of the unemployed simply by means of pretend solutions, most of all aids. A positive turn in unemployment reduction has been achieved by boosting the economy and by measures to facilitate employment. The above-mentioned public work programme has also played a major role in this process. Here I would also like to respond to what was said by László Teleki, my fellow Member in the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. In my constituency, Congressman, talking to the mayors, I find the countryside, walking through the settlements, that they are very happy about the public work programme and are very appreciative about it. Of course, I agree with you that there is still room for improvement, but at least I think that the net net amount of HUF 50,000 is more than the net amount of HUF 22 or 23 thousand. Therefore, I think, and not judging by the words of the Member, but with all the malicious and pitiful comments on the government's public work programme, they are actually violating the self-esteem and dignity of the Hungarian people to whom this type of employment is a step forward, because it can be a way out of the world of aid and we are trying to bring them back to the world of work. But let us see exactly what the facts show. The number of people employed in Hungary has been higher than 4 million for a year, and according to the latest statistics, 4 million 124 000 people are currently working in Hungary, and this is a 23-year record. Since the change of government, the number of people in employment has increased by 455 thousand and in the last year by more than 110,000. The vast majority of the growth - more than 250 thousand workers - was able to work primarily in the domestic competition sector, while the number of people in public employment exceeded 100,000. [[15.30]] The unemployment rate in Hungary has fallen from 11.5 per cent to around 7 per cent since 2010, while unemployment has increased in both the European Union and the euro area. The average unemployment rate in the 28 Member States has increased from 9.5 per cent to 9.8 per cent, while unemployment in the euro area has increased from 10 per cent to 11.2 per cent in the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can all be proud of our common successes in employment, but we must not be satisfied. Our aim is to achieve full employment and create conditions for it. As a representative of Somogy County, I know that our county's labour market situation is still somewhat less favourable than the national one. Nevertheless, labour market trends have also moved in a positive direction at county level since the change of government in 2010. Analyzing data developments, it is clear that employment in Somogy County is also increasing and unemployment is falling.In 2010-2014, the total number of employees in the county increased by 9,500, corresponding to a growth rate of 8.3 percent. Translated into the language of numbers, this means that 110,000 people are working in Somogy in 2010, now leaving 2014 and more than 119 500 working in Somogy. However, the number of unemployed and the number of registered job seekers are, of course, also showing a clear reduction. Unfortunately, in the employment ranking of the counties, Somogy County is still only ranked 15th. However, it is encouraging that unemployment has fallen from 14 percent in 2010 to 8.9 percent. National and county declines in employment data are also reflected in the districts of Siófok and Tabi in my constituency. Compared to the situation in 2010, the number of job seekers registered in the Siófok constituency decreased by around 1800, from 6300 to 4500. However, it is also important to emphasise that there are significant differences in unemployment between settlements in the region. More favourable indicators can be found mainly in the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton. According to the latest data, the number of registered job seekers is 5.79 percent in Siófok, 3.3 percent in Zamárdi and only 3 percent in Balatonföldvár. Despite the improved trend, we can still see values above 8 percent or even 9 percent in settlements far from Lake Balaton. Between 2011 and 2014, 13 micro and small enterprises in the municipalities of Cape Verde received a total of HUF 107 million of non-refundable and job-creating investment funding from the National Employment Fund. This contributed to the preservation of dozens of jobs and the creation of 62 new jobs. It is also clear that the amount of job creation aid received and the number of businesses interested in the application have increased steadily in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot be satisfied, indeed, but the facts mentioned above [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They certainly give us reason to be confident. I would also like to ask you all to do everything together, regardless of ideological and party affiliation, to improve employment results and to further strengthen the living conditions of Hungarian families. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-07-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Czomba will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as it has been said here in support of figures, for the many times in Parliament, we can clearly see that it is a success area of employment for Hungary since 2010 and that the figures that show up both in the expansion of employment and in the reduction of unemployment are truly impressive. However, if we are talking about where we are going further, let us have a few thoughts on what the Hungarian government's employment policy vision is in the next period. What has happened since 2010 was not an accident, because we have operated instruments, employment policy instruments that have explicitly helped to increase employment, not only in public employment, but also in the competition sector. The period 2010-2014 should be divided into two parts. The first half is practically a time of exit from a crisis, when the engines of the economy were very difficult to start. The question here was to give aid to people or job opportunities, and temporarily until the competitive sector is able to absorb a large number of workers, we have used the public employment system, as there are many areas in the country where the unemployment rate is still above 20%. So one of our major problems, our serious problem is that Austria and Greece are present at the same time in Hungary in terms of employment, because there are regions with a unemployment rate of 2.5-3 percent in Western Hungary, while in the East-Hungary region this is well above 20 percent. We can reduce territorial differences with mobility support, but we cannot and do not wish to relocate tens of thousands of people from the eastern part to the west, but we want them to be able to get the opportunity there in their home. In English: we have to take the jobs where the many working hands are available. Thus, one of the most important tasks of the next period is to reduce these territorial differences and to reduce them primarily because of the growth of the competition sphere. My fellow Members, as long as we trust in the relief system and wait for the miracle, and we have hundreds of thousands of people on welfare, and we are waiting for the economy to start at some point and finally be able to absorb labour and, moreover, a low-skilled, older workforce, then the miracle waiting is certainly the impossible category. So it is very important to use the tools that we have operated and have been successful so far, also in the next period, but the challenge is different now. So it is also very important for the Hungarian government and Hungary today that we are able to provide well-trained professionals with businesses, whether foreign or domestic, or resident, a little, large or medium, in addition to relatively high unemployment. And the honest answer to that is that we're on this case, but it can't be said automatically. If the question of, say, moving into a disadvantaged region is a company looking for 500 people trained for work, and there are 6,000 registered job seekers, I'm not sure we'll be able to fill up the numbers in two months' time. This raises a wide range of problems, and it doesn't take five minutes, but I would just like to point out that the Hungarian government knows about these problems. We need to use tools that do not glue into public work, but, at the first opportunity, provide an opportunity to leave it, and so that it is worth the company's employment, and so that it is also worth leaving this system. Nevertheless, we see that in the coming years we will not be able to maintain this option even without a public employment tool in employment policy, especially on the road to full employment, because the challenge is enormous. There are hundreds of thousands of people waiting here for work, job opportunities, but with small, slow steps, we can certainly move forward, and thanks to God, we will neither dig the trench anymore nor go to the ravine with slow steps, but we can clearly see the results. Obviously, in areas where the problem is greater, there is greater intolerance in this area, so obviously our job is to reduce these territorial differences in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-07-215	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Are you planning to make changes, or do you still think this is the right direction? Mr Demeter, on behalf of the MSZP Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-04-07-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let us look very briefly at the balance of Hungarian foreign policy at the time of the change of regime, over the subsequent period, until today! I think that there can be no discussion between us that, immediately before the change of regime or at the time of the change of regime, a moral capital has been created that has made Hungary a stable partner and a stable, predictable ally for the Western partners and allies. At historical moments, such as the opening of the border, in which MSZP politicians had a historical role [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Back then it was MSZMP.]] , through the change of regime, a lot of decisions have been made by consensus, then, in the real national affairs, everyone has sought consensus and in matters that have a significant impact on the future of our country; unfortunately, that is no longer the case. And what does Hungarian foreign policy look like today? From the change of regime to today, I would like to highlight two very important events, a lot has happened. We joined NATO, and we became members of the European Union; they had the same national consensus as the other issues. Where are we today? Let us not forget the sentences of László Kövér, back in October 2014, which suggested that the problem was that the Euroatlantic world was shaken in a moral sense. [[15.40]] According to Speaker László Fat, it is worth thinking about the careful withdrawal from the EU. That's what Laszlo Fat said last year. We see the government's policy, and in many ways the actions support this kind of behaviour, and here we can say that not the Euroatlantic world has been shaken in a moral sense, but the Hungarian government itself. And what happened at Viktor Orbán's visit to Kazakhstan? After that, according to Kazinform, the Kazakh news agency, Viktor Orbán said in Astrahan that we are equal to the other EU Member States in the EU, but in Brussels we have no relatives, we are different, but the Kazakh people are very close to us. In fact, the Prime Minister believes that finding the path of Hungarian success is difficult, because neither our size nor our natural characteristics indicate it. All I have to add to this is that it does not represent the path of Hungarian success, that the Prime Minister of Hungary is called Viktor Orbán. Let's see what the facts are that are constantly denied by the government. It is a fact, my fellow Members, and you must know this very well that without allies nothing works, Hungary needs allies. This has worked in the past, until now, many of our allied partnerships are hanging on by a thread. Let's see what happened. With Poland, the Polish government, the Hungarian government had a bad relationship, which was not typical of the former. The Czech Republic, Austria and Slovakia have strengthened their cooperation, and Hungary is nowhere in this future cooperation. So, in the cooperation of the V4 that the Hungarian government keeps calling so important, we have also managed to isolate ourselves in it, and then let us not talk about the loss of confidence that is increasing in Hungary, both in the EU and in NATO, because of bad government measures and foreign policy. It is a clear fact that the government lies that their own fidesz, narrow group interests are constantly being lied to as real national interests, so foreign policy does not work, there is no foreign policy in Hungary today, only a Fidesz interest policy. We can see all kinds of openings, east and south, this is not the opening, but this is the policy of shutting down, and I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that if he responds, he does not list the numbers, because there is no result in supporting these all kinds of Eastern and Southern openings. For a moment, how uncredited the Hungarian government is, we can see the troubles. Trouble in the back, scandal in the back, Quaestor case, Buda-Cash case. There are people close to the Hungarian government, like Szilárd Kiss, whose employment can't be said by either the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, even though he was a supervisory committee member in two Quaestor companies. So the Hungarian government is ruining the work of decades, a policy of complete isolation. I would like to make one point: if you are planning a government transformation, you can be sure that it will not be of any use to you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This government will not be credible even as long as the Hungarian Prime Minister is called Viktor Orbán, it will not be authentic. The budget is not a family register, not a jar [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Mr. Orbán's little paw touches it when he wants to buy ice cream. Hold on to that.
u2015-04-07-217	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Levente Magyar. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-218	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I will not argue with all the points listed above, because I am sure that you have some views that the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can agree with, and I would like to get to them first. Congresswoman praised the success of Hungary's foreign policy in 1989-90 and the confidence capital that the country has achieved in these years, and what it has gained, I would like to join in. So the fact that Hungary came to the status of the Western world in the '90s - obviously at a huge price, but it did - is the result of a total national achievement. It is, of course, regrettable that this trust capital and the highly favourable, fundamentally economic political position that Hungary took were practically played after the 2000s, and in the years following the EU accession, Hungary was once at the forefront of all relevant indicators in the region, in the last place or in one of the last places, which we knew from the last places with enormous work, we can only fight back to where we were once in the '90s. So I'm sure there's a consensus here. Congresswoman referred to the debate - let me put it this way - that you imagined or suggested, which, however, I think does not exist, whether Hungary is part of the West or the East. Hungary is clearly an immanent part of the Euroatlantic structures, and in practically our entire history, we have sought to be permanently included in these structures, to become an unquestioned part of the West, so we have had to fight many wars, and we have made huge sacrifices. The fact that Hungary could join the Euroatlantic security and political structures and families in the late 1990s and in the mid-2000s, I think that it is a historical achievement that no one is questioning. Of course, the Hungarian government's orientation in the spirit of a national interest-based foreign policy is also in the direction that had not previously been the main driving force of Hungarian foreign policy, and they did not hold attention to the level of interest and attention that could have been held on the basis of their weight, their role in world politics and their economic performance, which is, I think, a natural and desirable thing. This new foreign policy, so that we are negotiating with powers from which we expect economic results for Hungary as an unquestionable part of the West, I think that this is in order and that the Prime Minister's going to Kazakhstan, the fact that the Prime Minister has visited a number of Asian and Eastern countries throughout the past period, is a clear proof that there is a reception capacity for the opening offered by these partners by Hungary, and this has its numerical results. Madam Congresswoman, I will not - at your request - enter into numbers, but I would like to say that the number on which we have been given a great deal of criticism on your part is just as contrary to what they suggest, namely that a very marginal part of Hungary's external trade flows are directed to areas outside the EU, which makes Hungary one of the last EU Member States. If I remember correctly, only two or three of the 27 Member States are in a worse situation, i.e. the diversification of their external trade relations. I think, Madam Member, and I am sure you agree that this needs to be changed; it is not healthy to have such a unilateral economic dependency. Germany sells almost half of its exports to markets outside the EU. This is what Hungary must strive for, and we want to move from the current level of around 20 percent, and this is why we are opening up to the southern and eastern countries. As for our position within the V4, Hungary has been the leader of this since the beginning of the V4 cooperation. We continue to see the fundamental pillar of our regional policy as the key to further strengthening V4 cooperation. The fact that there are obvious differences on certain serious geopolitical issues is inevitable does not mean that Hungary's commitment would have weakened no matter how much, no matter how much. Please, Congresswoman, give a realistic assessment of the situation, the numbers speak for themselves, and these figures prove that Hungary is based on the results achieved in the '90s. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a new kind of foreign policy can be successful. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-07-219	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What happens on the side of the road? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.50]]
u2015-04-07-220	Mr President, Dear House, While government communication is rhymes with the fact that the situation of foreign exchange lenders seems to have been resolved by the government, and a process called settlement or accountability seems to be taking place simultaneously, the fact is that those involved saw it a little differently. They have tried to perform this in several forums, they have initiated meetings with group leaders and Members, yet the unfortunate situation has arisen that those whose opinions I have to represent here have reached only better Members in this round. In addition to the foreign exchange loan round table, we have been honoured with their presence in a forum to which you are, by the way, the representatives of all the parties, their leaders, the Ministry of National Economy, but even the representative of the Banking Inspector has been invited every time, but they have not taken advantage of it once. At the same time, this should be your responsibility. The Group of Victims of Foreign Water-based Fraud has 6,000 members in the order of magnitude, and at least 30 different groupings have grown over time, so it can be seen that this is a very broad alliance with a representative sample. And it can be said that the hundreds of cases and cases that I once had the opportunity to present in Parliament contain nothing but how many millions of forints the person has taken, how much he has paid back, how much he still owes, and from this it is easy to see how much of the stolen money was taken from him. By the way, I would remind you that there were three categories of processing here, which can be easily expanded into a representative sample, so this hundred sample will be slowly approaching the 500. The first group involved loans between HUF 0-7 million, which were typically loans for car, free use and personal loans. In terms of the large average, after several years of payment, the current debt still exceeds the original amount, with an average of 70.59 percent, i.e. an average of 4.5 million forints, after having repaid 4.2 million, it still owes 7.7 million. Now I'm trying to tell you the basis on which the accounts were subsequently loaded. In fact, in the second group, if you can call it that, there are average foreign exchange credit victims. Here, 12 million dollars were taken on average by the affected person. The fact is that according to the bank's statement, the current debt is 95.87 percent higher on average than the original amount, so we can say that it owes double after the delivens multi-annual payment than it took as so-called credit. In the third group mentioned, small Hungarian-owned enterprises - I do not say that they are medium, rather micro- and small enterprises - which have achieved credit, but the fact is that their current debt after a multi-annual payment is still 83.32 percent higher than the original amount, and since the vast majority of these companies went bankrupt or could go out of business, they also disappeared from the market as employers. So we have suffered demonstrable national economic damage due to the government's legalisation of banks' free robbery, and therefore unduly credited funds to banks' accounts to the detriment of those affected, citizens. Nothing shows this better than the A- and B-listing that was done among the victims. The luckier, the richer were able to wind up at HUF 180 - in my opinion, several Members of Parliament, obviously not in our line - and you pushed the market rate HUF 256 to the so-called, simple man. It was an impertinent solution, but it indicates that they do not perceive the weight of the problem. What we're supposed to be arguing about here, I'd say, is a private institution of bankruptcy. The institution of the private failure, which several parties have often proposed - Jobbik has repeatedly since 2010, would be about the fact that the most difficult ones in the ranks, but those who still have some kind of income or work relationship, can provide help and hundreds of thousands of people are struggling with amazing efforts to pay their loans. The fact is, however, that KDNP - although already campaigning in 2010 - has put it on hold for years, postponed the solution, and we still do not have the controversial bill that, according to the press, looks quite amazing. KDNP would like to get involved in everything according to the ideas, so we call here and now, don't want to interfere with whether or not the elderly family member's treatment can receive money, not wanting to interfere with whether or not the child can study. With the immediate transfer of the private bankrupt institution, we will ensure that at least the minimum protection is given to those involved, until, in my view, a Jobbik government will implement the forinting at the rate of admission. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-07-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State Répássy Róbert responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, His post-meeting comment allows me to share some important information with the Parliament. First of all, you should know that, at the moment, by the end of April, credit institutions will send out settlement notices for foreign exchange loans in more than 1.7 million customer contracts, and, in the case of mortgage loans, the burden of forintling will be reduced by nearly HUF 1 000 billion on the basis of the bill and accepted solutions. So the Parliament did make a tangible contribution to the situation of foreign exchange lenders. In addition to the 1.7 million customer contracts, 170,000 so-called finalized customers are affected by legislative amendments. So it is safe to say that nearly 2 million contracts are affected by these accounting laws. It may not be that many customers, but credit contracts of this magnitude are now being revised. We know that the customers involved in the final repayment had to ask themselves to account for them by the banks, while this settlement is automatic with regard to ongoing foreign exchange contracts, namely contracts that have not yet expired. In the same way, forint-based contracts and contracts actually denominated in foreign currency will be settled automatically between 1 August and 30 September 2015 and the latest settlement will be made by 30 November 2015. At all, the government does not share Jobbik's view that it has not been able to provide substantial assistance to foreign exchange lenders. Of course, it has always been important to bear in mind that foreign exchange lenders are no better off than forint-crediters. About most of the contracts have managed to make their monthly repayment safer after the forinting, as the exchange rate risk is removed from the contracts, so even those who, as a result of the settlement, do not reduce their capital debt to the extent that they feel that this would be a significant reduction, the reduction in the monthly repayment and the predictability of the monthly repayments ensure that they are placed in a more favourable position than when the loan is taken out. Of course, I can't agree with the value judgment that these are false measures, not to mention the fact that Parliament has dealt with the situation of foreign exchange creditors for the first time. According to some calculations, six, but more like eight, amendments to the law have helped foreign exchange creditors from 2010 onwards. Of course, there can still be credible debtors who cannot avail themselves of these benefits. Mr President, you are right that there are already those who are subject to implementation of their assets or assets, in which case the government proposes an asset management solution, and therefore proposes to initiate the purchase of assets by the asset manager. Not to mention the possible introduction of the private failure institution, which was also mentioned by the Member. I would like to add that, in the event of nullity of contracts or contracts, the restoration of the original status would not favour the debtors, since according to the original state, the bank should receive the loan back and the client would lose its property. This solution is not desirable at all, which is why we proposed maintaining and facilitating credit agreements. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-07-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr István Ikotity, from the LMP Group, spoke after the agenda with the title of a real reduction in the rent. Here you go, Congressman. [[16.00]]
u2015-04-07-224	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, When I talk about a real reduction in the rent, I have to make the concept of a passive house understandable and explain it to everyone. A house that is defined as the temperature that is needed for man and which is practical, comfortable, without any heating unit, uses only the heating that is practically necessary to keep the air fresh, so to ventilate, i.e. only the air that is ventilated is heated, nothing else. The building is so isolated that there is no need for additional heating, and in fact the heat of the people living in it, the heat of the equipment and the exposure of sunlight gives enough temperature. I think it may not be possible to talk about a better reduction in overhead costs, and it is completely impossible. However, allow me to add a few thoughts on how we are going or going in this direction in Hungary at all. In line with the energy efficiency concepts advocated by the EU, domestic processes also follow this energy efficiency approach, but practice is significantly below the desired level. Achieving the 2020 targets seems to be a fantasy, the massive renovation of residential buildings is lagging behind, and the efficiency of energy renovations is not satisfactory. Construction performance has been stagnating on an unprecedentedly low level for years. The only advantage of this is that we do not preserve the current poor quality, and there is a chance for a radical renewal in the future. Despite the fact that the first passive houses appeared in Hungary eight years ago, there is still no university education for this. By the way, the first passive house in the world was built in Germany in 1990. There is no permanent coherent support system for passive housing, which offers today's best available technology for energy renovations and new constructions. A civil society organization is dealing with this very intensively, the National Association of Passive House Builders. This organization was founded in 2009 and supports the growth of passive houses, education, education, awareness-raising, professional training, international cooperation, quality control and even certification in Hungary. But instead of support and recognition, unfortunately, all he gets is indifference and opposition. From 2018, a zero-energy requirement system will be in place, but it is still not defined in Hungary what this means. There is no education, support, quality assurance concept on this issue. National action plans are delayed and our country faces infringement procedures. It's a profession that waits. Often skeptical, anti-interested lobbyists and even old masters oppose the necessary change, because it is often called unrealistic, unnecessary. Yet the change has already started at global level, more and more passive houses are being built, not only housing houses, schools, offices, community buildings are being built; more and more experience is gathering, more and more professionals are dealing with this. Even a few years ago, construction had an unrealisticly high unit cost, and it is now getting lower and more and more worthwhile to invest in a passive house. Obviously, in Western Europe, this is extremely fashionable. In order to avoid further fiascoes, it would not be necessary to fall behind, cementing past mistakes, but to catch up with the European frontline, thereby contributing to long-term competitiveness. We can't be successful in the long run with a growing population of buildings. A number of studies have already reported on the positive impact of large-scale deep renovations on the national economy, including practical examples of the fact that building at passive house level is not only good for the climate but also for our wallet and health. The passive houses are the most advanced and best performing buildings worldwide. By the way, huge amounts are flowing worldwide into these investments, energy efficiency, and significant amounts are being released due to decreasing energy consumption. The best research scenarios are consistent with the passive housing standard, confirming that deep renovation is much more worthwhile in the long term than moderate efficiency scenario. The attitude in Hungary is more likely to be a reluctant indicator, which, according to international experience, does not offer any return at all. We propose that passive housing be the basis for drawing up national action plans. It is our moral duty to take the interests of future generations into account when making these decisions. I ask the decision-makers, the representatives of the government, to do so. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-07-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from the Secretary of State, András Aradszki. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-07-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I have to say that in many respects we can agree with what Mr Ikotity said, because the starting point of the energy strategy adopted in 2011 is that we must base primarily on increasing energy efficiency, which means that energy that is not used is the cheapest energy. But until we get here, it's going to be a very long time, and the most radical programs will have the right effect in 4-5-6-8 years. Therefore, it was very important that in 2012 the government announced that it provided affordable energy to the Hungarian population, thus achieving adequate cost reduction results, resulting in savings of nearly HUF 100 billion to the general public in recent years. Of course, it is a very different thing to increase energy efficiency, but the Hungarian government has not stopped increasing energy efficiency. In line with the EU's commitments, by 2020, it committed itself to achieving a 14.65 per cent target in the renewable action plan for renewable sources, with a share of domestic renewable energy in gross final energy consumption of 9.81 per cent in 2013. What I can say, Mr President, is that the government is trying to ensure a significant energy saving for the Hungarian population by implementing the appropriate energy efficiency programmes, taking into account European Union funds. This represents a funding framework of some HUF 500 billion over the next seven years. This HUF 500 billion will be suitable for the renewal of buildings, including condominiums, with significant, tangible and efficient energy use. The proposal for this is in the process of being issued, and I must add that tomorrow's government meeting will discuss the proposal for the transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive, and the relevant bill will be discussed by the House in the very near future, thus avoiding the opening of infringement proceedings on this issue. I believe that the issue of energy efficiency has fallen into good hands after the change of government. This will focus on the use of EU funds and will add appropriate expertise and an appropriate institutional system. As a result, the quality assurance system that will guarantee that investments in energy efficiency do not serve to spend the tender money, but is not achieved to the desired extent and with the desired percentage of efficiency, is the result of energy efficiency investment, i.e. to reduce the energy use of housing, public institutions and condos. I must also say, Congressman, that the passive house does not fall out of this circle. Therefore, if the investor is effectively applying for certain elements of the tender system, which are necessary for the construction of a passive housing, he can actually obtain the State aid necessary for the construction of a passive house in some parts. I'm not saying, I'm not saying, and the government's not saying that it's going to develop a passive housing support system. The main reason for this is that we have a significant lack of resources when looking at the passive housing for the energy efficiency programme. [[16.10]] The aim is to achieve as wide a range of renovations as possible in order to achieve a more complete energy efficiency programme and reduce energy use. I believe that the creation of a passive house is, first and foremost, a wealthier layer in a material sense, and that the more affluent layer can achieve its objectives by investing in such a reduced but energy efficiency investment. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-07-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first day of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on Monday 13 April 2015, in accordance with the agreed working schedule. Now I thank you for your work. Thank you for keeping the record, thank you for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. The meeting's closed. He went home safely and said good night to everyone. Thank you. [[The meeting ended at 4:11 p.m.]]
