u2015-03-23-0	Dear Parliament, Welcome to the 15th day of the spring session of the Parliament. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Ádám Mirkóczki will help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. The questions will then take place from noon to 2:30 p.m., and then about 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. for immediate questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Mátyás Firtl, Mr KDNP, has applied for a speech before today's agenda; he has been given the title of European Heritage under the title Pan-European Picnic Memorial Wall. Congressman, please.
u2015-03-23-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, the Pan-European Picnic Memorial Park, near Sopron, was the first to receive the European Commission's European Heritage Label. prestigious international recognition is due to sites that play an important role in European history, culture and integration. Pan-European Picnic Memorial Park is the site of the pan-European picnic and border break in 1989, where on 19 August 1989 opposition organizers from Sopron and Debrecen organized border picnics on the two sides of the Iron Curtain. With a password. At the event some 600 GDR citizens broke the border between Hungary and Austria, the two world orders, and fled through Austria to the free world. Thus, a peaceful picnic against the borders separating world orders has become a border break and a historic event. In the influence of the event, it exceeded Hungary's borders because it clearly made the process that led to the fall of the Berlin Wall and the reunion of Europe irreversible. As Chancellor Kohl put it, let's not forget, the land under the Brandenburg Gate is Hungarian soil! The demolition of the Berlin Wall began in Hungary, the first step towards German reunification took place at the pan-European picnic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Sopron, the most loyal city in 1277, was loyal to the king, in 1921 to the nation, and in 1989 gave freedom to those who were not free at that time as we were, but we opened our borders to the free world at that time. Sopron sent a message to the world, and the scene says to the world, "You can live your loyalty in freedom." Sopron, the city of loyalty, became a city of freedom in 1989. Several monuments and facilities in the Pan-European Picnic Memorial Park remind us of the event, among them the statue of Miklós Melocco, and the monument to freedom are also the only monument of the regime change in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Thirteen Member States were able to apply for the European Heritage Label with a total of 36 locations and 16 of them were supported by experts. For the first time Hungary has been able to designate a location. I would like to thank the Government, the Ministry of Human Resources, on behalf of Sopron and its region, for supporting Sopron's nomination, recognizing and acknowledging the world's historic act that the Sopron and Debrecen organizers did in 1989, with all those who facilitated or at least did not prevent its success. And thank you for the Pan-European Picnic and 89 Foundation for preserving the credibility of the historic act. The title "European Heritage," which will be completed on 15 April, will take place in a prominent circle such as the Acropolis or the Gdanski shipyard. The title also says that history validates the acts of freedom workers, and I believe that another significant step is to make freedom a known and emblematic pilgrimage site for pan-European picnics and border breaks. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that not only Parliamentary Members associated with Sopron, but all of us are proud that the location of the pan-European picnic has been awarded the title "European Heritage." Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the MSZP. Cries from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]]
u2015-03-23-2	Thank you personally for saying all this, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László responds. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your speech before the agenda, and for another important result and value of your parliamentary district, you have brought to the attention of the public of the country through the Parliament. Allow me to congratulate the city of Sopron, before the Parliament's plenum, on the achievement of the European Heritage Label, which we are all proud of in this country. Of course, the government supported it, as we have heard in the Member's speech, the nomination itself, and we are very pleased that this was supported by the committee that decided on the award. Ladies and gentlemen, Sopron thus rose to the yards in Gdanski and Acropolis in Athens as equivalent European values. So our fellow Member, Mátyás Firtl, shared this good news with us, to which I congratulate the city, the city's leadership and, of course, my fellow Member, who has always been in favour of the initiative. We are pleased that they have recognised the importance of this title, and have taken advantage of the domestic offer issued by the government, in which we have selected the sites to be submitted to the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, 1194/2011 on the establishment of an EU action on the European Heritage Label. Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the selection of sites of symbolic European value, which play a significant role in the history and culture of Europe and in the building of the Union, which meet the objectives set out in the EU Decision and are therefore worthy of the title "European Heritage." The preparation of the EU decision on the European Heritage Label was one of the key achievements of the 2011 Hungarian EU Presidency's cultural programme. Prior to this, the donation of the title "European Heritage" was an intergovernmental initiative. The four prized Hungarian sites - we repeat them - the Royal Castle of Esztergom, the Royal Palace of Visegrád, the Great Church of Debrecen and the Castle of Szigetvár could keep their title in addition to the new procedure. The main focus of the European Commission is not on traditional cultural heritage values, the title can be won by a location that has proven to have contributed to the common history and spirit of the European Union, and its importance is crucial to a common European consciousness. There is no doubt that the Pan-European Picnic Memorial Park in Sopron will also meet this requirement, since Sopron is both a symbolic site for the unification of Germany and for the change of regime in Hungary. Today it is also a memorial park for important educational, youth and tourist events. This memorial park is the starting point and symbol of the common European idea, and it also commemorates the escape to the West of 600 GDR citizens arriving in the area and crossing the border to the news of the peace demonstration held on 19 August 1989. The GDRs began the German reunification process with their escape to Austria, and three months later the Berlin Wall fell. In the tender, the city recorded, I quote, that the park, which preserves the memory of the pan-European picnic, became a symbolic location for the breakdown of the iron curtain, which makes Europe's ideological and economic split into physical isolation, and thus the idea of a common Europe without borders. [[11.10]] With the breakthrough of the Iron Curtain, not only the present Hungarian, German and Austrian participants, but the whole of Europe symbolically said goodbye to the division, the exodus of the GDR refugees led to German reunification through the relaxation of the East German dictatorship, and this also meant the integration of Europe. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, the memorial park can be seen as one of the emblematic sites of the pan-European movement, i.e. initiatives to unify Europe, and as a civil initiative to eradicate Europe's political divide, as the first spectacular attraction and action for integration. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister's Office responsible for the protection of cultural heritage for the selection of candidates at national level, in 2013, as the Member said, the Ministry of Human Resources and, from 2014, the Prime Minister's Office will apply. The selection procedure should therefore be preceded by a selection at national level at two levels, the EU level, according to the EU decision. According to a report from the European Commission's Panel of Experts, in 2014, 13 Member States submitted 36 applications to the European Heritage Label, of which 16 were proposed for the Commission. On 11 March 2015, the title was given to 16 locations, including Sopron, for which we warmly congratulate you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Lukács, MEP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We're past that Sunday when the stores were closed for the first time because of your stupid law. The truth is, we're so far ahead of you that now a few tens of thousands of people hate you more than they hated you on Friday. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: And it's working for you! Hate!]] This will grow nicely every Sunday. You'll smile a lot about it, but there'll come a time when that smile will freeze off your faces. Ladies and Gentlemen, Of course, you are not the first to shut down the shops, since Jobbik presented such a bill with the same momentum in November 2010. Now it's Fidesz's other partner, KDNP, that's the only thing that's got that much on Jobbik. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: And you are on the side of hatred! That's the point!]] that he no longer voted against it, it is true, he did not vote against it, because he was elegantly abstained, and you forced it through society, thus also gaining the greatest love of the people. At least the KDNP has informed us that it exists. KDNP, if they're following the Internet, people - a little unsearchable, but - even in a song. This is a very interesting folk piece, I suggest you listen to me. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The truth is, you guys were talking nonsense, you didn't really have any arguments, you misinterpreted all the arguments. We have told you dozens of problems that will be raised by this law, all of which you have ignored, and yet have been introduced. You said in the debate that there was no measurement, no study of how this Sunday closure would look. Not that they should be proud of this, that they would make a law without any impact assessment, but then it turned out that there was such an impact assessment after all, and then their minister denied that there was such an impact study, and then it turned out that for 3.1 million, such an impact study was carried out, in which, by the way, 15 to 20,000 people could lose their jobs, and by the way, most of it will not be able to work, at least on this labour market, and it is also included that the budget is falling about HUF 50 billion on this law. When we said this in the debate, you said ten times that there was no such problem, that there would be no such problem, and now you're kicking people out of business, closing stores, and that's just the beginning of the story, it's gonna be much more serious than that. Ladies and gentlemen. You will probably withdraw this law, because this law cannot be kept, and when it begins to implement it, you will find out how much tension and how much trouble it causes in society. So, the stores are closed, but not the stores are supposed to be closed, or someone's not closed, who's supposed to be closed. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Sitting behind you!]] He's called Csaba Tarsoly, who comes and goes, goes to football games, he's a lot of fun, and he's supposed to come to work at his company. We don't know if he's missing now or not, but it's likely that he's driven his fortune out of his luxury villa on trucks, and this man, despite the loss of 150-200 billion dollars, is coming and going undisturbed, and he's even allowed to work, obviously in order to dispose of the data he may have at Quaestor. No such thing, there was no example of a company disappearing 150-200 billion forints and not even listening to the head of the company, not preventing the head of the company from continuing access to the company's documents, putting anything in there, removing any evidence, coming and going, going to the game, and pretending it had nothing to do with it. Therefore, the question remains whether the information about insiders to government politicians was true, they were able to save their money from the Quaestor, and the evidence of this is now being removed by Csaba Tarsoly, so they are not arresting him. For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party today initiated a public declaration, in the knowledge of the criminal liability of all Members of Parliament and all members of the Government, that it had no information from the brokerage company, that it did not withdraw money, and that neither did it. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: I think the socialists should do the same.]] And your family is not involved in this case. We will make this statement, we will wait for you to do the same; we are afraid that you will not do it. Ladies and Gentlemen, You shouldn't have innocent people on a leash with your D.A.'s leash, you should wake up to the D.A.'s office and go, say, Csaba Tarsoly, and ask him if he's already missing 150-200 billion from his company, which he stole from small people, then he shouldn't be going to a game, he should be going to an interrogation. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, the floor is for Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-7	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, You can see that they cannot forge left-wing unity, but one thing is certain: the Socialist Party is held together by hatred. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] In the first half of his speech, the congressman could not speak of anything but hatred, he was pleased... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We didn't smile, Congressman, and we listened silently and stunnedly to your speech, and you listened with a satanic smile on your face. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We did not smile, Congressman, and we listened silently and appalledly to your speech, and you, with a satanic smile on your face (Faintness in the ranks of the MSZP). ) said that more people have hated us since Friday... (Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP. ) That more people have hated us since Friday, and that they will, and that smiles will freeze off our faces. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Only your poems are better than this!]] You, honourable Member, seem to be driven by hatred, your speech was determined by anger, anger, jealousy and hatred. [[Dr. István Józsa: The indignation!]] This is how your fellow Member shot one of his fellow Members in the Hungarian Parliament figuratively last week. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] To the neighboring faction, as if he were holding a gun. You, honourable Member, are not influenced by love, not by understanding, not by compassion, and your policy is not determined by these basic human values. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It's hatred, and you've just given me proof of that in the House. [[Constant intervention from the ranks of the MSZP, among other things: Who stole people's money? Answer that. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear fellow Member, I'd be very honored if you'd listen to me. I listened to your outburst. Quietly, silently, I tolerated the fact that you are talking about hatred here in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It wasn't easy!]] You've set aside values, you've ignored values that are essential to us. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Talk about money!]] Of course, when it brings up the problem of keeping closed on Sunday, we kept in mind, all along, what are the important moments of this bill and now adopted law that serve the everyday life and prosperity of Hungarian people. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: What?]] There are certainly some people who are not happy that the shops are closed on Sunday, but most Hungarian people agree with this idea, they agree that they can deal with their family, that instead of hating, they can focus their attention on love, that instead of buying, they will focus on normal community programs and family association. [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention.]] And thanks to God, this law is also in the interest of Hungarian small businesses, because these people [[Dr. István Józsa's intervention.]] up to now, they have had a specific competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis foreign companies taking their place and their position on the market. Dear fellow Member, I can advise you to be more patient, to have more love, to have more understanding and less hatred. [[Dr. István Józsa: Mercy!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa: Tarsoly has not been found!]] [[11.20]]
u2015-03-23-8	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, LMP:. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. Please calm down, the leader of the faction has the floor.
u2015-03-23-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, the Company sued the development portfolio for Freedom Rights for documents on Malév's financial situation. The Malév case is a veterinary horse for Hungary after the change of regime. It turns out that in 2011, you accurately counted on the European Commission's decision to declare Malév's further Dotation as prohibited state aid. The Malév was already a dairy cow during the first Orbán government - we remember the Torgyán aviation dynasty - and this did not change during the false left-wing governments: Malév and its affiliates worked as political paying places. The second Orbán government, six months before bankruptcy, was well aware that this company was irretrievable. The May Other reported bankruptcy, fraud, fraud, or negligence at the beginning of 2012, following bankruptcy. Our questions remain unanswered. We do not understand why heavy tens of billions were poured into Malév in 2011, when they knew precisely that the European Commission would have a ban decision. We do not understand why, following the European Commission's decision to prohibit 9 January 2012, the sale of air tickets continued until the bankruptcy of 3 February. 35 billion passengers were caused by this irresponsible move, and by continuing air ticket and other sales by Malév. Why did the billion-dollar property rights have to be lost, so the airport landing rights? One such right is worth 2-3 billion forints. We do not understand why the government did not request bankruptcy protection for Malév at the end of 2011, January 2012. Looking back over the last few years, we can see that two actors have certainly benefited from Malév's bankruptcy. One is Wizz Air and the other is Jenő Varga, Jenő Varga Vestigalis, who somehow became the liquidator of Malév. According to the documents sued, it is clear that there is a controlled liquidation. As early as 2011, the advisory companies indicated that Malév should not be the one asking for bankruptcy, but that some friendly creditor should ask for liquidation proceedings, as it would not be necessary to tell trade unions. The consultants also proposed an amendment to the law, and you did so in a slavish manner, and in the summer of 2011 there was the law on the winding-up of so-called priority companies, the government decrees will be published on 30 December and let us see a miracle, and on 30 January 2012 a government decree will be published which otherwise regards Malév as a priority for the national economy. Two days later, a small company, Bellum 2000 Kft. submit the request for liquidation. And let's see a miracle, Bellum 2000 Kft. Behind him is Jenő Varga, who in a week's time as the administrator of Malév's bankruptcy. And who is this Jenő Varga? Not only is it related to Bellum 2000 Kft., he owns Vectigalis - we're talking about a billionaire in Pécs - and behind him is the company Strabil with a János Komlós in the background, whose company Öresund was doing business with Tamás Meggyes, a business with the municipality of Pécs, and this company Jenő Varga was a good friend of Ferenc Gyurcsány, one of the leaders of MSZMP in Pécs in 89. It is quite a coincidence that in the summer of 2010 his wife was proposed by the socialists as constitutional judge by Gábor Simon. His wife is now the judge of the Curia, she accidentally rescued Gyula Molnár. Jenő Varga, after the liquidation, first in the order of satisfaction, must have benefited. The workers were kept secret until the last moment about what was going to happen, and today we see that 50 percent of wage claims are covered, two thousand people are outnumbered by Malév, 20,000 people are affected by this bankruptcy. Out of 400 pilots, 60-70 were able to get a job. Trade unions complained all along about the lack of information, and there was a trade union that suggested that at least the subsidiaries should launch a part-ownership programme for employees. And here we are: in the coming months, we will make proposals that, in any case, when it comes to a company with state aid, it is a company that has accumulated serious wage claims, it is a company that has accumulated serious public debts. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the event of the insolvency of such companies, allow workers' property, workers' associations. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary General Major will answer. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The theme of Malév deserves more than five minutes, and it deserves more than you, well, let's just say, your daily political effort to blow this balloon. Malév was always the representative company of the society at the time before the change of regime; he did not have a Deputy Minister in one of the ministries, and he wanted an office in Vörösmarty Square, that Malév had some sort of rank leader. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It's a shame!]] And to work there always meant a selected reliability, a chosen rank. Malév, the Hungarian airline, had three elements before the change of regime: airspace management, airport and airline. This was the case in most parts of the world at the time; I say to the younger Members that this was before the accession of the EU and the change of regime. Air traffic control brought the money, the airport brought the money, the airline took the money. That's the way it is all over the world. It is not by accident, for example, that domestic airlines in the United States use not large international airports but their own operating airports. One of the most important points of the EU pre-negotiations in 1998-1999-2000 was that, in particular, Hungary was required to take apart the national airline and to treat Ferihegy as a separate company and the airline as a separate company. Take a look at the EU pre-accession negotiations: it was a specific point. Hungary did so then, and we created the three companies on our own. And at that moment it was revealed that what was otherwise known internally, in substance, was that an airline consisting of twenty-something of leased machinery could not operate economically. If there is no cross-subsidisation, the airline will not survive on its own. Neither Sabena, nor KLM, nor Swissair, all European companies of the same size have been destroyed, or have become a part of Lufthansa, or, for example, the Swiss, who are not EU members, have moved internal resources that they could not do as members of the EU. Malév had 5-10 losses in a better year, 15-20-25 billion losses in a worse year. It is no coincidence that the first Orbán government has also made efforts to operate Malév as part of some so-called EU, larger air alliance, and who still remembers it, we have negotiated with the Italians, the Altalia, and for two or three years that variation has also gone on. Between 2002 and 2010, the processes were managed by the MSZP-SZDSZ government. They contacted the Russian airline as a partner, which, I must say, didn't seem like a bad idea at the time. Another thing is that the Russian airline at home became uncredited, lost its internal support - they insisted. That's when the banking relations that we've been moaning about to this day and in which the then SZDSZ economy - the internal logic of which you need to know better than I do. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You made a deal with them!]] - you've created these situations. My mom always told me not to talk about other people's speeches, but it's a matter of upbringing. So we knew the situation in 2010. We also knew that the socialists alone sought to push this debt from 15 to 20 billion per year beyond their term of government. That's how it happened. [[11.30]] All this time, we've kept in mind, and what you're throwing at us, I'm going to say as a credit: yes, it was our goal all along, and it's still our goal to save the non-autonomous national airline from another, possibly to keep its audience, its routes. That's why we worked, and that's why everything that you've been throwing up on us is weird. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, leader of the group, Jobbik, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the effects of the broker scandal. You have the floor. Here.
u2015-03-23-13	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today, corruption is the most serious problem of public life in Hungary, which is why it is very serious and outrageous that in November 2010 you jointly rejected 24 proposals of Jobbik, representatives of Fidesz and MSZP. My fellow Member, János Volner, has tabled these proposals, and they would have been able to prevent the broker scandal that has now been created. In this way, you have been indirectly responsible for this 300 billion-dollar social damage. But the situation is even more serious, as there is a suspicion that you have not only contributed indirectly to this brokerage scandal, but, unfortunately, politics has also been directly involved in this very serious social damage. Exactly who was involved in the broker scandal, we're still guessing, aren't we, that's what we're discussing right now. One thing's for sure, Jobbik wasn't involved in the broker scandal. Fidesz says it's about the MSZP brokerage scandal, MSZP says it's about the Fidesz brokerage, right? I'd like to do justice in so far as I think it's a Fidesz-MSZP coalition brokerage scandal. The only reason I can't say that it's a major coalition is because the current support index of the MSZP doesn't allow the use of the term "big koal" to be used. We see that after the rain, the Hungarian National Bank is trying to do everything possible, and we see that the Buda-Cash or the Hungária Securities have been reported and arrested, but the question arises why this has not happened with regard to Quaestor to this day. There's a lot of press information out there that's trying to discuss the direct relationship between Fidesz and Quaestor. It would be very good if the Fidesz could finally clarify whether it might not be the one preventing any meaningful action from taking place in the case of Quaestor. Congressman Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, will announce your bill shortly before the agenda, which, according to the news, will allow brokerage companies to answer for these social damage with their assets. I was very pleased to hear your words on Kossuth Radio this morning, it was a pleasure to hear this knightly, karakan, with a stone-hard, burning plank in his hand, the leader of the faction who fights corruption. I must say, I am also encouraged by his influence, and I would ask Mr. Group Leader - he will arrive soon and then be translated - not to stop. This kind of feverish, tough, fighter stand against corruption, and, in the spirit of national cooperation, we will eventually extend the possibility of financial responsibility to politicians. At last, politicians should answer for their wealth, for the crimes they have committed. Let's say corrupt mayors, congressmen, finally, they, by increasing the sense of justice of society, are responsible for the crimes they have committed. And since it is irritating to society that politicians often rescue stolen property for family members, perhaps we should start by making public the declaration of property of our family members, which we do not yet publish publicly. At the moment, the only faction in the Hungarian Parliament dared to do this, the faction of Jobbik. Neither the Fidesz nor the MSZP faction has made that decision yet. I would like to ask Mr Group Leader to address this several times in his speech before the burning agenda, that yes, the Fidesz faction and the MSZP faction will also publish the family members' declarations of property. Corruption poisons the relationship between Hungarian society and politics, which was not good anyway. And that's exactly how Jobbik decided at the beginning of this year, personally, to announce the year of volunteering. The point is that Jobbik representatives pay 10% of their monthly salary to a charity. On the other hand, one working day per month is volunteered in a charitable, cultural or social area. Maybe I don't have to explain why this is good. Politics learns humility, learns about the everyday lives of hardworking young people, and can see into the lives of sectors and professions that we make every day. It would be difficult to deny that this is a good initiative, although there may be people who will try to do so. But there's still a problem with that. This kind of commitment, the year of volunteering, voluntary work, has started, and unfortunately we find that there is a great deal of it, and what God gives us, Fidesz town leader directly hinders it, while there would be no legal obstacle to my fellow Members doing their job. This is the situation of my colleague, Lajos Kepli, and others. Or, if not directly, indirectly, by threatening the head of the institution to prevent voluntary work. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who have appeared here today for the speeches before the agenda, to tell your local people to stop being such pies. We don't expect you to do that, although it might be best for you to participate in this volunteer work, to work together as a volunteer in charitable social areas at last, but if you don't like it, if you don't like it, we can accept it, all we ask is for your local people to be told that this is a petty thing, a pathetic thing. Stop them, because in the future, any such initiative, when someone prevents a better representative from volunteering for political reasons, will be named here, in front of the public of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-23-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, It is clear and understandable to me that Jobbik wants to turn everything into political capital. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's why he says Jobbik isn't involved in the brokerage. But he was involved in other things, such as spy charges, treason. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] or, failing to honor history, a member of the Parliament who spits in his shoes at the Holocaust Memorial. So there's something to hide for Jobbik, I feel. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Forging political capital.]] Before you make the accusations in the broker's case to the governing party, Fidesz, I would like to tell you that, after a decade of financial corruption, and that the change of regime carried this along, unfortunately, we may be able to conclude the part of financial corruption in the change of regime. Let me say, however, that during the Fidesz government, during the parliamentary majority of Fidesz, this hidden corruption was discovered. At the same time, during the MSZP government, there are tangible signs and evidence that, for example, Buda-Cash was tried to cover up the last-minute audit, in the hope that, in five years' time, the audit will take place again during the next change of government. I think it would be much better for Jobbik, by the way, if it were really to deal with the consequences, what the Parliament's task is, what laws should be amended in order to make financial control more frequent. [[Dóra Dúró: We only submitted 24. Dr. András Schiffer: You've been ruling for five years.]] In fact, financial control should be more effective so that prevention, because people will come after us, is fully effective and that it will not happen again in Hungary by 100%. True, we also need to deal with how those who have committed this serious misdemeanor will account for it. To account for their wealth, to account for their laws, and if they commit a crime, what consequences will there be? [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] In more detail, Mr Antal Rogán will talk about this in his speech before the next agenda, as you have said. I think the government has a job to do. In particular, the government still has a role to play in terms of compensation. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Compensation.]] Indemnification is necessary for people who are innocently involved in this. Today, this is regulated by several laws. It is quite different when you place deposits with a bank and different when you invest with a financial investor service provider. There are two separate laws for that. We know that in the first case, people will be compensated up to EUR 100 000 and in the second case up to EUR 20 000. It is important to decide which cases are covered by the Deposit Protection Fund in respect of Quaestor, as there are a large number of victims. This will then be considered legally. It is also very important that we are able to ensure the operation of the municipalities after public funds are managed and public funds are placed at the bankrupt banks. The first step of this has already been taken. The damage is currently being assessed, and then a government decision can be made on the extent to which assistance can be provided. [[11.40]] And, of course, we also have to assume that many, many entrepreneurs have fallen victim to these probable crimes. Obviously, it is also necessary to assess, for example, who is affected by this and who may need exceptional assistance in terms of investment in the European Union. There's a lot of work to be done by the government, Parliament, investigative authorities. We are asking the Jobbik faction to support the legislative proposals that will be presented to Parliament in the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, Fidesz:. The resolution of banks and brokers was also announced before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, these weeks are the first times that banks are accounted for, which Parliament has already made decisions about much earlier. Between 1 March and 30 April, 1 million 700,000 Hungarian families receive letters from the banks, with 1 million 700 thousand foreign exchange credit contracts, the banks have to account for years of abuse that has damaged people when the bankers have abused their power. Thanks to the responsible decision of the National Assembly, for 1 million 700 thousand contracts, Hungarian families will receive several hundred thousand forints or even a million forints, and the repayments of foreign exchange-based mortgage loans will be significantly reduced after the forinting. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been through long and difficult decisions; when the Parliament made these decisions, we argued on this a lot. There was one of these laws, for which the opposition factions unanimously voted 'no', and today, I think you can clearly see that if we hadn't done this, the Hungarian families would have suffered enormous damage. Therefore, on another issue, I would like to appeal now to the responsibility of the opposition groups, my fellow Members, because I think that if the banks have been cleared, then we should also go through with the accounting of brokers. After all, the financial corruption abuses that have lasted for the past decade, the broker scandals, I think there are two very important lessons to be learned, which clearly belongs to the Parliament. The first and most important lesson, ladies and gentlemen, is that we cannot allow those responsible to escape with their wealth. It follows that every step must be taken so that their assets can be seized. The Parliament must establish a law according to the Fidesz parliamentary group which will clarify the following issues. First of all, the assets of the entire group of companies affected by the brokerage scandal must be blocked. Secondly, Parliament needs to establish a law that makes it clear that those responsible for the broker scandals - the owners, managers, board members, supervisory board members and the related auditors - should also be responsible for their decisions with their private assets. Therefore, Parliament's law must ensure that these assets can be blocked and subsequently used to compensate the victims. Thirdly, Parliament must establish a law that also makes it clear and clear that any attempt to save assets during the process will not be allowed. It follows, therefore, that, ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, it must be a passage on the fact that, meanwhile, anyone who has tried to transfer part of his company or of his own property to someone else, has tried to hide them, those contracts must be considered null and void, and the possibility of being placed under a lock must be extended to them. Fourthly, honourable Members, Parliament must establish a law that makes it clear that this law applies mutatis mutandis to pending proceedings. Moreover, this law must be drawn up as a matter of urgency by the Parliament. Therefore, I would like to ask the opposition groups here and there to support the adoption of this law and the negotiation of this law in the House with a derogation from house rules next week. We will submit this bill to Parliament by late this afternoon. Tomorrow, as Chairman of the Economic Commission, I will initiate the Economic Commission's decision on inclusion in the series of subjects, i.e. to allow a quick discussion of the bill in Parliament. We will then initiate in the House Committee that Parliament's fractions decide that Parliament can negotiate this on 30 and 31 March, with extreme urgency, and can accept it by the last day of the month at the latest. This is also your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, because we can draft this bill, we can define the purpose and the instruments attached to it, but more than four-fifths of Parliament's support is necessary to enable Parliament to accept it in substance. And finally, honourable Members, let us also talk about the fact that I think there is another very important lesson. The lesson is that the domestic wolves of Wall Street cannot live off the Hungarian people's money. It follows that the legislation on the control of brokerage firms must be tightened very hard, for which we expect the Government to propose, and I ask the Hungarian Government to submit this bill as soon as possible, and we will also take the initiative that Parliament will discuss this with a derogation from house rules and with extreme urgency. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-18	Thank you, too. On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert is responding. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Parliament, The government fully agrees with the objectives of the bill you have presented. We're waiting for the bill. We're looking forward to the details. As you have said, I would like to inform this House that there is no constitutional barrier to the immediate entry into force of procedural laws, and that several decisions of the Constitutional Court have already decided on a similar issue. So, while material law rules are obviously non-retrospective, but the introduction of procedural rules, as I said, is not problematic, not unconstitutional. Dear Chief of Staff, In the next step, the government is, of course, a partner, and there is room not only for a law aimed at remedying the current issue in the short term, but also for tightening up long-term guarantees and long-term control rules. For this case has also shown that, as long as there is a minimum chance that the assets acquired from such a series of crimes can be taken out of the country or even hidden from the authorities, there is not enough risk of such consequences to deter financial service providers or persons involved in financial services from committing the crime. You would really think that once again after K&H's broker scandal, it would be impossible for customers to carry in a plastic bag practically the revenues from the ponzi scheme or rather the ponzi scheme by brokers or persons who are keeping it, but in this case it seems that the suspects have bypassed the various records and the various close accounts. In this case, however, the solution presented by the Head of the Group, namely closing, is still only a category of consideration at the moment, since the Criminal Procedure Act only knows the mandatory closing in one exceptional case. In the case of certain properties, the property may be subject to an obligation to close, but it is based on consideration of other assets. It is therefore very important that this House strengthens the law on criminal proceedings and requires that, in these cases, when this type of crime takes place, the lock should be subject to the assets. So after all this, I am asking this House, on behalf of the government, to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure and the relevant legislation as quickly as possible, so that even suspects of the so-called second brokerage scandal, potential perpetrators of this House, cannot escape their assets from civil liability. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. András Schiffer Group Leader has come forward on a case-by-case basis. Here you go. [[11.50]]
u2015-03-23-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that I would like to ask Mr President to ask the members of the Government to give a substantive answer to my fellow Member, Mr Zoltán Lukács, Mr Gábor Vona, and to the speech before my agenda. What happened was that Zoltán Lukács spoke before the three agendas on Sunday, Gábor Vona made excuses about the Quaestor case and the voluntary work of the betteries, and I formulated specific questions that were in the air three years ago in connection with the Malév case. After that, the resolution rule is 18. §2 of the Act states that the member of the Government may comment on what has been said, and Mr President has asked the members of the Government to respond in the scenario. What was done here by the members of the government was everything but a reflection on the comments made by opposition representatives. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] It's a shame, it's a disgrace, it's an emptying of the entire institution! That is why I ask Mr President to finally ask the members of the government for a meaningful answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP. Interpellings from the ranks of Fidesz: Interpellal!]] on the pre-op agenda for the opposition. Thank you.
u2015-03-23-22	Dear Chief of Staff, The House Committee, of course, has the right, as a member of the House Committee, to make this motion again. [[Interviews from Fidesz: What was the point of order?]] I meant your opinion, and I consider it primarily of a political nature, not of a point of order. At the same time, the House Committee is a forum for doing this. We'll get back to work. [[Interviews from Fidesz: What was the point of order? You have to answer an immediate question.]] Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda today [[It's constant noise.]] [[It's constant noise.]] [[It's constant noise.]] László György Lukács, Jobbik; Novák Előd, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; László Varju, independent; Mónika Bartos, Fidesz (Continuous noise.) ; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Teleki László, MSZP; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; Vágó Sebestyén, Jobbik; Ikotity István, LMP; Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP. (Continuous noise.) Honourable Members, I bet you couldn't recall the names of a single Member who came forward on a very important matter after the agenda. [[Defiance.]] And yet it is essential for the Parliament to know that. So focus on what's on the agenda. So now, at 11:52 p.m., we begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. First, the questions. Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - Why do you need to rename the Ságvári High School in Szeged when there is no clear legal authority for this? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since Minister isn't here, I'm guessing Secretary of State will answer. Dear Secretary of State, In the last few weeks, you know, there has been a fierce protest in Szeged about the Ministry's idea of renaming the Ságvár High School. Doctors, artists, celebrities, teachers and students have acted against the idea of the Ministry, as it is a 60-year-old institution, an institution that under that name has achieved excellent results and successes in Hungarian public education, and has developed a brand not only in the city but also in the country under the name of Ságvári. You, Mr Secretary of State, are referring to legal obligations and the position of the Academy of Sciences. The position of the Academy of Sciences does not forbid, but makes a recommendation that it does not recommend the name of Ságvári, but there are academics who say that this decision should be left to local communities. And the law, which is about the symbols of authoritarianism and the name of public spaces and public institutions, simply does not apply to the training schools of universities. Practitioners' gymnasiums are governed by the Law on Higher Education, which changed last year, which ultimately simply refers to the Minister's right to change their name, i.e. it is solely up to the Minister's intention and will to change the name of the institution. Dear Secretary of State, Forced to change such a name is nothing but a show of power that we experience every day here in Parliament - and the citizens on the street - by their insane legislation, which is nothing but power politics without social consultation. Once again, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why they want to change the name of Ságvár High School, for which they have no clear legal authority, and if they change it, when and how they do so. Thank you.
u2015-03-23-24	The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here.
u2015-03-23-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In Hungary, many institutions had the name of Endre Ságvári until the change of regime, some institutions even until the last years, but at the time of the change of regime, these names were removed from the name of streets and squares, whether they were removed from the entrance of schools or out of the entrances of colleges. There was also Nagykata or the III. in the district, the street with that name is now named Imre Sinkovits, even Komló was renamed the 21st. in the district, Pécs, Dömsöd, Szolnok, Martfű, District V, Balkány, Szarvas, Zsámbék, Tapolca, Mosonmagyaróvár, and for a long time I could name where they were named. In Balmazújváros Liszt Ferenc utca became the former Ságvári Endre Street, Szolnok Sándor István Street became the former Ságvári Street. In these areas, in these settlements, this has not caused such problems and problems, without any legal obligation, since even the legislation you referred to and I have repeatedly mentioned was not alive. In the same way, there is no Ságvár school in Kazincbarcika, if I look at the schools, there is now Kölcsey Ferenc High School in Zalaegerszeg, there is also a Hunyadi Mátyás Primary School in Oroszlány, it was renamed Tatabánya, and in Dunaújváros it was named György Dózsa Primary School in Győr, and I could list it, or in Tokaj there is a Tokaji Ferenc College in the place of the former Ságvár College. As for the training schools, there was also a Ságvári Endre Practitioner School in Budapest, which is now called the ELTE Trefort Ágoston Practitioner School, and it has become a very good name, and it was probably a good high school in the past, and it was a very good high school after the 1990s, and the change of name did not change anything about that community, that school, the results of the students coming from there. That is why I trust that we will succeed in the legality and recommendation of the MTA here, in this case as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-26	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office: "Where is the language strategy? It's an address. It's for the congresswoman.
u2015-03-23-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, On April 1, 2014, the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy was established, whose history could be considered as a bad joke, only from hundreds of millions it is not very humorous. In nearly a year, virtually nothing could be heard about the activities of the Institute. Since July last year, we have found 2 sources of the Institute's existence on the MTA website at all, because it does not have its own website, but there is no way to get to know their work in detail, not even for searching citizens. One of these life signs is an interview with Director Lóránt Bencze, who talked about six months after the establishment that the process of technical and organisational building of the Institute will soon be completed and consultations will begin. After a long investigation, I was able to find out that there was a conference that was co-organized by the Institute, but it cannot be entirely proud of that either. One of the performers of the Lendván event was István Lanstyák, who spoke about the absence of a mother tongue, who called it a kind of hallucination. He says that one does not speak native language, but draws on the material of different languages, so it makes no sense to talk about whether we use foreign language or not. He also described earlier that language cultivation is a matter of dilettants, not science, actually lingvicism, language discrimination, which is a hotbed of racism. Minister, why do you spread such amazing ideas in the organization of the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy? One of the points of the Government Decree on the establishment of an office is that MANYSI is involved in the development and coordination of the principles of support for Hungarian-language databases in the field of information technology, although it is questionable whether it is good to entrust this task to an organisation that has not been able to create a website in ten months. Minister, what kind of language strategy is this? Where's the language strategy, anyway? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-28	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-29	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for asking. First of all, I began by saying that I have known the work of the Institute for Linguistic Strategy so far without any shame or secrecy, which is why I asked Director General Lóránt Bencze, who is a respected representative of his profession as a linguist, to be at your disposal if he wishes to be informed. It was probably a mistake that the Institute for Linguistic Strategy did not invite Members, however few are unfortunately interested in the current state of the language and the aspects of scientific research; I asked the Director-General to do so. [[12.00]] I think it might be useful for you, hearing your question. First of all, I would like to reassure you that this is not a language police, it is not a language police office, but a research workshop, a research institute that is actually trying to follow in part the continuous change of language, primarily how we use language; for example, how the executive power uses language, how it affects it, or how the Hungarian language generally contributes to our everyday life; how much time and energy we spend on preserving it. Moreover, in the case of our people, our nation, the language is of particular importance, since it is one of the pillars and the main pledges of our survival. I don't think there's any discussion that this deserves attention. It is very difficult, I admit, to find a format that is legitimate in a professional sense, because Hungarian linguistics has a great tradition, but it is more operational than supporting research in itself or sponsoring a scientific workshop by the government. This science workshop has done a lot of work in recent years. It employs 12 people instead of 20 people, and it does not cost hundreds of millions of forints, because in the last year only 100 million forints have been used; all of these can be checked back. There is a high number of publications, which, I think, contributes to the work that we originally decided to do. We are also happy to see a congresswoman at the Institute for Language Strategy. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-30	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question, "Does the statutory exploitation remain in the labour code?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am now standing up for tens of thousands of security guards, receptionists and property guards, because these are the people who are typically employed in stand-by jobs between 200 and 300 hours a month or even more without receiving a supplement or, for example, providing them with a rest period. I believe that the government has already received the letter of formal notice from the European Commission, which makes it clear that the position of the Hungarian government as regards standing-by work is not acceptable at home. As a result of a complaint, the ECJ found that the regulation of stand-by work in its current form violates the EU Working Time Directive on several points. In particular, Article 6 of the Working Time Directive, which is quite clear, states that the maximum weekly working time, including overtime, should not exceed 48 hours. A derogation may be made if the worker agrees and it is also necessary to ensure that, if a worker refuses consent, he is given adequate protection. According to the ECJ, the latter condition is simply not met. What we now see in this scandalous work code is that Hungarian workers have to work in this country, that there are exceptional cases, such as stand-by jobs, that allow security guards, receptionists and property guards to be employed up to 72 hours a week instead of 48 hours a week. Here they allow you to serve 24 hours a day. Quite simply, Mr. Secretary, this is exploitation. In the services of 12-24 hours a day, people are practically worked to death, deprived of legal rest. Some of the working hours are practically free, slavelike, thanks to the fact that this law makes it possible. It's obvious that this job has to be terminated, that absolution doesn't help, it has to be quite simply eliminated. According to the LMP, Hungarian labour law simply cannot legitimise the exploitation of workers. The government has two months to respond to the EB. Dear Secretary of State, What will your answer be?
u2015-03-23-32	Mr Sándor Czomba will answer your question. Here.
u2015-03-23-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the Labour Code has now been in force for more than two years, and I can tell you that this code is much better than the old code. As far as the specific case is concerned, I would also like to draw attention to Article 22 of the Working Time Directive, which concerns mixed provisions, and the mixed provisions say, inter alia, that Member States have the possibility not to apply Article 6 unless the worker has previously agreed to such work, cannot put the worker at a disadvantage, must keep up-to-date records, must be made available to the competent authorities and should inform the competent authorities. The Hungarian Labour Code, the working law currently in force, contains the following: 99. Paragraph 1: Weekly working time is not more than 48 hours. Art. 92. The Parties may derogate from this by written agreement for a maximum period of 72 hours per week. So I would like to stress that an explicit written agreement is necessary, and the employee's consent is necessary for this act. And there is one important thing, the notice of termination, that when the employer resigns, he cannot rely on this legislation. This is 66. Paragraph 1 of the current Labour Code. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that the working law currently in force complies with the Working Time Directive in all respects. If, where appropriate, the question of whether it is worth considering this within the VKF, together with employers and employees, and say that security guards do not want two days off, but, indeed, in the way the legislation specifies that 11 hours of rest and compulsory rest, then it is worth putting it back on the table. I would just like to point out once again that, without the consent of the worker, there is no way to break any laws at the moment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-34	Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Gelencsér, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, How does the newly introduced relief system help those in need of Kaposvár? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, please.
u2015-03-23-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For years, we have heard from the opposition benches that the powers of the municipalities are being emptied, and that due to increased centralisation, the municipalities are slowly not at all self-determination. We have heard that nationalization is taking place in almost all areas of life, and that the government is boring and boring in people's lives. To mention only two of these: this is what they thought when schools became a state reserve, or when we created government offices and districts as an element of public administration reform. The time since then has shown that both measures are correct. As has been the case for the people of the settlements, the current reform of the social law is also for the benefit of the people. In addition, local authorities will be given greater powers to help those in need in a targeted way. From March this year, the modern social care system will become more fairer and more transparent. Compared to last year, the state aid framework will increase by HUF 3.3 billion to HUF 35 billion in total. In order to strengthen social security, from March to March they can ask for support from two places, the distribution of the income compensation framework may be decided by the local authorities, such as the addition of housing. Dear Secretary of State, When we make a law between these walls, we represent our constituents, we serve the common good. No one can forget this for a moment, regardless of whether he sits in pro-government or opposition benches. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: how will the new aid system help people in Kaposvár more successfully and targeted? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-36	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2015-03-23-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Kaposvár has also created his municipal decree, quite widely and colorfully, about the subsidies that he grants to those in need who live in Kaposvár, and the amendment of the social law came into force at national level from 1 March. The essence of this is that while the various forms of support have so far been mixed between the municipalities and the central budget, the state budget, the various grants - six that will soon be presented - automatically in certain situations - are now financed by the state up to 100%. These, as you said, are primarily income compensatory subsidies, while expenditure compensatory subsidies, which need to be more familiar with the individual's personal relations, require a greater degree of awareness of the need for them on the ground, the payment of these grants has become a municipal responsibility, while the central budget also provides coverage for them. They receive 100 per cent from the district, i.e. without the self-reliance of the municipality the supply of active-age people, the replacement allowance for employment, the health and child-care allowance, and also the benefit of the elderly, the basic, increased and special care fee. Here, I would add, we have introduced the special care fee as the highest amount in the last four years. The district also finances both subjective and normative public health care, and citizens can contact the district office for access to health care services in Kaposvár and elsewhere. [[12.10]] In order for municipalities to have funding for municipal subsidies, which can be provided for any other purpose, we have created a HUF 30 billion fund, from which, on the basis of tax power, the municipalities with the lowest tax power will receive the largest, and who have enough local business tax revenue, so the rich settlements will not benefit from it. Thus, the budget also provides funding for the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-38	Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. What was the reason and reason for his decision? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2015-03-23-39	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The Police Commissioner of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County was exonerated without justification, even though he was awarded a high honor on 15 March days ago, as you probably know; the National Civil Guard Association acknowledged his work, obviously not without the opinion of its superiors. At the same time, the evaluation of the work of the High Command, which was completed weeks ago, found a 98 percent result by ORFK. That's all we know, as well as what I said, without a reason. Dear Secretary of State, The local community gave an opinion before or after the assignment, as the county government considered the professional work of the future Chief Constable as a positive result, as well as the local attachment. Now the local community is curious; he wonders what happened, and if his curiosity is not satisfied, then there will be speculations, vengeful Fidesz congressman, who wants to remove his angry son from the headquarters and various other things. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame! Shame!]] Dear Secretary of State, This is not right, because without the justification of the, such a professional life course or history is certainly at least suspicious. So please calm us down if you can. I would ask you for a meaningful answer in this case, even because the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County people are curious about what really happened. And please, Mr. Secretary, don't answer that. There's a lady in your faction who's scheduled for this, and she's unbeatable. You shouldn't compete with him in this. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-40	State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2015-03-23-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county public opinion for the work of the police. We believe that the support of the police, the militia, the municipalities, civil society organisations, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county public opinion has also contributed to the good results that you have been talking about. Honourable Congressman, Today, the police carry out their duties under police law, free of party political influence, in the interests of the country. That is why I ask the Member not to use the police to achieve his political goals. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Answer me!]] Personal matters of the police, honourable Member, are not political matters today, as in many cases they were during your administration between 2002 and 2010. The decision to revoke the mandate of the police chief questioned by you is set out in XLIII of 1996 on the status of professional members of the armed forces. Law 75/B. Paragraph 3 of this Article took place on the basis of the first turn. This provides that a member of a professional staff may be released from his/her post without justification with immediate effect. The National Police Commissioner has offered the exonerated county commissioner a position at the National Police Headquarters. I would like to reassure the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county public opinion, the people who live there, that the Ministry of Interior and the police will continue to do everything in their power to improve the safety of the people living there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. - Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Why were you acquitted? Where's the answer?]]
u2015-03-23-42	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question:, First half: 1:0 for executives? Or what is the real background behind the recent resignation of the State Secretary for Executors' Review? It's an address. The congressman has the floor. Here.
u2015-03-23-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Gergely Patyi served as Secretary of State for Justice Relations of the Ministry of Justice as of June 2014 and then suddenly resigned from his post overnight on 4 March. Gergely Patyi referred to unfounded and unworthy attacks on his person, after one of the news portals reported that one of his acquaintances received the due diligence of the Executive Chamber's IT system for a HUF 5.6 million commission fee. If you follow the world of Hungarian politics, you may feel that the story is somehow not round, because in the case of real scandals, it is not a practice in Hungary to give up on the part of state or political leaders: the NAV president banned from the US is in place, whose office is subject to a thousand billion-dollar corruption charges; Fidesz Members of Parliament have declared their assets thanks to their official income; but we could also mention the distribution of EU billions to offshore companies. The common thing about these cases is that no personal responsibility has ever come up, no one has left his post. For the reasons explained, it is quite clear that Gergely Patyi certainly did not have to leave because of a HUF 5 million commission fee. If that were the case, the government would have resigned, and the parliamentary benches of Fidesz-KDNP would have been severely thinned. Please spare me the answer that Gergely Patyi made his own decision to resign, especially in view of the fact that László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, accepted the resignation of his State Secretary with record speed. According to unofficially confirmed news, the Executive Chamber assessed the departure of the State Secretary responsible for the executioner's due diligence as his own success, which is expected to result in the death of investigations which have just begun. Dear Secretary of State, Together with Hungarian society, I expect a direct and honest response to the background of the departure of the Secretary of State for recently resigned judicial relations, and how this will affect the accountability of executives so far not too spectacular. I look forward to your honored and meaningful response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-44	Thank you very much. Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2015-03-23-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would be happy to tell you what I have already told you in private, since you have already asked, of course, me or even the Minister, exactly why the Secretary of State had to leave. Honourable Congressman, I am sure that the joy you mentioned in your last sentences, which would have come from the Hungarian Chamber of Executives for this resignation, was a bit hasty from the Chamber of Executives, so I assure you that there will be no reason to rejoice in the leadership of the Executive Chamber. State Secretary Gergely Patyi's declaration of resignation literally reads as follows: "I have submitted my resignation today, on 4 March 2015, in the light of the unfounded and unworthy attacks on my person and the high importance of the changes to the Chamber of Executives of the Hungarian Court of Justice. My personal professional goals are to restore public confidence in the wider sense of justice. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Minister László Trócsányi did not accept the resignation, because he is not entitled to it under the law, so under the Act on the Status of State Secretarys and Members of the Government, he could only acknowledge this resignation, and a declaration of acceptance is not necessary for the validity of the resignation. I ask you, Congressman, to accept that a secretary of state resigned because he thought that the Ministry's purpose or the government's purpose was better served by stepping aside. The government's objective and its determined aim is to correct judicial execution, to carry out audits and due diligence at the Court Executive Chamber by the Ministry of Justice, and, in no less than a month's time, to stand before the Government or to the public with our findings and with our proposals. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-46	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Why is the government only offering aid to municipalities in trouble because of the Buda-Cash scandal? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The municipalities that led their accounts to one of the banks of the fallen DRB banking group were in a very difficult situation. It is well known that because of the Buda-Cash scandal, these municipalities had no access to their money overnight, and there is little hope that they will ever receive their wealth there. [[12.20]] As a result of the situation outside their own faults, they have a serious problem with the payment of the wages of municipal workers, but the payment of aid has also been put at risk. The municipalities concerned requested assistance from the government. Help, however, is more pronounced than real. The 67 municipalities in the most difficult situation received an emergency aid of HUF 244.71 million, but they could only spend it for pre-defined purposes, and they also have to pay it back in full by 30 June. This isn't really helping. The government already guaranteed only a fraction of the money lost, which was close to HUF 3 billion, and will also claim it back within a few months. It does so by completely bleeding out the municipalities in recent years, which are likely to be able to finance their core function only by imposing local taxes in most places. And such a bank failure put them in an unsolvable position on their own, even though the municipalities were in a situation without their own fault. In the broker scandal, alongside fraudulent companies, the government and the central bank are the real responsible ones, which have not been able to guarantee effective supervision with proper regulation and control. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why they are only giving aid to the governments in distress, and why they do not pay the full cost of it, so that they do not have to pay it back. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-23-48	Thank you, too. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds.
u2015-03-23-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to state that there is no law or legislation requiring Parliament or any other public body to grant aid to any organisation, municipality or other economic company or public authority in such a situation. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about Széchenyi Bank?]] However, as you have said, in agreement with you on certain issues and thoughts, the government is helping the authorities in difficulty, helping them to remain operational, just so that they can pay the wages, the aid and the subsidies. And that happened in February, by the way. If the government hadn't interfered, there would have been thousands of people left. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] without an allowance. It is true that in the first round it was the quick help that was important, namely that the February allowances could be paid, because 67 municipalities could not have paid for it. This aid is, of course, non-refundable aid, which was technically the way to resolve it, since they could not make an application yet - they had to make a decision so quickly - to grant the aid. The help of the municipalities has not been completed, and it has actually started now. But in order to help you, you need to know exactly how much money a municipality has left in the bank, how much money each institution has, and if there is a municipality that has invested money at Buda-Cash or Quaestor. This survey is ongoing, it will be completed in a short period of time on the basis of the information provided by the municipalities, and then a comprehensive submission to the government will be made, and it will be decided what additional support the government can provide. The government will not fail the affected municipalities, which are in a difficult situation. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: After words of action!]] Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "How can the number of prisons in Hungary be increased?" It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here.
u2015-03-23-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, we are talking about a very important issue of how the number of seats in prison institutions can increase, as today the Hungarian prison institutions are overcrowded, with an average of 161 percent of these institutions overcrowding. And there are also prominent places in the country, such as Baranya County, where the overcrowding reaches 200 percent, or there are areas such as Budapest, Venyige Street, where this number is also very high. Therefore, it is important to try to reduce this overcrowding in some form. This number is a relative number, by the way, because in Hungary, legislation determines how much space should be provided for an inmate. This is 3.5 square meters for a minor, 3.5 square meters for women and 3 square meters for men, where this is otherwise provided for in the KIM Regulation No 12/2010. § 2 (1) of the Act defines it. It is a very important issue that new institutions should be established in some form in the next period and that new institutions should be added to the implementation of prisons and thus the number of seats. It is therefore gratifying that there are municipalities such as Bátonyterenye or Balassagyarmat, which would like to join this programme, and there, in some form, let us say, by offering real estate, the municipality could also contribute to the construction of these institutions, the implementation of these institutions and the creation of new jobs. One important factor in this is the creation of new jobs, 200 seats for such an institution, 200 jobs, and 25 percent of the job of a person with a higher education degree. Accordingly, I would ask the Secretary of State to answer the question. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-52	Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond. Here.
u2015-03-23-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have good news for the honourable Member, because this morning we handed over the new section of the Martonvásári property of the Central Transdanubian National Institute of Corrections, which has expanded with 126 new seats, and a week ago the new district of the Budapest Penitentiary and Prison, the new district of the Collector, has been handed over, which ensures the accommodation of 36 people. In addition, the Szombathely National Institute of Corrections will be extended to 396 people this year and in 2015. In addition, a 108-place extension of the Solti object of the National Institute of Punishment of State Puszta is under preparation, the construction of which can begin in the second half of the year, and is expected to be completed at the end of 2015 or at the beginning of the year 16 or 16. Our plans include the construction of a new 500-seat penitentiary on the petal property of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Correctional Institute. The total cost of the investment is about HUF 4.5 billion. The construction can start as early as the second half of this year and is expected to be completed at the end of 2016 and at the beginning of 17 years. In Hungary, the overcrowding of prison institutions, the solution of which awaits us, has been a problem for several decades. As a result of the tightening up of criminal law, there are now more than 18,000 prisoners in the institutions. With the approval of the government, the Ministry of Interior and the National Command for Criminal Enforcement have developed a programme aimed at reducing prison congestion to 100 percent by 2019. I hope, Mr President, that I have given you a reassuring answer to your questions raised. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Árpád Velez, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What about the residents of the elderly home in Kissakő? It's an address. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. On 1 February, the state took over the home of the elderly in Kissakő as a maintenance home because it was likely that there was an irresponsible management in the Institute. I would like to mention that Fidesz's municipal candidate, now an external committee member, was the former head of the home-run foundation. Why did they only reveal problems about the home afterwards? Why have public authorities not noticed problems and problems at home before? Who's responsible for this? What investigations are being conducted to clarify the case? What specific changes are planned to prevent this from happening elsewhere? Thank you for your reply.
u2015-03-23-56	The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here.
u2015-03-23-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The most important thing I think is that people here are safe, that's what I'd like to explain to you in the first half of my answer. In order to ensure the safety of those in need of social assistance, all the necessary measures have been taken in this home. It is a statutory guarantee that, if a maintainer cannot continue to provide the necessary services to the beneficiaries, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection, as a state maintainer, will provide for the persons in need and without care. The Golden Hill Elderly Home was taken over by the state maintainer from the first day of February 2015, as you said, so the beneficiaries are now safe as a result of the state intervention. The care of the elderly is continuous, and the home is run by the Integrated Social Institution of Fejér County on the part of the state maintainer, which has become a new establishment of the Kissakő institution. The residents are constantly informed and informed about the changes, their calmness and care is a priority for us and for the Integrated Social Institution of Fejér County. [[12.30]] The State's maintenance intervention does not mean that the State itself would automatically take over the payment of the debts of the former maintenance foundation; there is a continuous supply of the beneficiaries. The management of the institution must be controlled by the maintainer, so it must also assume responsibility, in case of dispute over the debt to the rent and to certain service providers in the proceedings already opened, if this continues, it is likely that the court will decide. Several bodies are involved in the control of benefits providing personal care. The Social and Social Services Office shall verify annually whether the holder operates in accordance with the legislation, assigns the previously mentioned GYF, DG Social and Child Protection, as an expert on the implementation of the professional programme and the professional adequacy of services. The Hungarian State Treasury examines the legality of the use of state aid, and the elderly living in the home can turn to the recipient legal representative, who also hold a reception hour in social institutions, so there are several levels of protection in this case as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-58	Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: "Do you support the introduction of a basic Internet service for everyone? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, please.
u2015-03-23-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik's consistently represented programme point for years is the free provision of basic internet services for all. In this case, we have also started a nationwide signature collection operation aimed at further pressure on the government. We are well aware of the many benefits that the Internet could bring - only a few of them being taken out: it would help to expand telework, tele-management and electronic administration - but the third lowest share of broadband mobile Internet users in Hungary is in comparison with the EU countries. You are now trying to compensate the missed, past-looking plan of the Internet tax by setting a target for 2018 to have broadband internet everywhere, but we know that this can only be realistic where you can pay high international charges. The importance of broadband distribution was also mentioned by the newly elected president of Fidelitas a few days ago. Let us now look away from the malicious comments that call this behaviour "carpet spinning," saying that a few months ago, with the plan to introduce an Internet tax, they would have prevented the spread of this service. So let's ignore them, because it's probably just bad people, people who haven't been able to tell us that I'm trying to get their popularity back among young people. Rather, I think that you have finally understood the words of time or the arguments of Jobbik, and you have admitted that this would be a necessary step for our country's competitiveness. Dear Secretary of State, My question is, therefore, whether they support the introduction of a basic internet service available to all, which would be easy to implement from the revenue of advertising tax. What do you intend to do to achieve a significant price reduction in the broadband Internet subscription fee? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-60	Mr Kara Ákos, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here.
u2015-03-23-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, There is no Internet tax, there is an Internet consultation; Fidesz consistently represents a program and is committed to spreading broadband internet access. After long preparation, the government decided on broadband development goals already in February 2014, more than a year ago, and we have kept the deadlines set for this. Broadband development also affects one and a half million households. The Internet service available to everyone from advertising tax revenue cannot be guaranteed because of the amount, so your claim is incorrect. This could mean that Jobbik would achieve this goal by introducing a new tax or by introducing an increase in the tax burden. The spread of Internet usage is essential for Hungary's development. Indeed, in today's world, people who do not have adequate internet access can become less successful. Internet access helps you to find information every day, to contact family members, to work, to look for work or even to health care, and you are right, Congressman, about many other things that are important to Hungary in the future. There is no and no discussion between us, therefore, that we must constantly encourage and support the further spread of the Internet, the Internet use of Hungarian people. Therefore, the government will allow at least 30 megabit broadband internet access to all Hungarian households until 2018 and at the latest by 2020. Dear fellow Member, To this end, we have launched our complex development programme, in which we support and encourage Hungary's full broadband coverage with all available domestic and EU instruments and that all Hungarian people and all Hungarian families can connect to the World Wide Web at affordable prices. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why do we have to wait years for the real transformation of the land application system? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, please.
u2015-03-23-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my written question, I called attention to the growing number of angry farmers, who are rightly dissatisfied with the activities of the purse, and their dissatisfaction is due to the fact that a large number of people in the modified application system are in a situation where existing livestock does not have the right pasture, the right collection site, and obviously this application system does not meet their criteria in many respects. We have proposed earlier that this tender system be more transparent and that host organisations may participate in it, and that the parliamentary parties participate in it, so that we will explore and make this tender system more transparent and clearer. Our proposals were not accepted by the government. At the same time, it is obvious that before the press is made public, you can read about all kinds of animals that are starving, and you can continue to read about the fact that farmers who may not have pasture livestock are in a position and land estates, and this system is obviously bad for keeping rural jobs. I ask you with great respect, Mr Secretary of State, not to talk about what the system was like at the time of the MSZP, not about how many applicants there were and how many candidates there are in the system, but about how to stop the press from being constantly loud about the fact that state lands do not take into account all aspects and that people, together with their farming, are constantly in a situation that can make them impossible. When is it expected that this application system will be transformed? When will it be more transparent? When is the chance for proposals to be made with significantly greater transparency and more fairer professional choices? Obviously, the new calls for land applications for the next period are an opportunity to do so, and it would be good if these new editions were already divided by a new system, which would be better in many ways than the previous one. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to outline the possibilities for us to see if he sees a chance to transform the tendering system. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-64	The Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, will answer your question. Here.
u2015-03-23-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the autumn of 2014, the application system was modified, in many cases because of the criticisms it was worth, and a period has passed, on the basis of which it was worth redesigning or considering. I am sorry that this has escaped your attention, because it was quite a major transformation, if I think, say, to create an opportunity to fill the gap; if I think, let us say, that it is only possible to apply for an own-owned livestock; if I say, I think that it is only possible to apply for the livestock of the farming branch, so let us say, for a grazing livestock; or, let us say, the declarations that have been simplified or adapted to the new land traffic law. The farmer applying for an administrative area receives even more added points than he had previously received; the company or person who had changed their place of residence could no longer apply for the application; the young farmer applicants received even more added points than before; and he went through a number of bureaucratic simplifications. I think he's banging open doors, and these are exactly the terms of the tender you mentioned, we've modified it. With regard to transparency, I would like to point out that, at this moment, there is no judicial procedure that has not been resolved in a satisfactory manner with regard to transparency, and that there are no final judgments. We know exactly what it is that, after a lengthy consideration of the court, after a number of contradictory judgments, a final judgment has been reached, what is within the framework of transparency, and it is clear that it is public data and what is not. So there's no procedure in this anymore that's pending. [[12.40]] I would also like to thank you for your suggestion. About livestock mortality, only 40,000 sheep in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County and Hajdú-Bihar County do not have a total of what they are now threatening. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-66	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Do you have any doubts? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-67	Thank you very much for the floor. We have asked you a lot of questions on this matter, and we will continue to ask you about it until there is a meaningful answer or a reassuring decision. This case is the case of the KSE billing scandal in Kecskemét. The nearly 100% municipal-owned Kft. a contract for marketing and advertising purposes with three companies that did not have this activity in their portfolio. According to the four-party municipal inquiry committee, the three companies received HUF 298 million in public money over two years. In this case, the MSZP Centre of Democracy filed a complaint. The NAV launched an investigation on suspicion of tax evasion, forgery and misappropriation over three years ago. One of these companies is Glob-Ép Kft., founded by Zoltán N. under the name of a construction undertaking. This company gave marketing advice to KSE local government company for more than HUF 100 million, who has since gone bankrupt. Zoltán N. was the managing director of the company whose owner was convicted in February of the cereal fraud case at the Gyula Tribunal, as one of the first seven defendants, especially as accused of high value tax fraud, and as a criminal organisation, the court passed a judgment, and we read it in the press. The deputy mayor responsible for the management of the Kecskemét companies was called Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, who was the deputy mayor at the time of the contracts, when the marketing contracts were concluded. Today, he is the mayor of Kecskemét. Do you think it is okay that the local government-owned KSE Kft. is involved with dubious companies and persons? Marketing consultancy contracts worth hundreds of millions of forints, and the company goes bankrupt, and after three years, we don't know what's going on? Mr. Secretary, put your hands on your heart: if you listened to a story like this, wouldn't you have doubts? Because we have very, very much doubt. Answer me in substance, and we'll be waiting for a decision. We've been waiting three and a half years for the NAV to decide something. Thank you.
u2015-03-23-68	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question of the Member. Here.
u2015-03-23-69	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear Parliament, As I'm listening to you, I have to conclude that you are already so well-informed in this case that you could conduct an investigation. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Or maybe he's already made his own judgment. I apologise to the congresswoman, but neither the government nor the Ministry of National Economy can take this on, nor can it, nor can it so far. KSE Kft. The investigating authority is obviously also responsible for determining the identity of the persons responsible. I inform you that the criminal proceedings against KSE Kft. are ongoing on the basis of information received from the investigating body of the National Tax and Customs Office. Under the Law on Criminal Procedure, information on proceedings may only be given to those who can prove their legal interest in the conduct or outcome, but not in political proceedings, by the prosecutor's office or by a court. So if you have one, you can verify it and get information from the investigating authorities. On that basis, I must inform you that I am unable to provide any further information in view of the interests of the investigation. Please accept my answer now. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-70	Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Does it mean anything to the government to protect our natural values, or do they regard nature protection as an obstacle to be eliminated? It's an address. You have the floor, please.
u2015-03-23-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The preservation of the natural heritage of the Carpathian Basin is of strategic importance to us. For decades or centuries, regional development decisions are mostly not influenced by rationalities, but by momentary financial and political power. Natural habitats have been reduced to one third of the country's territory. Only 20 percent of the country's territory is protected by some kind of nature conservation protection, in a certain 20 percent area there is no protection of nature, at most it is subject to some kind of temporal and territorial restrictions in order to maintain biodiversity and preserve protected values. Meanwhile, the bodies of state nature conservation, environmental and nature protection authorities, as well as national park directorates are legally and financially impossible. Both the rules of citizenship and professional and legal law make national park directories on 24-hour duty, including the nature protection guard service. We have a county that has three or four nature conservation guards. They must carry out several crime scenes each day and respond to requests by the public and public authorities within a limited time limit, plus assess and maintain protected values. Dear Minister, Now that the forestry authorities, the land offices and the water department have lost another authority after the project, do you wish to strengthen national park directorates - as the most comprehensive regional knowledge and not least law enforcement authorities - to increase the number of nature reserve guards as well as their tasks? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-72	Minister Zsolt V. Németh will answer the question of the Member. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here.
u2015-03-23-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The statement made by the Member, that the preservation of the natural heritage of the Carpathian Basin is of strategic importance, forms part of our Fundamental Law and is not subject to discussion in the operation of the Government or the Ministry of Agriculture. In the period 2010-2014, the extent of our protected natural areas increased by 13 new areas, with 4800 hectares. Nature protection has not only appeared in the legislation, but also in real subsidies. We have spent an unprecedented amount of more than HUF 38 billion on domestic nature conservation over the past four years. As a result, the environmental status improved at 130,000 hectares and we also developed the land management infrastructure of the national park directorates. In the period 2014-2020, three operational programmes will serve directly the professional, nature conservation and ecotourism development of national park directorates, worth HUF 50 billion. Under the State Reform Programme, the environmental and nature protection authority is integrated into the Government Office and not the FM is losing a new authority. Our duties to the nature guard are undoubtedly large compared to the number of people. However, under KEOP, it is possible to improve the conditions for conservation protection. The fourth national nature conservation plan, which sets out a policy strategy for nature conservation, also includes an increase in the number of nature conservation guards. The current legislation also allows nature conservation guards to perform all the field conservation tasks of national park directorates with different characteristics, although it is undoubtedly under heavy strain. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-74	Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Can the government not even respect weakened workers' rights? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-23-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The position of the LMP is very clear: workers need decent wages, legal employment and safe jobs. None of these three have given in Hungary today. The government not only pushed down wages, but also weakened workers' rights and destroyed the institutional system to respect them. He recently reported alarming data from labour surveillance reduced to the Department of the Ministry of National Economy. In 2014, almost three-quarters of employers were found to be victims of infringements, which also affected almost three-quarters of the people employed. Nearly 20,000 - 20,000! - a work accident, 69 of which were fatal. This is exactly 30 percent higher than last year. In comparison, I would just like to say that the numbers were not good in 2010, too, but it was at least 57 percent, which is almost half, and we are now at least three quarters. When was the turning point? In 2012, obviously not by accident, when the national inspectorate ceased and the number of inspectors decreased by 40 percent. This, along with the new labour code, basically said to employers: feel free to forget about employees' rights. [[12.50]] There has been such a terrible situation in Hungary today that employers are almost more worthy of non-compliance and payment of a possible fine than legitimate employment, and this is precisely your fault. These employers are less and less likely to expect checks: compared to 2010, when 25 000 employers were checked by the Authority, only 18,000 in 2014, while the number of infringements increased year after year, fewer inspectors and fewer checks. According to the LMP, it is unacceptable that the majority of workers are working in this country and under what conditions, and Fidesz's responsibility is inevitable. Instead of further deleveraging the authorities, we demand that control capacities be finally increased and a national OSH strategy is developed, with the involvement of trade unions. Why does the government refuse to see this, Mr. Secretary of State?
u2015-03-23-76	Secretary of State Sándor Czomba responds.
u2015-03-23-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let us begin by saying that there is no mention of the government's failure to manage OSH in its proper place. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the past, he was the Deputy Director General of a background institution, and now he belongs directly to the Ministry of National Economy, so that he can also sense that, in terms of his specific gravity, the level of governance is practically higher. As regards the specific figures, allow me to list some data. The number of fatal work accidents should be followed on the basis of processed work accident reports. In 2013, there were 75 fatal work accidents and 78 fatal work accidents in 2014. Obviously, we do not dispute that this is just 78 more than it should be in Hungary, but if I compare it, there were 125 fatal accidents in 2005, 123 in 2006, 118 in 2007, which means it was constantly over 100. So his claim that the situation is deteriorating, especially in the case of fatal accidents, is simply not true. In addition, over the past four years, it has been working with 400 000 people, including in agriculture and construction, which, by the way, anticipates even more serious problems in terms of work accidents. Of course, we consider it important to increase efficiency in this area in the next period. I think that it is worth considering in the next period, not in terms of national governance, but in terms of division of labour at county level, because it is undoubtedly a fact that there are counties where the number of our colleagues working in the field of labour protection is relatively low in terms of number, but at the same time it is apparent from work accidents that, in terms of their specific weight, the proportion of construction and agriculture has increased over the past period. So we want to devote energy here, but I think it is important to appreciate the work of those behind these figures. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-23-78	Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What do you know about the missing panel applications from the Havana residence? It's an address. It's for the congresswoman. Here.
u2015-03-23-79	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: district Havana residence is a concept known almost throughout Budapest. Many years ago, Havana has never been so positive. By now, his negative view has been worn out in a significant part because before 2010 several panels were renovated and converted into a modern, homey house. This would not have been possible if there had not been a public tender system for the modernisation of panel houses. A few blocks of Havana are being renovated today. At the same time, most buildings are in poor condition. Obviously, you do not need to explain to you how low the energy efficiency of residential buildings built with industrialized technology for nearly 40 years, nor that this could be greatly helped by an existing application system. EU funds could also be used for this. For some reason, the Fidesz government does not support these investments, so the system, the buildings are still antiquated and wasteful. It is not a solution for you to limit by law the unit price of energy - as you call it - the reduction of the rent - because what you have decided today can be taken back from the population in the same way tomorrow, and besides, environmental degradation has not been reduced. We burn the future in the same way, we upset the Earth's ecosystem, and unfortunately, a temporary drop in prices doesn't help. However, energy saved by energy efficiency investment would still be saved tomorrow, both in homes and in humanity. Hungary's successful program was the modernisation of panel buildings. Before 2010, almost every third, over 500,000 panel apartments were affected by renovation in some way. The current government has shut down this program, left the people in the panel buildings to themselves, including the people of Havana - but what do we expect from those who previously pane-proposed the people in the panel? Dear Minister, That is why I am asking whether the government is planning to launch new energy efficiency proposals in large volumes, i.e. a panel project. What policy considerations and energy policy analyses are behind the decision [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Whatever that direction is? Finally, do you think that the suspension of panel programmes is compatible with Article XXI? The technological development of the century and the increase in energy efficiency? I would be honored by your reply and thank you.
u2015-03-23-80	And I'm asking everyone to take their time. Mr. Secretary of State thanks you for increasing your ambitions, but you're still Secretary of State. Secretary of State László Tasó responds. Here you go.
u2015-03-23-81	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, I will respond naturally on behalf of Dr. Miklós Seszták, and I meant that he addressed the question to him. There's no question that I have to answer it the way he would. Allow me to draw your attention first of all to a few facts, which, by the way, you believe is well-known and certainly well-known to you, but you may not have considered it at this point. The first is that the first Orbán government launched the support for the renovation of the deteriorated panel dwellings in 2001, and in 2010 we took over this program with a deficit of HUF 14 billion from the Socialist Government. Thanks to the efforts and efforts of the Fidesz-KDNP governments, the missing source was also secured by 13th. The program. Panel II., which was successfully completed all over the country, could be launched. It should not be forgotten that during the 2010-14 cycle, the government supported heating-up of district heating, typically panel apartments, with an additional HUF 5 billion in the framework of an eco-programme, in addition to HUF 37 billion. We also launched additional energy efficiency proposals by 2014, with a budget of well over 7 billion. Special attention has resulted in energy efficiency investments in the homes of more than 230 thousand families. A complex tender was announced on 23 February 2015 with a HUF 10 billion grant in the framework of the "Home Gay" programme. It will continue to be possible between 2014 and 20 to develop and support apartments in their energy efficiency in terms of renovations. What is important, however, is that in the next period, more than 240 billion forints will be provided for the purpose that we support, both you and obviously us. With regard to the cost reduction, I think you're not okay with your conscience because you're always hurt. But if you go to the Havana colony and talk to people again, believe me, they'll support you and they'll be happy that we dared to do that. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: But this is not a solution, you know it very well!]] Thank you very much for your kind question. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-23-82	Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. Did you know that a complete house is being stolen in Hungary? It's an address. Here.
u2015-03-23-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'll tell you a short story. Uncle Pista inherits the family house after his parents' death, but since he has his own, he makes serious plans for the house. Maybe he'll leave it for a weekend house where he grows grapes, gardens. Maybe he'll use his savings to fix them up, and he'll be proud to hand them over to his children to help them. While he's making plans, he's stunned by everyday burglaries. Family heirlooms need to be runnin' because they're looting', they're ruining' it. He'll tell the police who'll only encourage Uncle Pista to buy a dog. He buys a serious watchdog that bites his hand so hard that he's in the hospital for days. By the time he gets home, there's no window, no door to the house. He's so sad to see that he won't go out for a while. Then he receives a letter from the municipality to document his life-threatening house, to break it down professionally. Since he was a law-abiding man in his entire life, he'll do it. Then he sheds a tear and closes the door of the ex-parent house - if there were. Do you know who the character of the story is, Uncle Pista? In many, many jobs, he is a grey, old Hungarian man, whom you have failed. Dear Secretary of State, When are you planning to protect the many residential properties that stand empty waiting for their next owner by real action? Why has it developed in Hungary that serial burglars already known to public authorities continue to destroy our property and our environment by releasing them? They had in their hands the legal framework, which you abused badly. I look forward to the Secretary of State's substantive reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-23-84	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond. Here.
u2015-03-23-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman, Uncle Pista says he lives safer today than he did five years ago. [[There's a lot of noise from the opposition benches. István Apáti: Move in with him.]] Uncle Pista also says that he is pleased to see that he meets a policeman every day in his native village, since the presence of the police is common in his settlement. [[13.00]] Uncle Pista also says that he is pleased that the legislators in Parliament are making strict laws, thus helping to keep him safe. Uncle Pista also says that he regrets the fact that there is a group in Parliament that cries out for order, calls for order on the government, and then, when it comes to doing so, does not, in a Pharisee way, vote for these laws. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, Uncle Pista isn't happy with your work. [[There are constant interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] You're not satisfied with your attitude towards order. Uncle Pista also expects you to support these legislative proposals in order to establish order. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In the end, it turns out that there are no burglaries.]] Uncle Pista is also pleased that the police are launching a new operation, for example, the last time in order to prevent home invasions, in conjunction with the vigilante, conspiring with civil society organisations. These actions scare off burglars. Uncle Pista is not pleased that sometimes these housebreakers, whom you have designated in your question, may come out with slight penalties, but, honourable Member, you know that judgments are not made by the government. We make the laws, we make the laws, the judgments are a matter for the court. Honourable Congressman, Uncle Pista would be pleased if Parliament would continue to make strong, strict laws in the future. He would like us to further strengthen his numbers, his technical facilities, his other operating conditions, the police, and thus contribute to his safety. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-23-86	Thank you very much for your answer and thank you for your cooperation so far. The presidency will be handed over to President James. Goodbye. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-03-23-87	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity will speak. The representative of the LMP wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. What areas of higher education do you plan to monopolise training? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-03-23-88	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the summary debate on the proposal amending certain higher education laws on 16 March a week ago, State Secretary L. Simon László spoke out. The Secretary of State has admitted that the government's aim is to monopolise certain areas of higher education and make their education exclusive in certain institutions. In the near future, this will be the fate of diplomatic, foreign affairs majors. It has been reported earlier that the National University of Public Service will be the base institution for these trainings, which has now been admitted by the representative of the government. At present, students can conduct international studies or study international relations in several places. These are very high-quality trainings, and they have only high points in the first place. But these can easily be eliminated by the withdrawal of funding and public seats if the aim is to shift applicants to the National University of Public Service - and it seems from the Secretary of State's response. The LMP disagrees with the monopolisation of diplomatic disciplines. Experience from earlier periods has shown that exclusiveisation always results in the strengthening of some ideological element. Monopolisation does not serve to improve quality either. L. Simon László is wrong about bringing up a monopoly on forest or veterinary training as a defence. In these departments, the relationship between supply and demand has led to the ability to learn in one place and not to monopolise them through government intervention. Dear Secretary of State, Now that the government is finally honest and has confessed to its intention to monopolise, which it has not done before, please also tell us exactly what other areas of higher education are planned to reduce supply, to monopolise training or to make the National University of Public Service exclusive. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-03-23-89	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-23-90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, Mr President, you are well aware of the strategy for higher education, which aims to bring about a change of degrees in higher education in Hungary until 2020. He has repeatedly expressed his views in his debate, so you know very well that the government is not planning any measure, monopolisation, as you have said, of any kind. I suggest that you also pay attention to the statements of another László, László Palkovics, honourable Member, because you can see that there has been a training structure here since 2005, when there was a transition to Bologna training, ten years have passed, and a review of the courses is taking place together with one of the Committees of the Hungarian Rectors Conference. But that doesn't mean any decision, no direction. It simply means that this expert and professional body will look at the training that has actually been completed in ten years as it was planned, which is of sufficient quality, which is not of sufficient quality, and will make any kind of proposal in relation to this. Neither in the strategy nor in the mandate of this professional Gremium, there is nothing that sets out any form of monopoly, just the situation, the discovery of the facts. Then, once they have done their job, we can look at how high-quality higher education can be done, how to change degrees in Hungarian higher education due to the title of the strategy; how to train young people so that the education they acquire at the university can help them to get into the labour market on the one hand, and how to solve the other problem, which is that 30 percent of those enrolled in the university will eventually not have a degree. So, briefly and succinctly, there is nothing you've said but a review of the majors. This, we hope, will have results soon, and then we will be able to look calmly at the changes that are needed for quality higher education. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-91	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the Esztergom-Budapest railway finally be built? It's an address. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2015-03-23-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The press has long wondered when the Esztergom-Budapest railway line will finally be built. Several dates are running; now the new date is May 2015 for the first phase or the final end of 2016. I cannot see clearly on this issue myself, which is why I have addressed the question to Minister, Secretary of State, to answer when the railway line will finally be ready. I would like to note that the completion of the railway line could contribute to the development of the III. The Aquincum Museum and the town-town amphitheatre, as well as last year's 100-year-old Gas Factory housing estate and Swamps vineyard, have dozens of protected species, bird and plant species. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to ask you when the railway line III is expected. construction of its districts and transfer of the entire track section. When will the railway station in Óbuda and the overpass next to it be built? What is the reason for the delay so far? At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the initiative of one of the most important museums in the Óbuda area, the Aquincum Museum, so that the government can support the fact that the Budapest-Esztergom railway line is now being built III. information boards at the district stations of the district are presented in Annex III. The historical, artistic and natural values of the district. Is there any obstacle to this, can you support this in your investment? Thank you for your reply.
u2015-03-23-93	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State László Tasó. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-23-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The procurement procedures for the construction of the Northern Railway Bridge-Esztergom section started in 2011 and all contracts were signed a year later. The construction between Esztergom and Pilisvörösvár has been completed, as you know, in December 13 of the train traffic started. The North Railway Bridge-Pilisvörösvár section is currently under construction and safety systems are being developed. The delay was also caused by a significant delay in land grabbing and expropriation procedures, the spring winter weather in 2013, the Danube flood in June and the very rainy summer in 2014. The railway body was completed in December 2014 and the road passes to the platforms, P+R parking lots and connecting roads are under construction. Thanks to the development, the intersection between the railway and the road will end in several places. Rail traffic can start in the summer after successful safety investigations, so we really plan this year. There is no obstacle to the installation of the information boards recommended by you, the placement may be initiated with the request submitted to MÁV Zrt., which operates the stations. However, the cost of posting non-traffic information boards is not part of the station development programme. [[13.10]] In the case of investments financed by European Union funds, the regulation does not allow us to account for these costs. These information boards, although very important, are not related to railway operations, so their placement and operation cannot be covered by MÁV Zrt. or the resources of the MÁV-Start. The costs may be borne by the competent municipality or the institution, as is the case on the roads. I would like to point out with respect that there are a lot of improvements in progress and will be launched, so when you consider our performance, you should also take these facts into account. By the way, we respectfully ask the patience of the travelling public to keep our course. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the motorway M49 be built? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2015-03-23-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Traffic on Highway 49 makes life difficult for people living in the Satmar region every day. A significant number of vehicles pass through this section of the road, especially the Csenger-Győrtelek section, as well as the entire territory of Kochord and Mátészalka. In August 2006, the municipality of Kocsord carried out its first survey, which revealed that 10 324 vehicles passed through the settlement in 24 hours. This figure has increased significantly by 2011 as there is an increase of between 20 and 40 per cent per type of motor vehicle, but on average, compared to 2006 conditions. In addition, the situation deteriorated further compared to 2011, as in January 2013 the M3 motorway was handed over to the village guard. From this point on, more vehicles are passing through this section of the road. Kochord and Mátészalka are in a critical situation, since both the Csengersima and the traffic from Tiszabecs pass through these settlements. The main road is extremely narrow, strongly depressed, dangerous, many fatal accidents also occur, especially in the village of Győrtelek. In summer, for example, there was an accident that took the lives of five people in this settlement. In addition, the wall of the properties along the main road has been cracked, their traffic value has decreased, and the owners are waiting for compensation or compensation. Many government promises have been made in the previous cycle regarding the construction of the road. At the very least, the execution to the Oxy Ears would be the minimum, but the real thing would be if we could take the road one step to the Csenger or Csengersima, to the border. The first phase was promised between 2014 and 2017, but the latest news is that it will only start in 2020. In order to clarify the situation, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when the implementation will begin, when it can be completed, whether it is intended to be staged, and, if so, what sectionalisation it is intended to be. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-97	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2015-03-23-98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm trying to give you a meaningful answer, since you're a good friend of that area, you know that there are two sections in two different state of technical preparation. For this reason, there is a better prepared section between highway M3, highway 491, and there is another section between highway 491 and national border. This is obviously scheduled in two steps. It must be added that the implementation of the M49 motorway has also been taken into account in the period 2014-2020. As you know, our primary goal is to build motorways up to the border, and the second is to connect county towns and county seats to the motorway network. It is true, it is a very dangerous area, and it is very much in need of renovation and complete construction, which you mentioned earlier, but in recent years we have managed to reach the road. As you well know, in 2014 there was a 10 km long intervention between the interior section of Kocsord, in the area of Mátészalka and Ököritópülpös and Porcsalma, which was done in the framework of our large-surface hull repair program. So we've tried and we want to deal with this. As you may have heard, there will be a 50 billion HUF renovation programme for roads 1, 2, 3, and there will be a lot of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county sections in this area, with a 5 billion-dollar amount of resources that Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will be able to manage in the next period by the end of the year. In this, as I said, there are roads 1, 2, 3, and there is the possibility of refurbishing roads 4 and 5. So when you appreciate our work, note that we have to intervene in a lot of places. Otherwise, we will try to intervene everywhere according to the government programme and build everywhere what we have promised and is rightly expected of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-99	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question with the title "Request per hectare for 10 forints." Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2015-03-23-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During a privatization contract of 92 in Somogy County, which we believe is equivalent to treason, Hubertus Bt, which splits 8 000 hectares. The National Land Fund Manager filed a lawsuit against him two years ago. For comparison, this area is much larger than the third smallest state in Europe, but internationally recognised San Marino. Yet, in the troubled first years of the regime change, we managed to play into the hands of a German company. The absurdity of the treaty with the State Property Agency reflects the colonial and collaborating complor mentality that we most definitely say no to. The vast area, including a two-hundred-man-house, was rented for 99 years with a case and drawer, for only 10 forints per hectare. The company employs only 95 people, which is one tenth of the number before the change of regime, and they managed to collect almost EUR 1 million per year. The foreign user does not feel unfair about the contract, saying that he also took on the costs of water management, so the whole transaction is actually useful to the Hungarian State. Others, however, believe that they wanted to send a very influential German family to a private hunting area in the green heart of Pannonia, Somogyország. It may not be surprising that an Austrian arbitration in Vienna decided in favour of the Germans in the case of 7750 hectares. According to them, the contract meets the requirements of proportionality and does not conflict with good morals. Obviously, they would feel differently if we rented Austria for 10 forints per hectare. But now the Kaposvár Tribunal has also decided to reject the action of the NFSZ, and it has also charged the organization with the cost of the trial of HUF 18 million, thus ultimately to the Hungarian taxpayers. I ask Mr. Secretary of State whether the fate of the Nagyberek will remain a Meranian hunting ring. Do you still see that it would not have been wise to accept Jobbik's bill on plant regulation? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, who will answer the question of his representatives.
u2015-03-23-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, plant regulation is not a good solution to this issue. This is about an earlier contract, isn't it? He used the concept of treason. After reviewing the contract, I thought about it, too, and I agree with you, 8 thousand hectares for 10 forints for 99 plus 30 years, you did not mention this, indeed, the category of treason. He also did not mention it, and I do not want to multiply trouble, just to make it clear: he got this area together with hunting, fishing, water management and mining rights. As soon as we got our hands on the contract, the pallet, the yard, when we took over the land register, we immediately initiated proceedings. I don't want to reassure you, because I can't tell you what the lawsuits are going to end in advance, but the Viennese arbitration has decided on one thing in the first instance, which is negative for us. However, there has been an appeal since then, and in our view, the Austrian legislation has not been properly interpreted. But the court is always right, so we appealed to that question. The same is true of the Hungarian procedure. It's a two-way street. One is attacking nothing and the other is basically attacking the terms of the contract. We are not talking about a final judgment here either, but I would like to stress that, with very Sisyfusian work, we were able to draw up this treaty at the time. The Viennese arbitration is no coincidence. It is quite nonsense that we are talking about this in a Hungarian area. By the way, we have already won the lawsuit that stated that a court in Hungary has jurisdiction to decide on this issue. So at least from the foreign decision, we brought this decision back to Hungary. But I just wanted to tell you one thing about the area payment. Indeed, this has been the case until now, but now it can't, now it can't take up this area payment, because of the government's decision not to support large farms, but to support family farmers, there is no area payment above 1200 hectares. So at least now you can't even take this money. We're trying to squeeze him. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-103	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.20]]
u2015-03-23-104	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Healthcare has been a stepchild of the governments since the change of regime. The continuing decline in budgetary resources and the unthinkable formations are a good sign of this. Over the past few weeks, another skeleton has fallen out of the closet, as one of the online news portals very well put it: the National Blood Supply Service is fattening companies in our blood. The National Blood Supply Service is the central budgetary body under the authority of the Minister for Health at all times, which sells blood products from blood donations to hospitals and health institutions at a statutory fee. Kehi found during the verification of the management of OVSZ that, at the request of former Minister of Health of Lajos Molnár, Kedrion S.p. A.'s company, Human BioPlazma Kft. and its predecessor. The amount paid did not cover the cost of production, moreover, the pharmaceutical company had access to plasma at a more favourable price than the hospitals themselves. OVSZ lost revenues of HUF 10.5 billion between 2008 and 2012, i.e. during the former Orbán government, Human BioPlazma Kft. and by selling these medicines in Hungary, it has gained significant revenue. Also during this period, the services obtained the necessary tests for the production of blood products from Diagon Diagnostics Ltd. for HUF 5.4 billion in public procurement procedures, but the same company won another HUF 2.1 billion without conducting public procurement procedures. The Labour Court imposed a fine of HUF 24 million in a non-final judgment. Do you think, Mr. Secretary, that the fine of HUF 24 million is proportionate in the case of HUF 2.1 billion? How regularly does Kehi examine the management of budgetary bodies? What steps would you like to take to ensure that such cases do not occur in the future? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-105	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will answer the question of his representatives.
u2015-03-23-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have pointed out, the management of blood resources is a very diverse task, and it requires a system of institutions; it is strategic, I might say. This work includes recruitment of donors, blood collection, testing, processing, breakdown into components, continuous and safe provision of blood products to institutions. The law requires that national self-sufficiency of blood and blood products should be sought to ensure the safe use of blood products. The most important thing in organizing the activity is the interests of Hungarian patients, who should receive medicines produced from blood products because of their chronic illness. Based on scientific evidence in the care of haemophiliac patients, it is recommended to administer preparations of domestic origin and to ensure that these domestic products are at the disposal of patients at all times. Due to the strategic and social importance of ensuring blood supply, special attention has been paid to the findings of the Governmental Audit Office's audit on this subject. Taking these into account, following a detailed examination of the findings, a plan of measures was drawn up, which included a schedule of tasks, and alternatives to address the problems identified by Kehi. The aim is to fill the gaps identified, to ensure the operating framework for blood supply in a way that leads to the most optimal situation, especially for patients in need, as well as for those providing the supply of blood and blood products and for the state. The legislative environment governing the operating framework for blood supply is being simplified, leading to a more transparent, clearer set of conditions and responsibilities. In order to achieve this, the National Blood Supply Service will carry out the sale of fresh frozen plasma in the future under a competitive procedure, thereby eliminating the maladministration to which the Member has referred. On 1 March 2015, the State Health Care Centre shall exercise each maintenance rights over the OVS. I am sure that the action plan adopted by the Kehi investigation will prevent these abuses in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-107	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 1:24 p.m., and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. This is the tenth hole? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-03-23-108	Thank you, Mr. President. Although it would be very enjoyable to discuss this issue with Minister Lazarus, I would like to ask the Prime Minister for his personal answer. Thank you.
u2015-03-23-109	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-03-23-110	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-111	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who steered between 2010 and 2014? It's an address. [[Intercoms: He's not here! Who's gonna take the money at this hour?]] Dear Parliament, The president did not look at the meeting room, confident that the Members who wanted to speak were present, so I will follow you. Dear Parliament, Árpád Velez, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Enchanted Castle? What's your wallet idea of the future of the hospital in Csákvár? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2015-03-23-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like the Minister's answer in person. Thank you.
u2015-03-23-113	The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why is the mayor of Vác threatening teachers? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-03-23-114	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2015-03-23-115	Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2015-03-23-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As you know, KLIK then asked 300 public education institutions to send students and educators to the central state festival. According to press reports, a large majority of the institutions, more than 250 institutions, have given a negative response to this request, one of which, Madách Imre High School in Vác, has openly rejected this request, wrote: the teachers of our faculty do not support or organise students' participation in political events, it is considered unacceptable for students to make it mandatory for students, and they consider the request to forward the data of potential participants or students to the organisers to be contrary to data protection laws. They also informed the public that, as always, they will commemorate the national holiday this year. The reputation of rejection exploded as a bomb, first threatened the school's students on behalf of Fidesz-related, pseudo-civil organizations, later it was revealed that the nominated signatories either did not exist or that their signatories did not issue this communication. However, the mayor of Vác did not seem to have been informed of this in time, so he had the high school principal and his deputy brought into his office with a significant party loyalty, and he called them to account for the patriotic upbringing - I quote - he tried to extract from them who had written the open letter and then told them that he would never set foot in the high school again. Obviously, the mayor didn't know that this provocation wasn't made by fake fidesz civilians, and his zeal was linked to that. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State the following questions. KLIK claims that there was no obligation to attend the ceremony, but, in other words, the principal of the district declared the appearance mandatory on 5 March. What's the truth? Does the education government plan to protect the leaders of public education institutions from being put under political pressure by mayors? Have the students and principal of the institution been protected? How is it possible for a city mayor to threaten a principal, an educator, beyond his authority? [[13.30]] Is there an investigation? Do you know exactly who they were who threatened the students and teachers of the school in the name of the undercover civilians? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-03-23-117	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-23-118	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I hold in my hand the letter which, contrary to what you have said here, does not contain any kind of obligation to anyone. It says that KLIK was once again given the opportunity for students to attend historical commemorations. I think it is a right thing, and it is even necessary to remember in every place the 15th of March, one of the most important dates of Hungarian history, the date of the outbreak of the civil revolution, either locally or nationally. And this quote, which I have read to you, contains two important things. I think one is that this is an opportunity: do not participate, but participate, so the letter says. They are not obliged to go, but are given an opportunity, and this letter also describes how many people can come by bus, receive care, or from which institution if they want to use it. He also explained that the series of commemorations on 15 March was clearly public and that the deadline for replying on 5 March had to be returned by 10 a.m. on Thursday; so the request did not start as you said, Congressman, but was the deadline for feedback for planning. Anyone who wanted to go with the costs of this was largely borne by the National Event Planning Office itself, could have gone this way. Anyone who didn't want to leave didn't leave. I think it's a good opportunity: if someone wants to leave even further schools on 15 March and want to attend state celebrations, they should. There have been students on flag show before, on other occasions, when we start our national holidays here in Kossuth Square and continue in the Museum Garden or elsewhere. I think it's good that this opportunity is offered, but, as this letter shows, it's not mandatory for anyone. This is an opportunity to bear the costs of the Event Planning Office. I trust that there will always be people who want to take advantage of this opportunity, teachers and students would like to celebrate together on 15 March even in the Museum Garden. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-120	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, the KLIK letter speaks of an opportunity, and it is incomprehensible why the meeting will take place on 5 March at the initiative of the school district directors among the principals of the district, in which it confirmed that the participation is not recommended but compulsory. The other part of this story is that, indeed, in the event that it is so recommended, it is particularly outrageous what the mayor of Vác is allowed to do. In particular, it is outrageous that the mayor of Vác is threatening the school's principal and deputy director after absenting from a recommended event. I will continue to ask the Secretary of State: how can a mayor threaten an institution manager? Does the government protect the leaders, employees, teachers and students of institutions who study and teach in public schools? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-03-23-121	Thank you, Congressman. You have the right to a rejoinder, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-122	Honourable Congressman, We got ahead of the situation four minutes ago, because you admitted that there was no obligation for anyone to participate in them. This is about bearing the costs and offering the opportunity. I can start from what's in the letters. There are rumors about who said what to whom, whether among district leaders or in mayor's offices. It can be seen that, for some reason, in an incomprehensible way and in comparison to the national holiday, there was obviously an even more incomprehensible debate that was unworthy of the 15th of March, unworthy of what the young men of March did here in Hungary in 1848. I hope that as many people as possible will always attend these celebrations in the coming years, decades. Obviously, everyone's heart has the right to decide whether or not to participate. Obviously, this applies equally to a school principal, a school principal, a teacher, or a student, and their parents. This kind of opportunity, this kind of right will always be guaranteed by the Hungarian State, the Hungarian Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-123	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Who provides the safety net for the most fallen? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2015-03-23-124	Mr President, Dear House, Last year, proceedings were initiated against the Eastern Hungarian Service Centre, as a result of which the Hungarian Treasury stopped the payment of the normative service to the organization, which is also involved in the care of the otherwise fallen. We must say that it is not our place to take a stand in such matters, for if someone is proven guilty in the course of unraveling economic ties, then it should be punished, it is the most natural thing in the world. At the same time, however, it must be unacceptable for about 600 workers and at least 6,000 groomed workers to be at risk of their daily safety, safety of work, and, in the case of grooms, their very lives to be put at risk as a result of the fact that workers have not been paid in months due to the cessation of the norm in such a case, and in the case of groomed workers, there may be a risk that if workers leave their jobs in bulk, what kind of transition can ensure continuity. It can therefore be said, while there is a great deal of foreign exchange credit damage among not only the groomed, but also among the workers, so more weight is on the shoulders of these people, here, tired of the first gate of Parliament, Secretary of State or any member of the Government can give them a great deal of affection about how to find a solution. After all, we understand that, where appropriate, anything can be suspended in connection with the operation of an institution. But, once again, it is unacceptable for hundreds of workers and thousands of beneficiaries to get into trouble and put their care at risk. As a solution, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection as a central institution maintainer could take over workers and provide basic care in addition to specialised services. This would be a civilized solution that would ensure continuity and that we should also talk about what is the point of our question is how honest people who have not been paid out for months from where, yet how, they will get the benefit they deserve. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-125	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-23-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The basic situation, which Mr. President referred to, was aimed at the fact that someone here carried out such dishonest practices as the money that the Treasury had made to help people in difficulty and in need of taxpayers' money, this money was not used properly, not properly, not to those who, in many cases, may not have had other support, not to those who were in need, but rather to the extent that this money was simply disposed of in a way that the authorities had not really found it, and that the criminal proceedings were now under way, the end of which we obviously could not see, but because of reasonable suspicion, the investigation started here. So here there is an extremely dishonest, perhaps few more repulsive crimes than when someone takes money from hundreds of vulnerable people and uses it for a completely different purpose. This is a crisis in which the government obviously had to act quickly, and the social authorities must act quickly there. The vast majority of those with whom you have targeted receive domestic assistance, and the rest of them are obviously provided with an institution. In any case, it is a large, relatively larger institutional network. At the same time, they must provide these people with the various social benefits required by the municipalities as a task. Therefore, from the moment these non-State institutions have ceased to provide these social services, the compulsory tasks of the municipalities will be entered, so they cannot remain without the care provided, because then they will either turn to the SZGYF or most of them to the municipality, and they will have to receive these benefits there. Obviously, in order to provide this capacity, the municipality needs a workforce, which can be recruited primarily from the people who have done this work before. That is why there was a need for immediate action and for no one of these 6,000 people to be left unattended, as you mentioned. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2015-03-23-128	Mr President, Dear House, Sebestyén Csító, my fellow Member in charge of social affairs, was the first to turn to you on a written question. Basically, we got the same answer now, so we couldn't get any further in weeks. And in a number of ways, what the Secretary of State said is limping, because we have not talked about workers who have not been paid in months. The fact that, after a one - year procedure, they will be taken over or not, does not give their children a reassuring answer at the moment. [[13.40]] It should also be seen that a municipal takeover in the case of grooms, and partly on a voluntary and applicant basis, can cause a break in nursing situations that may even cost people lives. The family members of those affected know this very well. What we need to see is that a crackling-crackling system is being kept alive by people who don't get their rightful salary, and who have very serious problems with it. We have therefore brought a petition from them, supported by hundreds of signatures, which my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, will give you. But even if you don't agree with those who are out here protesting, in the spirit of manhood, the minimum [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It would be that you or one of you go out and look them in the eye. [[The president's ringing again.]] talk to them and learn about the real problems of Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-130	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, Obviously, I would also have told you of the up-to-date results, honourable Member, if you had not written in general in your title in your speech who provided the safety net to the most fallen. Anyone who realizes that you're thinking specifically about the staff of an institution should be a pretty good mind reader. If you had specifically described what you wanted to ask me about, I would obviously have given you more up-to-date information. However, I repeat that the most important thing for us is that all recipients of care there so far continue to receive benefits from the municipality and from other providers. This is clearly covered by its legal environment and is guaranteed to everyone. We will also strive to do so. This is where we help local authorities, and in which DG Social and Child Protection is involved in these counties. So we trust that this doesn't mean anything to anyone. What is truly outrageous to everyone is that some people have risked the existence of so many people in order to achieve their own private benefit. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] their livelihoods; and against them, we trust that if the suspicion is confirmed, the criminal authorities will act in the strictest way. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-131	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who steered between 2010-14? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-03-23-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not accept it, because the most authentic person is the Prime Minister, who is most aware of this, so I would like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-133	Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the person responding, the Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: å Why is the government winning in the misery of others? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally.
u2015-03-23-134	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-03-23-135	Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-03-23-136	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last Tuesday, Minister Varga said about the brokerage scandal that sovereign debt is the safest form of investment and that in order to buy sovereign debt, you do not have to open an account at a brokerage company. This could seem to be an innocent statement under different circumstances, but at the same time, in the current situation, when any opposition criticism to financial supervision is rejected by not rocking confidence in the financial system, it is not just strange, but extremely repulsive. He says that the entire financial sector is unreliable, and anyone who fears for his savings should leave it to the Father of the State, or else he may lose it. That is, the representative of the state will self-destruct trust. It causes panic, it destroys faith in the stability of the financial system. This is an extremely irresponsible attitude for a member of the government. It's a cynical message, and it's particularly outrageous from the point of view of those who trust the state's supervision, the fact that the PSPA and the MNB are doing their job, and they won't allow a series of frauds to take place for up to 15 years. Mr State Secretary, in his quoted statement, the Minister admitted that the MNB entrusted with the supervision of the financial system was unable to fulfil its task. He feels that there is no other solution but to acknowledge the system's unreliableness - and a bit of profit if that is the case. We believe there is another solution: not Fidesz soldiers, but competent experts should be entrusted with the supervision of the financial sector.
u2015-03-23-137	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-23-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, This statement by the Minister of National Economy, Mihály Varga, that the government bond is one of the safest securities, does not mean what your party has established. It just means that the State is present on the securities market and the State can provide people with a safe investment. That's all it means. And you, as a Member of Parliament, should also have an interest in financing public debt from within and not serving ourselves to foreign, cross-border, distant investors, Hungarians or non-Hungarians. Government debt must be financed as much as possible from the domestic market. That statement meant nothing else. Otherwise, the issuance of government bond paper is quite successful, since there are more than HUF 2200 billion already owned by Hungarian people and legal persons, which thus finances the lack of state finance and lack of budget. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] I think that this statement just confirmed the Hungarian people that if they want to make a sure decision, they want to make a responsible decision regarding the use of their free money (Dr. András Schiffer intervenes). One of the best ways to do this is to leave it to the State, by purchasing government bond securities, to provide themselves with investment on the one hand and security on the other. I'm asking you and your party to stop imagining things and thinking about things that aren't real. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where can you buy a settlement policy?]]
u2015-03-23-139	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Congressman Schiffer, allow your fellow Member to respond to Mr Secretary of State's response. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2015-03-23-140	Thank you very much. The government's attempt to finance sovereign debt from the domestic economy to a greater extent and not from abroad is understandable, but the instrument used is unacceptable. Secretary of State, not only did individuals fail in the brokerage scandal, but entire settlements. Fót can run after 1 billion forints, Hungária Zrt. from Alsónémedi in Pest county. He stole 15 years' savings, everything I could pay for the upgrades. This is what they write. The house of culture can't last another winter, it would be necessary to do the heating-modernization. The church tower has been declared life-threatening, and a major windstorm can bring it down. The plans for the health home, the bike route and the kindergarten gym are ready, but we can't get started. We also have liquidity issues. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The question is, therefore, why do they not deal with access to their savings for people and municipalities. We don't accept the answer.
u2015-03-23-141	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I often feel that LMP either doesn't listen to Parliament or doesn't read a newspaper or doesn't consult. [[Or all of them!]] You're talking about individuals and municipalities. The National Deposit Insurance Fund has started its compensation for 73,000 people. This is, by the way, 90 percent of the stakeholders for the four banks [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , 103 billion forints was borrowed by the OBA in order to compensate these 73,000 people. So much for compensation for private individuals. But the congresswoman is also lagging behind with regard to local governments, as we have said that the government has already made a decision, and in the second round, a survey is being carried out, and on the basis of that, a proposal is being made to the government, in which it will make a decision, which is otherwise not bound by any law or law, but will make a decision. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] on how the municipalities will be further assisted. I'm going to tell you that the government doesn't let private people down or local governments down. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Aah! Dr. András Schiffer: We leave no one on the side of the road!]]
u2015-03-23-143	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. At MSZP, the meeting point determines the position? It's an address. Mr Mihály Witzmann has the floor. [[13.50]]
u2015-03-23-144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, One of the interesting sidelines of the Buda-Cash scandal is the turn of the MSZP on the question of the integration of the savings cooperative. As a reminder: just a few weeks ago Tamás Harangozó accused the President of the Republic that János Áder played an active role in the formation of a group of banks belonging to the interests of Buda-Cash by not signing the Savings Cooperative Act in 2013, but sending it back to Parliament. The above quote is even more interesting because it has not even been two years since the socialists expressed a direct opposite opinion on the matter. István Józsa said on 10 July 2013 about the integration of the savings cooperative, and I quote: "This is a pretty harsh violation of the fundamental rights of the market economy, which constitute the foundation of private property protection. The government is the taxpayer, using our money to capitalise on the Fidesz Moonyard, at the expense of small-scale owners, savings cooperatives owners. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: You speak well!]] On the other hand, the socialists are now asking the President of the Republic, dear Gábor Harangozó, why he had sent the law back to Parliament. [[Gábor István Harangozó: Why didn't you send him to constitutional control? You shouldn't have signed it. You should have sent it back.]] From this we can conclude that the MSZP slipped in 2013 or is doing so now. But the line is not over here, fellow Members. On 13 November 2013, István Tukacs found that the savings cooperatives operating thousands of branches were stable financial institutions that not only managed well, but also had their own insurance funds. [[István Gábor Bellozó: You don't understand what you're saying, sit down!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You are also concerned that 15 representatives of MSZP voted against the bill in question on 26 June 2013 and that several members of the MSZP fraction were not present in the vote. It seems that the security of depositors was not considered so important at the time by the socialists. As the President of the Republic indicated in his letter of reply, the possibility and conditions of the conversion of savings cooperatives into banks were already given in the text of the draft law. The retrial didn't change that. In the case of any savings cooperative, the transformation itself could not depend on whether they were initiating their development into a bank, since the conditions for the transformation had to be thoroughly examined by the public bodies responsible for this. In view of the above, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Please, Minister, help the depositor's money with a secure savings cooperative...
u2015-03-23-145	Congressman, time's up.
u2015-03-23-146	... how did integration help depositors' money, and what could be the reason for the MSZP's turnaround? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-147	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, that you have the opportunity at any time to turn to the relevant wallet with an immediate question; please keep it nicely. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár to answer.
u2015-03-23-148	Fellow Members! Mr President, Thank you for the opportunity to answer the question. I hope that Parliament and the committees involved in the parliamentary work will have the opportunity and opportunity to discuss the future of savings cooperatives several times, given that savings cooperatives, I believe, will have an important role to play in lending Hungarian society, the Hungarian economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and agriculture in the next period. In particular, because the savings cooperatives that have been involved in the integration you mentioned are standing on their feet stable, given that today there are two insurance funds, a hedge fund and the National Deposit Insurance Fund itself. The Hungarian government guarantees a guarantee of 136 billion for the operation and operation of the savings cooperative system. Integration is about how we can protect these savings cooperatives, how we can stabilise them, how we can change them. I would like to tell you that a number of people have protested against the integration of the savings cooperative, and I do not assume that it is in personal interest. I think they did this out of ignorance and mistrust. The MSZP is also part of this circle. However, the facts do not strengthen them, but those who thought that savings cooperatives should be screened, that bad credible ones should be removed from the system, and that savings cooperatives should be capitalised and helped to become a Hungarian banking network. 11 savings cooperatives have been excluded from integration. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament, please consider this: 9 of the 11 savings cooperatives that were left out of integration have now gone bankrupt, just like the system that applied to the savings cooperative linked to Buda-Cash and later to banks. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the municipalities whose money was stuck in these banks, in former savings cooperatives, cannot be blamed, unless their money, which came to the bank, has been transferred to brokers as a result of the decision of the DRB Bank, who stole the money, creating a decade-long brokerage in Hungary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-149	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann.
u2015-03-23-150	Thank you very much. I accept Mr. Minister's reply. One part of my question concerned, of course, the actual content, because the other part was purely poetic, because obviously it cannot be expected from the Minister to explain the change in the position of the Socialist Group on the integration of the savings cooperative. This turn of events, I think, shows that the socialists were once again not important to invest and invest in depositors, the fate of investments and depositors was important, the questions of the restructuring of the savings cooperative, but rather their political interests at a moment's notice. In conclusion, we could also say that it is safe to say that the integration of the savings cooperative, which the socialists were at the time in extreme opposition, was certainly useful and necessary, because the functioning of the savings cooperatives involved in integration, as the Minister said, is still secure and stable. Customer savings are safe. I would also respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the government in its rigorous steps so that brokers can never steal people's money again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-151	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-152	Thank you very much. Indeed, we are looking for political allies to strengthen the savings cooperative system in Hungary over the next year and to reach as many Hungarian retail players and corporate players as possible in agricultural lending and green lending in the placement of European Union funds. What really happened here was that both Quaestor and Buda-Cash were tricked by brokers and their money was taken professionally. In the case of Buda-Cash, these former savings cooperatives and then banks were needed by Buda-Cash in order to be expected or presumed to be the continuous supply of cash from the savings cooperative customers to companies. This was not recognised by opposition forces who did not support the integration of the savings cooperative, thus allowing these savings cooperatives to become banks, and now brokers are stealing people's money as banks. Both brokers, Quaestor and Buda-Cash, are built on a broker trick or a series of tricks, the essence of which is to fool laymen, play their money, rob customers and rob the population. This is what I consider to be the most serious fraud in the whole case, what brokers have done with the savings of voters and taxpayers. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-153	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. 10 million people are affected, where is the study? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-03-23-154	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, They knew what was gonna happen, but they did. True, they lied all the time: there is no such study. Now everyone knows because the author himself acknowledged the existence of the study. They didn't shut down stores on Sundays without an impact assessment. In 2011, they examined what was expected of Sunday's closure. The impact study in 2011 contained nothing good, it included sending 15-20 thousand people out of trade and dropping some 50 billion forints from the budget, and two thirds of the population rejected it. We know there's a way to make up for the loss. It has to be taken from taxpayers, taken from somewhere else, preferably from a place that has already been successfully taken. If education, culture, health care, social care systems have been taken away so far, why not now, the poor, or as the EMMI recommends the name: the needy. This was included in the 2011 impact study, which cost more than HUF 3 million. True, the Ministry still doesn't find the material he made. How can such material just disappear, Mr. Secretary? In a normal workplace, this has serious consequences. Once again, who is responsible? As long as we cannot make a living on five days' work, Mr.Orbán said, we cannot support the closure on Sunday. These people who lose their jobs, let alone have five days now to make a living, none. I'd like to read you a citizen's opinion, Mr. Secretary. We accuse anyone who has contributed to that everyday scoundrel. All we need to do is find the exact rating, something like this: premeditated intent, vile reason, particular cruelty, continuingly committed, causing great social harm, scoundrelry. That's what people think. Where's the study, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for your answer. [[14.00]]
u2015-03-23-155	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-23-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to draw your attention to a law: the 2010 CXXX on legislation. Law 17. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 (1) of the Act refers to the preliminary impact assessment. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You'll never keep that.]] This requires that the author's duty and responsibility be to carry out an impact assessment. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is he?]] But you also know that, in the case of this law, this was not the government and not the Minister of National Economy, so there was no legal or legal obligation for the government, the Ministry, to carry out a preliminary impact assessment. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: KDNP is responsible for it?]] What you're talking about is not a preliminary impact assessment, but in 2011 the then Minister of National Economy ordered a poll - here you are, order [[He's showing it to me.]] You can find it on the Ministry's website - the point of which was to ask the public what you think about a possible Sunday closure. This research report cannot be a study, since it does not address its social impact, does not address its economic impact and does not address its possible political consequences. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It's a big problem!]] So don't confuse that. It's a research report. I repeat and stress that the government had no obligation and responsibility, but, of course, before the government supported the proposal, it took all aspects into account, especially the practice of other countries, and we can see that this system is also in place in other Western countries, which means that it allows many tens of thousands of workers not to have to work on Sunday. This is what this decision allows, and that is why the government has basically supported the bill. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2015-03-23-157	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2015-03-23-158	You know, Mr. Secretary of State, if it is not enough study to ask the Hungarian population about such an important issue involving ten million people, then I do not know what would be acceptable to you. By the way, let me quote the report where Secretary of State Béla Glattfelder made a statement last week and showed to the camera that the study exists here and was prepared with a sober peasant. You know, Secretary of State, that's what you don't have: common sense. Because if this government had common sense, it wouldn't have been introduced, because they would have known what the consequences would have been. If you don't care about 15-20,000 people and 10 million Hungarians, then I don't know what to count for in this country! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-23-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-160	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What surprises me is that he's a member of a left-wing party, a family mother. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Again?]] that he doesn't stand up for those women and women. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I stand up!]] who have to get up at 4:00 a.m. on Sunday morning and leave their families [[Crying out. The president's ringing the bell.]] You can't cook your Sunday lunch, you can't prepare your child, you have to go, you have to go to work on Sunday. I'm surprised it's from a left-wing party. [[The president's ringing again.]] "He who stands by the workers," they say, "is so opposed to those tens of thousands of women, their mothers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is this study? Answer me!]] I was talking to one, and he said he was very happy that he didn't have to work on Sunday because his child... And he didn't lose his job. [[The president's ringing again.]] And he won't earn less, because the consequence is that unfortunately he has to work more on weekdays, but his income will remain the same, and on Sunday he can be with his family. That was the goal, and that is what we have achieved with this decision. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-161	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I would like to inform my fellow Members that immediate answers and dialogue are not possible in the Chamber on immediate questions. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Does everything really work? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Cutter on the mark of Sebestyén:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-23-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, the Hungarian public thought that the Szentmiklós couple, who had brutally abused their children for years, held them in inhumane conditions, on the basis of the court's judgment at first instance, filling their sentence - they completed their prison sentence with less than a year's imprisonment - was released. What I do know is that the Secretary of State - I know it from the previous term - always refers to judicial independence, I am aware of that. I am also aware that tightening the criminal code is not an EMMI jurisdiction, but that EMMI, as the Ministry of Child Protection and Children Protection, should use its lobbying force to influence the competent ministry to tighten up these laws, because if it can be imposed as a minor penalty, then we are in a very bad place. The other bomb, which exploded, was a press conference at the D.A.'s office, where it was pointed out that there was clear evidence that brutal acts had taken place, the criminality of which was much wider, but, on such grounds, this was not taken into account by the court. And the third bomb was that if, second, they were right about the first-degree verdict, they would stand up to it, then this couple could even claim damages to the state. It's outrageous, and for that, the EMMI, as the Ministry of Child Protection, should do something. What you could do, in particular, is that this case, for example, could not have happened in relation to a number of other cases, or killed such a size if the child protection warning system had been in operation in Hungary. Either his legislation isn't good or his control isn't good, but it doesn't work, that's for sure. This is clearly the responsibility of the EMMI to finally develop a system in which the child protection signalling system can operate, to catch such situations in time, and such brutal acts cannot take place in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]]
u2015-03-23-163	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-23-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, all well - feeling people have been shocked by the description of the circumstances in which these children reported how they were kept, how they were afflicted, what they were fed, how they were treated, and how few of us really understand how to be so cruel to the most vulnerable youths in their childhood. Many were evidently expected, therefore, to be surprised by the outcome of the court ruling, a much stricter judgment. As the Member said, this is a judgment of first instance, so it will be a judgment of second instance which will be final. We will see what the court will decide in this case, whether it will cause serious or serious, or whether it will uphold the judgment at first instance. It was evident that the general opinion of the public was that it would have expected a much more serious decision from the court. And it was even more strange that the different judicial branches were pointing at each other after the sentence was drafted, but, as you said, it is not good for a government figure to say so, but at the same time we have seen people's expectations about it. It is important that what you said is that the kind of signalling system that can bring such cases to the surface should be more profound, so much so that it can signal if something like this happens. We are in a very difficult situation, because many times we are locked up in a house, such terrible cases happen in a house, it is difficult to notice. Where this can fall out, the general doctor, school, kindergarten or nursery, or any other institution to which these children are being taken and where they may be reported, and those working there, whether medical workers or teachers, notice that something is wrong with the child. Therefore, not only here, but in other parts of the country, a new guide has been prepared for these professionals, whose task is to care for such minors or children, to care for them, so that they can better recognize when such difficult crises occur, when to indicate that the child should be protected from even his own caregivers. We have also drawn your attention to this in particular training, this new guide, which has further detailed the professional rules for the protection of children. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-23-166	Thank you for the floor. The picantria of the situation is that in this case, this family was related to each member of the child protection signalling system. I do not think that the problem is that any qualified participant in the child protection signalling system does not recognise the signs of child abuse, and this can be very minimal. What may be a problem is that it may be possible that its legal regulations are inadequate for the child protection signalling system, or that its sanctioning system is inadequate for the child protection warning system, that the legal protection of those involved is inadequate, even at Btk. level. By the way, I would say here that the Jobbik Social Task Force will, in the near future, organise a professional conference on this topic, in order to discuss the child protection signalling system with its participants, and in the end, which is the result, we will, of course, inform the Ministry of the problems identified, so that we can help the system by promoting the current legislation in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.10]]
u2015-03-23-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-23-168	Thank you all in advance for your proposal on this. But you've been here in Parliament for the last four years when we've passed countless laws. You mentioned the criminal code, I don't want to go into it now. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Three strikes.]] Who voted for this, who did not, but in this penal code certain social groups are given increased protection. These children, women and the elderly, who have committed crimes to their injury, are now being punished much more severely than the previous criminal code. On the other hand, obviously, where more crimes are committed on an ongoing basis when it comes to relapsers, the current criminal code is even more stringent than before. In two or three sets of laws, Parliament discussed the proposal on child-friendly justice, one of which was the creation of child-friendly hearing rooms. Every child-friendly hearing room in every county is less traumatic to tell him what happened to him, because he can say this in the presence of few adults in an environment that is designed as a children's room, where it may be less traumatic for him. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from KDNP.]]
u2015-03-23-169	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr András Aradszki as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett nodds.]] Yeah. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2015-03-23-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you can read, the unlikely success of MET continues in this country. For the sake of Minister Lazarus, who claims to be less familiar with MET, and by the way, the tasks go beyond its intellectual capacity, that MET is a company that is also close to the Prime Minister, connected with friendly ties, and that the threads are practically up to Viktor Orbán; partly offshore and partly Russian-owned. Now MET has won another tender: soon the parliament will receive electricity from the new partner of MET, Magyar Telekom. So the light in which we will be sitting will soon come indirectly from MET, as the company thus indirectly became the electricity supplier of the Hungarian Parliament. Hungarian Telekom is now creating a mixed venture with MET, which is also interesting because it is important to see that these companies are two companies, none of which have their own power generation capacity. There are two ways to get this pair of energy when it comes to electricity markets: either from MVM or from other domestic players. Now, if you can say a better price than MVM, especially by selling through Magyar Telekom, it is an economic miracle, but otherwise it is almost impossible. Or they're bringing in this power from abroad. The question is, of course, why they bring electricity, and why not the public company, and why not the Hungarian tax-paying citizens are the ones who make the profits in this regard. But in this regard, we are now going to press charges, and we are not going to discuss it in Parliament, we are going to discuss it in the courts. In any case, we see that this business could have happened in two possible ways. One is that the price didn't decide. I ask you, then, what is it, Mr. Secretary of State? The other way is that MET received another targeted import discount and thus received cheap energy. This is also a legitimate point, since that is exactly what happened on the gas market. So, Mr. Secretary of State, my question is: has MET received a direct or indirect discount on the electricity market in recent years? Thank you.
u2015-03-23-171	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-23-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You can answer this briefly: you did not receive any discount from MET on the electricity market. To criticise the fact that an undertaking is making an alliance with another undertaking and is appearing on the market together, if the market can bear it and confirms it, that is a perfectly normal process in an economic life. In particular, the two operators concerned are not included in the universal service market but are acting as traders. The question that traders have no power generation capacity is, I think, a lot of traders can be asked. Traders are like that, not all of them have power generation capacity. So in this respect, I must say that your question is incomprehensible. With regard to the other part of the matter of what is going on with MET, we have said this many times in this Parliament, and I would not like to repeat it again. I would like to say one thing to you, and I would also like to ask you this question, Congresswoman, to say that, when Act No V of 2015 was not voted, what reasons led you to press the "no" button, given that this bill ensures from 11 May 2015 the cross-border capacity auction conditions that fully comply with EU standards. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We ask!]] Because, by the way, I think he's been talking again about the fact that something's not clear here. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: No way! Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Time! The president's ringing the bell.]] I declare, according to our current information, everything is in order around MET. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from KDNP.]]
u2015-03-23-173	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-03-23-174	So, look, Mr. Secretary, this is an interesting thing. It's an old cliché that the best defense is the attack, but the thing is, when we're on the government, I'll be very happy to answer your questions. In the meantime, the situation is the other way around: you're sitting there, I'm asking you questions, and you have to answer them. Thank you very much for responding to the fact that this is not about giving this team an import discount. Well, what do we have here? Economically, it's a completely absurd story. What is even more absurd is that in the light of the Hungarian Parliament, i.e. in the purchase of electricity, the state company belonging to the Hungarian taxpayer was virtually knocked out by a profit-oriented team. I think it's a point we shouldn't go past. The validity of MET in the market is nonsense because virtually every single forint they account for as a profit is a loss to Hungarian taxpayers. Now we are talking about the fact that the profits from the lighting of the Hungarian Parliament could go to the Hungarian taxpayers, if, let's say, MVM or MVMP would do this, but instead they go to MET, which ends up with who? There's Garanchi, there's a Russian investor and a big offshore net. How is that, Mr. Secretary?
u2015-03-23-175	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-23-176	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I regret to tell you that as Secretary of State for Energy, I am neither in charge nor in office of who various customers are taking power from. I also have no information as to who, in the framework of a public procurement procedure, has certainly won the power supply rights of the Hungarian Parliament. You must have looked into this, looked at the Public Procurement Gazette, looked at the results, looked at your evaluation. I'm sorry, it's not my job, it's not my jurisdiction. It is certain that the Hungarian Parliament has conducted the public procurement procedures, and if such a result has been achieved, Parliament will certainly benefit from it, because it will receive better electricity from the winner. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Almost brighter...]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from KDNP.]]
u2015-03-23-177	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mihály Balla, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "Do we allow the Islamic State to continue raging? It's an address. Minister László Szabó has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Michael Balla nods.]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-23-178	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The barbarian terrorist organization, which calls itself the Islamic State, has declared a fight against the entire Western civilization, destroying the entire universal cultural heritage and destroying everything connected to it. Terrorists killed European tourists in a museum last week, and every day videos of their prisoners being executed with selected brutality are on the Internet. For weeks the public has known the details of the planned Hungarian military engagement that would take place as a member of an international coalition of 62 states alongside Erbíl in North Iraq. [[14.20]] During the operation of the Serbian military camp, the Hungarian contingent of 100 would carry out its task under German and Italian command over the next two years. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has been consulting the parliamentary parties and factions for weeks in order to achieve the broadest possible consensus on Hungarian engagement. In addition to closed-door discussions, open committee meetings have taken place in the last few days, in the last few weeks, although some opposition continues to say no to joining the Western Coalition, while another part says that it cannot decide whether to side with it. I ask Mr Secretary of State how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees the process of negotiations and its various possibilities in terms of effectiveness. I would be honored to have your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó, who will answer the question of his representatives.
u2015-03-23-180	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! The answer to your question is short and clear: the Hungarian government is also ready to contribute to curbing the rampage of the terrorist organization Islamic State. The further destabilisation of the Middle East region has a direct and negative impact on the security of Europe as a whole, and we also know that the terrorist organisation will not stop at the borders of Europe. Together, we must put an end to the cruel actions that threaten the Christian community in its very existence. It is planned to send 100 soldiers to Northern Iraq, and another 50 would be standing by in Hungary. Fortunately, the region supervised by the Kurdish municipality, where the Hungarian soldiers would go, is currently among the safest areas in Iraq. Hungarian soldiers do not take part in direct combat activities beyond self-defense as required, they would provide the international forces training the Kurdish forces around Erbíl. One of the potential consequences of military participation can be the increase in Hungary's threat. During our previous engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan, our country has not become the target of radical Islamists, but it cannot be ruled out with responsibility that it will not be the case in the future, and we need to take the necessary precautions because of the likelihood of that. As you said, the government is preparing for participation, alongside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of National Economy, as well as the specialised services. On 10 March, we discussed the subject at the meeting of the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Wednesday, at the National Security and Defence Committee. At the beginning of April, an expert group will travel to the site to assess the environment and to further clarify the conditions of engagement on the basis of their report. The issue of engagement will probably be presented to this House in the middle of April, and we would like Hungarian soldiers to arrive in Iraq at the end of May or early June, depending on the decision of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla in return.
u2015-03-23-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It would be naive to think that Hungary can stay out of the conflict, as terrorists are working against the entire civilised European community, the whole civilised world, and they do not show any form of mercy, and many employees of MOL work near Erbíl, and we know well that terrorists do not distinguish between engineers and soldiers. I think it is important for Hungary that we can protect these people locally, and the soldiers are the ones who are best placed to do so and can do this. Nor is it incidental that, in order for this mission to be undertaken by the country, the broadest possible support, consensus would be needed, and there are several parliamentary parties that have not yet formed their opinions, such as the Hungarian Socialist Party, who regularly accused the government of turning their backs on their Western allies. They may now be convinced and, after discussions, will take a stand on whether or not they will support the mission. So it's essential. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr Secretary of State, to continue the discussion so that the parties that are still uncertain can take a clear position on the matter. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-23-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-184	Honourable Congressman, It would be wrong to believe that terrorist organisations would respect the opt-out or absence of any European country, so there is a threat, and that the European community of Western values and community of interests are part of our involvement in this task. We have already been involved in the political activity of the now 62 members of the international coalition, but military engagement would at the same time show the most spectacular Hungarian commitment to suppressing the terrorist organisation and stabilizing Iraq. I therefore trust that all parliamentary parties will support this participation. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - What about hospital debt? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-03-23-186	I accept, of course. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank you very much.]]
u2015-03-23-187	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-23-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Safe healthcare is the cornerstone of social security. During the negotiations on the budget, I said several times, and we asked the question several times, that the HUF 60 billion budget for health debt exceeding HUF 100 billion and the debt of hospitals will not be enough, and we see that the government has done nothing, otherwise we have not received any substantive answers to the question of what will be the remaining more than 40 percent. We now see that, according to the State Treasury report, in the first two months, January and February, hospital debt increased unstoppable by HUF 8.4 billion, of which 8 billion was in EMMI institutions. This debt is now in the vicinity of 107 billion forints, of which 77.4 billion - I would like to point out - has been accumulated in health institutions over 72 percent. I have arrived at institutions for outpatient and inpatient care, sector background institutions for health care and higher education institutions with clinical centres, and out of this huge amount, debt to suppliers of HUF 76.7 billion. Within the professional circles, the saying is that GYEMSZI and EMMI are going to have to put all these demands into their budgets, and suppliers are going to have to ask them for them. I ask the Secretary of State whether this is really a game with numbers, this HUF 60 billion was actually just a loan at the end of the month, and how much it will affect the budgets of the two huge institutions, EMMI and GYEMSZI, thus debt. Thank you for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-23-189	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-23-190	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member started with the budget debate, which is why it is important that this year there will be an overall HUF 9 billion in additional funding for healthcare on a wide range of items compared to last year, and in addition, since you have mentioned the debt of hospitals, it is extremely important that there is a separate HUF 60 billion framework in the Prime Minister's Office chapter completely regardless of the debt settlement of various public bodies. So this is the central source from which hospitals that can accept a programme and which prevents debt from being re-produced, you can expect to benefit from this overall 60 billion-dollar fund to help you pay off your overdue debts. At the same time, there have already been several kinds of assistance in the past, not only the usual so-called fundraising aid to hospitals, but also the government has provided special support to reduce waiting lists at three paces: last year, at the beginning of the year, HUF 1.5 billion, during the summer, and now, in December-January, during the winter, the government has provided HUF 6 billion in additional support to reduce waiting lists in hospitals; this is obviously accompanied by a reduction in hospital debt. So we are confident that these extra resources have helped hospitals, but we obviously know that the reason why the county conciliation talks are taking place in the health conciliation forums you know about at county level has been weeks, months, to see exactly what is causing the hospital to be indebted, and there are obviously many other issues where local health actors are exchanging ideas, so that we can come up with a plan that could mean a reasonable spending of this generous budget of HUF 60 billion. Thank you very much. [[14.30]]
u2015-03-23-191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, as you spoke, I added it up quickly: you were talking about HUF 17.5 billion. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's just the waiting list!]] What the hospitals got. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 90 for the budget, 60 for the debt!]] One and a half, one and six: HUF 17.5 billion plus HUF 60 billion is set for debt. You have withdrawn 300 billion forints from health care in the last five years, and are now preparing to withdraw another 40 billion forints. They're gonna tie the doctors up. My problem is that you don't see what the need is, what the ability is, what the capacity is, and where they actually meet each other. This kind of fiscal approach, which you are doing now, is actually just enough to know what money is available to achieve. Across the world, they stare at the shut-off machines in empty hospitals when there's a doctor and there's a need for a patient. I believe that these needs should meet each other, and that the forint and the penny should be found. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-193	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-194	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What you have added up, Congressman, is only the amount of the waitlist reduction. Then look back at whether the socialist period spent up to HUF 1 billion on the waiting list reduction. What you've added here in one year is a prettier amount of money that this government has been able to devote to reducing waiting lists, thank God, because budget revenues have been achieved. On the other hand, I started by adding HUF 90 billion to the budget; not minus, but 90 billion plus for healthcare on various items. Again, this is an additional source. What you said was that demand, demand, local survey, that's exactly what the county health consultative forums are about, where the hospital directors, the government officials, obviously members of the Medical Chamber, and everyone else involved in health care per county have been sitting down, and exactly what you said, those questions have been discussed for weeks and months. Congressman, I suggest that you be informed and see that what you have asked for has been going on for months at county level in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Szakács: I've been informed: it's cost 9 billion so far!]]
u2015-03-23-195	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "Why are they keeping secrets about tao money?" It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-23-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The system of support for the Hungarian sports sector was reformed in 2011 by your government at the time, laying new foundations for the financing model for the development and maintenance of the five priority sports, so-called visual team sports, and introducing the Tao support system. Experience gained over the years since then shows abuse of the aid scheme. We are constantly seeing phenomena, we are hearing stories about the abuse of those who donate from their corporate tax to the development of visual team sports, and the inaccessible management of beneficiaries. As an example, I can mention the MLSZ, which mentions that the Tao resources for sport are surrounded by a horde of intermediaries. Unfortunately, we hardly have any information on the serious billions of grants and their use, and almost all the actors point out that these funds are not actually public funds, but donations, so it is a private matter of the donor and the beneficiary. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian public can be misled, the Parliament may abuse the majority to hide the problem, but if the EU Commission approves the financing system as a whole, it will no longer be sufficient to use the devious expression of official lawyers. Although the EU Commission has approved the Tao Support Scheme, it has made it clear in point 65 of the preamble that these are public funds. The decision was taken by the Commission in the light of Hungary's compliance with the guarantees contained in the submission submitted to it, with transparent use, regular reporting and consistent monitoring among these guarantee elements as a priority. I ask: how do you intend to ensure the transparency of Tao subsidies? How do you explain the phenomenon that during the four years since the introduction of the system, despite so many investments, the number of visitors to football events has decreased? What do you intend to do to eliminate irregularities and suspected abuse situations? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-197	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-23-198	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government has done everything in its power to ensure that the visual team sports support system is transparent and can be followed up by everyone, even on the Internet. The use of resources is followed by a multi-stage technical and financial feasibility study and verification mechanism carried out under a strict protocol. A three-stage control and monitoring system has been established within the organisational framework of the administration as follows. The first shall be the prior approval of the sport development programme by the approval authority, which shall be published on its website by that sport organisation, together with the adoption decision. The second is the continuous monitoring of progress reports submitted on a quarterly basis. The third is the submission and examination of the final accounts after the closure of the sport development programmes after the grant period, certified by an independent auditor in the case of a grant of more than HUF 20 million. In addition, nearly 150 sports organisations were on-the-spot checks during the 2013-2014 grant period. The audit body is responsible for monitoring the legitimate use of the funds, monitoring the implementation of sport development programmes, and thereby promoting the development of sport. The legislation also describes in detail the conditions under which the aid should be used by the aided organisation. It is governed by a government decree that the sponsor is not entitled to any remuneration by the supported organisation for the grant of the aid, and the contrary agreement is void. Following 1 January 2014, the control rules changed. For sports development programmes below HUF 300 million, the audit is carried out by the sports associations, but the audit document is sent to the sports secretary of state. Over HUF 300 million, and in the case of sports associations and the sports development programmes of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the audit is carried out by the staff of the State Secretariat responsible for sport. The approved amounts can also be found on the Alliance website. The sports associations shall publish on their website the details of the aid certificates issued, including the amount of the aided organisation and the amount of the aid. If the congressman has questions about anything in particular, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] "Then feel free to contact our Secretary of State for Sport at a pre-arranged time," they will welcome you.
u2015-03-23-199	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-23-200	Mr. Secretary, what you said was beautiful. Indeed, it is written in the legislation, the problem is that none of this is being observed. The problem is, if you go to any association's website, you won't find any data. The problem is, when they ask you for information, you don't answer them either. I asked you a written question, and I'll be wondering how much you're going to answer about what you've spent, how much you've spent, and how you'll be able to account for it, if that's the case. There is no consensus between us in recent years, and we are constantly arguing with the government - for remembering only the words of Viktor Orbán, who said that a single forint of public money has not been used in the high road academy, all with the support of private people - that it is not recognised that there is public support, even though public money, the EU Commission has described this accurately and normally. You don't account for public money in the Tao case. Secretary of State, there should be a system in place, a system in place that should be seen by either politics or people, but you do not allow that to happen. So please change this so that everything is clear and transparent, so that we may not have to pay back serious sums of these money to the EU. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-201	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-202	Thank you very much for the floor. I have told you in detail, Mr President, what sports organisations, beneficiaries and associations should publish on their website. This is a legal obligation, and I think that the best way to be transparent is to have it published on your website, and from then on everyone can follow it. However, the results of these tao grants are quite large, as this system has brought about 300 new sports facilities, and nearly 500 sports facilities have been renewed so far. It is estimated that, assuming 10 hours of operation per day, this means that for the 300 new sports facilities completed, this will provide 63 thousand people with an additional 1 hour of sport per week. As regards the number of team sportsers, a total of 234 thousand athletes were certified in Hungary in the five sports before the launch, while it reached 344 thousand in the 2013-2014 championship season. This is 110,000 people, or 46.7 percent increase. That must be the result of the Tao system. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Public money or not public money in the tao?]] [[14.40]]
u2015-03-23-203	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. A total of 12 speeches after the agenda, fellow Members. After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a post- Agenda speech:. It's good to know about the TB address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The blood vessels on a sad branch-bogan / My crushed lungs on a tree... /... fall off like a sad, / Falling leaf, the weak flesh... / Stuffed between the ribs / Lungers, what a sad disease was lurking / From which, if sometimes... blood /... breaks up and reaches my lips /......... purple mud /............ drop out. The poem we just read is a depiction of our poet Árpád Tóth's own fatal illness, TB. The tuberculosis mentioned among the five great whips of mankind has repeatedly caused great epidemics since ancient times. It is a special fact of my speech that on 24 March of each year, the World Day of TB, with which the profession wishes to draw attention again and again to the bacteria discovered by German Róbert Koch, whose name is also preserved by the hospital in Edelény, which sickens nearly eight million people worldwide every year and kills two million people. I thought it was time instead of the usual health context - what is the disease, how can it be protected against, how it spreads - to shed some interesting light on the misconceptions and facts about it, thus drawing attention to the disease that has already become a part of our history. Let us first consider the historical interests associated with him. In the Bible, the book of Deuteronomy mentions the enemy Zanzumm tribe, who were destroyed by the terrible disease of Yahweh. Zanzumm means gasping and coughing, so the excellent paleopatologist László Józsa considers it an acute TB epidemic in his book Medicine in the Bible. But tuberculosis, in other words TB, based on recent research, destroyed the old continent about 5,000 times before our Common Era. The seven thousand-year-old bones hiding the traces of the disease were discovered in Hungary. Five of the bones found in the archaeological sites around Hódmezővásárhely-Gorzsa showed the presence of the disease. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In the 18th century, it was proved that large travels, especially to Italy, Greece, sometimes resulted in improvements in TB patients, so that many people sought relief or cure for their illness. They are the forerunners of health tourism, and as one of the effects of health tourism, beautiful works - road descriptions, poems, novels - were created by experience, landscape of Italy and people. In the age of romance, tuberculosis became a powerful inspiration for artists. But let's look at the Hungarian threads in this respect as well. In the past, TB was also called a morphus hungaricus, i.e. a Hungarian disease, referring to the fact that the proportion of TB in Hungary was particularly high. Excellent descriptions of the disease can be found in the works of our Hungarian poets: Janus Pannonius and Árpád Tóth also write about it, but Gyula Reviczky, our first modern Hungarian poet, who translated the work of Matyi Lúdas, Mihály Fazekas and Ibsen's Baby Room, struggled with the deadly disease. But Mihály Csokonai Vitez and János Arany struggled with the disease, although they did not die in it, but it is especially important to know that he died in four TBs out of the eight brothers of János Arany. But TB was not just a Hungarian disease. German poet-writer Novalis inspired his poem Hymnus for the Night by the death of his love for TB. Novalis himself died of tuberculosis when he was 29 years old, and he probably got the disease from his fellow writer Friedrich Schiller, who was also tuberculosis. Jane Austen, Sisters of the Bronth, Edgar Allan Poe, Chekhov, Keats, Balzac, Shelley were all TB patients. In many of the masterpieces of world literature, we meet the lung-sick character Katerina Ivanovna in Sin and Punishment, Kirillov in Devils, Hippopolit and Marie in the Idiot. In addition to Dostoyevsky's novels, we must remember XX. Thomas Mann's grand novel Magic Mountain, one of the major works of the century, in which all the characters' bodies are attacked by this disease. But the two classics of opera literature, Verdi's Traviata and Puccini's Bohemian life, end with the tragic death of the lung-sick heroine. The effect of the disease on art is perhaps one of the most serious of all diseases. There are few diseases that all branches of art would have dealt with so much and so profoundly. We can conclude, therefore, that TB was a truly large-scale killer, not an epidemic, but a constant presence in society - the only disease that has become a cultural phenomenon. But briefly, where we are now in Hungary. Since 1954, we've been using vaccines to protect against TB in patients with antibiotics. While in 1953 there were 5,000 patients, by 2013 this figure fell to less than 1300 patients. The number of patients is reduced by 5 percent per year, but regions such as Borsod, Szabolcs-Szatmár, Hajdú-Bihar county, Budapest, are particularly affected. It is also worth noting that since 31 March 2014, the general requirement for TB lung screening has ceased, and since then we have only focused on risk groups. So let the many literary examples, the historical recollection as a warning and warning to us that waking up against TB is always very important, even though rarely, perhaps - and fortunately for us - we can only see TB in readings, and only from reading can we know about it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-205	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-23-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for bringing this to the attention of the National Assembly before World TB Day. We can say that the situation in Hungary is indeed improving year after year, and this is supported by international recognition. Based on the latest TB registration data for 2014, Hungary is one of the countries with persistently low infections, thank God. The number of TB diseases has shown a continuous and significant reduction over the last five years, so we can conclude that the epidemiological situation of tuberculosis in our country remains safe. In fact, it is an obvious trend in Hungary that the annual decline in new cases of TB over a specified period of time is higher than 10 per cent, while in Europe it is only 5 per cent on average, so that TB infection continues to decrease twice as much in Hungary as in other European countries, if we look at the average. As far as international recognition is concerned, representatives of current health policy have also consistently supported the fight against TB, which has also gained international recognition. In addition to the Kingdom of the Netherlands, WHO has asked our country to organise and support the fight against TB with our expertise in Eastern European countries. International recognition and trust are due to the fact that the fight against the disease has always been a priority in Hungarian health professionals. In recent years, there have been extensive discussions involving several sectors and WHO experts, and subsequent professional changes that have contributed to increasing the organisation of efforts to curb TB. I think that for all the doctors, researchers, civil society organisations and everyone else involved in this work in the past decades, in reducing TB in Hungary, it is a very nice recognition that Hungary is invited to take international action in this work. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-207	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Member of the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novák, also spoke after the agenda: the loss of population endangers the pension system and the general government as a whole under the title "2" I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-23-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As a permanent invitation to the Population Round Table, which has no voting rights, I would like to continue the presentation of the resolution entitled Low Birth Numbers and Emigration, which threatens the future of social security and public finances, shadowing our growth prospects. In my speech after the last agenda, I concluded that, due to sudden and falling child births, after 2030, there would be insufficient contributions. Large social security systems will be shorter and, in particular, in the longer term, seriously lacking. At the same time, life expectancy is also increasing, i.e. pension payments should be made to individuals for an ever longer period, which requires higher payments from pension funds. At the same time, the decline in the proportion of working age and the risk of emigration of the most skilled can also become a dampening factor in economic growth in the medium term. Retention of foreign employment by administrative means is not possible. Youth unemployment is worryingly high. I need jobs and higher wages at home. There is little government intention to raise wages. As a result of the low wage level, there has been a large influx of foreign capital in Hungary since the system change. [[14.50]] The increase in labour costs, if not accompanied by much higher labour value gains, could lead to emigration. Strategic planning does not seem to take account of the problem of a very high minimum wage rate. These citizens are expected to have worryingly low social security benefits in cash, including both childcare and pension prospects, and they are expected to exert strong pressure on the aid system. All of this can cause social tension for those retiring within 15-20 years that the government and society must already prepare for this. With this in mind, the Population Round Table has proposed a draft pension reform, which, through the approach, would influence demographic trends in a positive direction, which would announce the establishment of a pension supplement for the children raised and trained. An improvement in the impact of this complex package of measures would alleviate the demographic challenge on the pension system, but would also bring immediate economic benefits. However, this proposal would not solve the problem of emigration to other EU countries. This could probably only be helped in conjunction with other Central and Eastern European countries, acting jointly for regulation at European level. The richer Western countries of the EU alleviate their own population problems and labour shortages by draining the population from poorer countries in the eastern region, but without at least transferring the costs of raising the absorbed workforce back to the issuing countries. This absurd situation must be changed. We recommend to the government that, in anticipation of the inevitable nature of the changes, with professional and social partners committed to solving demographic problems, prepare the introduction of a real contribution-based pension system as quickly as possible, develop its migration policy addressing these economic and demographic challenges, to which the Population Round Table will again offer its expertise. Dear Parliament, Last time I missed it with a subtle aim, which was foreseen that the government did not want to respond to these very serious points, this responsible resolution. I am pleased that there is now some movement, and now the government is finally being represented in the speeches after the agenda, and perhaps it is speaking to it. You can add your support or opposite opinion to this, since unfortunately, this pension reform, for example, has so far been swept away. Unfortunately, they backed away from the attacks from the Balliberal Circles, which shouldn't have allowed them to back down. And I say this not only because, in our programme, a round pretzel is included in such a pension supplement, which would acknowledge that someone raises their children, especially raising them for work, but also that I think it is necessary because, as it appears from this resolution, it is inevitable that we should start to make a meaningful change in demographic trends, otherwise the whole of social security, and what is more, the future of public finances, will become questionable. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-209	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-23-210	Thank you very much for the floor. In 2010, the government decided to take a family-friendly turn, as it thought and believed that the demographic issue, the demographic problem, was one of the most important things that we were facing, and that was why we had to act clearly in this area. I think we can say that in the last four and a half years, when it came to supporting families, when it came to strengthening families, this government did not delay a moment in legislation or support, and tried to give everything to the 1.2 million children's families. This is why it was important that over the past four years we left an overall HUF 860 billion bonus for families. There are cases where this occurs as an extra benefit, for example, when we have restored it, although the socialists have abolished it for three years, but we have also given the third year to the families. This means at least 300,000 forints for each family as an additional support. In addition, we supported the employment of women returning from childbirth, for example, in the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs. So we have managed to help families in a wide variety of ways. But obviously the biggest support is the introduction of a family-type taxation system, which leaves more support for families, the more children they raise and work with. We can say that a family of three children with an average income does not pay any kind of public burden in Hungary today, since the net and gross income also coincide, so there is no need to pay any kind of tax or contribution. The contribution allowance introduced from the beginning of last year has benefited precisely those who have the lowest income. To them, this was a tangible help, that there was no need to pay contributions, that they could not only benefit from tax relief, but that the possibility of aid was now greater. This means that we have managed to raise this level from the demographic low point, the lowest level of fertility rate, level 1,26, to 1.41. This means that a woman of childbearing age or a couple now has a much better picture in the number 1,41 than the previous 1.26, since 1.41 children are averaged. It's a noticeable shift. With this, Hungary managed to return to the period before the Bokros package, which means that 5500 more children are born. A very large increase, a 14 percent increase in the birth rate compared to the previous period. [[Previous Novak: How much of this is Hungarian?]] We hope that this trend will continue, we hope that more and more children will be born in Hungary, and then everyone who wants to have children will not have the tax system or any other deterrent effect in the coming years, as it will give them the opportunity to raise the child, at least to remove the financial obstacles, of course, for those who want to have children. Also, childbearing requires not only tax relief, but also an extension of the so-called Socpol discount. This is called a family home-building discount, shortcut CSOK, which will be available much more widely from 1 July this year, for single children as well, and most importantly, not only for the construction of a new apartment, a new house, or for the purchase of a new house, but also for the purchase of a second-hand apartment. In this way, we will be able to support the possibility of moving to a larger property with a children's room. Gyed extra or various changes in labour law that have helped mothers return to work could be mentioned for a very long time, but I hope that this trend will continue, and in Hungary, as there have been 5500 more children in recent years, this will continue in the future, and Hungary can be a growing country again. But before that, we hope that the rate of population loss will continue to decline, which is a decades-old problem, a problem in Hungary since the eighties. However, this trend has only been reversed and reduced in the last four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Kiss, MSZP Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:. Lábodi deer attack - another animal torture? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Over two hundred thousand people watched and tens of thousands shared one of the most popular video-sharing pages, with hundreds of deer crossing the Somogy County Foot road. The savages crossed a clear road, so there was no accident, but the circumstances of the case were examined by several. Locals are used to seeing wild animals crossing the road, but experts say that this was not an everyday occurrence, which could have been caused by illegal antlers. Péter Ihárosi, Sefag Zrt. According to his forestry spokesperson, there is a clear picture of deer running from something to the forest of refuge. In his opinion, the number of wildlings was not ordinary, probably because of the interference of illegal antlers. The phenomenon can also be considered animal cruelty because animals disturbed in their rest periods may weaken and grow smaller antlers. However, this is the mildest case that can happen. Illegal collectors are organized in the forests between December and April, not waiting for deer to drop their antlers, but even to chase or trap these animals until they are exhausted. Often, frightened animals are run by such force that deer also knock down fences, so they get on the road. It is also common to stretch bowdens or wires at antler height, often causing amazing injuries to animals. It is easy to see that the deer are not even taller, there are lower and taller, so the bowdens are stretched out by unscrupulous people who want to make a minimum profit by torturing dozens of animals. [[15.00]] While these unscrupulous animal torturers perform unscrupulously barbaric animal torture, the financial benefit is not significant: they kill, torture, weaken animals for 30-40 thousand forints per antler. It is important to note that the pursuit of deer and the illegal collection of antlers carry out a number of crimes. Since the fallen antlers are also the property of the wild farmer, the crime of theft will be carried out in the first place, while the torture of deer is also a felony of animal cruelty. Obviously, deer does not pay attention to road vehicles while moving, so traffic is also seriously threatened by wild game. In fact, the fence is not a solution either, since these very fences are used to drive these animals to prematurely destroy their antlers, many times with such force that these fences are already broken through into the body of the track. An Óbuda-bound civil society organization, don't hit me! It has launched a movement called "Driver and authorities" to draw attention to the need for fewer animals to be killed on the road. Obviously, however, no authority and no motorist can be prepared for a traffic situation where deer, scared to death, engulf the roads and drive into these animals. It is therefore necessary to point out at all forums that this illegal deer drive is not only barbarity, it is not only animal cruelty, but also a serious threat to the transport situation. I ask the government to take action against these unscrupulous people who torture animals like this, endanger traffic and commit a felony theft. Thank you.
u2015-03-23-213	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2015-03-23-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech after the agenda. Indeed, he drew attention to a serious problem. I could sit down very quickly and say that I agree with you on everything you've said, because in this case it is true. The question of animal cruelty, the other questions you raised, are indeed correct. Some things I would like not to reflect on, but to draw attention to. One is that the case of the theft, which was named in the penal code, will enter into force at the moment, or we can talk about the theft at the moment when these antlers are trying to remove these antlers from the scene. For our part, which is a very important task to have regulations in state forestry that deal with how to collect antlers in a given area, who can collect, how to register, so how much money they pay for collecting or collecting, and what places they can actually collect. It is a welcome news, or at least I think that we can agree on this, that it is a good news that this protocol was completed at the Somogy forest farm, Sefag Zrt., and the rules on how to collect antlers have been established, and in accordance with the CEO's instructions, this has already been done during the period when the event happened. Unfortunately, we're talking about illegality here, and we're talking about antlers trying to get antlers illegally without any announcement, without complying with the law. Moreover, the continuous control of these areas, the professional hunting tasks performed by professional hunters, can be partly helpful, but in many cases we only learn about it afterwards, or we see the problem afterwards. He mentioned that the fences were not a solution for the collision of the vehicle game. My personal position is that fences in relation to wildlife are in almost no way a solution. We need to find other solutions. It is certainly noteworthy what problems with the overgrowth of the deer population may arise in road transport, but here we were talking about a specific case, which is clearly due to the fact that such an illegal activity was an illegal disturbance. Otherwise, the necessary reports and the necessary legal steps have been taken by the forestry industry on this issue, and I support everyone, and I could also say that the government is asking for support so that these illegal antlers can be caught as soon as possible and that this activity cannot be carried out in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-215	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In addition, Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-scheduled speech: they also serve the Hungarian people by volunteering and offering 10 percent of their fees with the title Jobbik MEPs. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona announced in his annual speech in January that Jobbik will announce the year of volunteering. In this context, each member of Jobbik's parliamentary group spends at least one day a month doing some kind of voluntary work, and we will offer 10 percent of our honor fee for social and charitable purposes. Gábor Vona had already started his disguise country, which had positive experiences, positive reception among the people, and we were encouraged to join this type of work, as well as the rest of the faction. Human and professional aspects have also led us to do this, because it is very important to break down the wall that the parties of the last 25 years have drawn between people and politicians. In order to be able to make informed decisions as legislators, as members of the Parliament about people's daily lives, it is important that we also experience how people live, what problems they face in their work, and what difficulties they face every day. It is also important to get to know the professional issues of a sector through this, such as social institutions and educational institutions, to face the problems there. It also increases the empathy of our politicians, our representatives. More than once, the Member of Parliament is joined by our president or local government representative, but there have also been cases, such as in Budapest, Ferencváros, that our entire organization has offered to help us in the children's home there, and we have been volunteering to help this institution operate throughout the year. So we have visited various institutions, primarily social institutions; they have seen Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the Parliament, for example, in the nursing home. We do volunteer work in kindergartens, schools, children's homes, or food distributions. Unfortunately, the attitude of the municipalities is not as supportive as that of the people. We find that, in particular, in Fidesz-led municipalities, not only would they act in favour of such initiatives, but they are trying to prevent better representatives from doing voluntary work. Our presence there is banned in institutions in the maintenance or operation of the municipality. The head of the institution is threatened or subsequently, when the head of the institution would already agree to a better representative to assist the institution, mayors and sub-Mayors from the municipality will subsequently tell the municipality not to let the better representative in. Ladies and gentlemen, The public relations that have developed over the past 25 years are often condemned, and we often say how small-scale politicians can take action. I believe that this is a typical example of what should be exiled from public life; it is an eloquent example that a helping hand is rejected solely because you did not come up with this extremely good idea, which is very popular among people. This is not a big deal, of course, but it is not what I will say, for example, in the case of 10%, what 10 percent means in a Fidesz municipality, for example, and what 10 percent means in Jobbik. It's about wanting to help people's everyday lives in this way and getting to know them. It's just a matter of a few hours of activity that would bring people closer to the Jobbik faction. By the way, we hope that as many as possible civil society organisations and politicians will join this. [[15.10]] The other part of this initiative is the issue of 10 percent, which we would also like to remove the shame of, because if we ask people in public life what 10% means, most of them would certainly say that it is related to corruption. We would like to set an example by which we will offer 10 percent of our fee, as soon as we create the legal possibilities for this, for charitable purposes. It would therefore be very good in this case, too, if, on the pro-government side, the local government leaders were not to see who the initiative was, but to look at the case itself, its duration, and to judge whether they supported it on this basis. After the ban on job accumulation, the abolition of immunity, the disclosure of family property declarations, Jobbik took another initiative to support and join all Members of Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-217	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László Varju, an independent Member, spoke with the title of the most important events of the last week. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-218	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The closed and closed government not only closes shops, but also seems to be targeting local governments and hospitals. The situation in health has been unsustainable for years, and yet the Orbán government is constantly seeking and acting in this way to withdraw funds. I would also like to present, through a specific example of this, what the government's attitude towards health and what solutions it is doing. Let us consider this in the example that in recent days, weeks ago, I was in Jászberény, the hospital there, before and since, there have been a number of articles that clearly show how nothing should be done in health care, in the operation of hospitals. It is already said that the bomb is ticking under the Jászberény municipality, because their decisions made over the last few years have consequences for the operation of the hospital, in which the municipality has to endure. The municipality concluded a contract 15 years ago, which was modified by the majority of Fidesz's representatives in the process, after 10 years, and then those who contested it were otherwise sued, and the municipality today has a debt of HUF 750 million and a debt to the company. This will have serious consequences for the municipality, since for a municipality with not much more general government operations and operating costs, this means expenditure that cannot be financed alone. For the time being, the local government is silent, the mayor of Fidesz dares not tell the city what they have done, and this is the case even if the MP of Fidesz tries to present or try to sell it as if it had something to do with József Gedei's former or former mayor. [[János Pócs: That's right! That's right!]] With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite your whispering here with the Secretary of State, it was him. [[János Pócs: Who has harmed the city!]] The man who protested your proposal is saying the opposite in vain. You have created the situation that now a very high amount of payments must be made to the municipality. [[János Pócs: József Gedei was the mayor!]] Don't hide from people, don't play committee, but otherwise fulfill their obligations; two, confess justice to men. I want you to stand up in front of the municipality, the city, and admit that the transformation you've made is primarily directed against the suppliers you've put in an impossible position. Because it is necessary to see - this is the example mentioned above - that today health care is financed by suppliers worth more than HUF 70 billion in Hungary. Today, many large and smaller Hungarian companies lend loans to municipalities, hospitals, the state budget because of your forced behaviour, because they refuse to pay. Therefore, resources must not be withdrawn from health care, but must be included in this for the health of people, for the sake of healing. You don't have to steal this money, you have to put the money in here. [[János Pócs: Gedei stole it!]] What you've done so far is clearly harmful. I can say with all my heart that health care would no longer work without these companies if you were the only ones left with it. Plus, what kind of exercise are they doing? Not only will the former company or the contract be closed and the money is actually stolen from them, but in the meantime another way is to bring in suppliers and force them to pay this much otherwise, if they accept this much, then that's enough for them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Gentlemen, This is invaluable and unacceptable in Europe. You owe me. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The patients, the doctors, the nurses. Give me your debt.
u2015-03-23-219	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State L. Simon László, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2015-03-23-220	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There's no need to be so angry and nervous, Congressman, the more nervous you are, the more you seem to be wrong. I am glad that, since he is independent, he has had time to go to the country and finally see what is happening in Hungary. But it is not only worth talking to those who tried to steal the hospital and those who otherwise concluded their little business contracts on behalf of your parties, but also those who actually work there, and who have suffered the damage that your irresponsible politicians have done. Let's look at the facts that you've given here in a loud voice and shouting. In 2000, Dr. Magyar Levente, Mayor of SZDSZ of Jászberény, concluded a contract with Dalkia. This contract, which, by the way, was of no benefit to the hospital, was terminated by the MSZP mayor, who, by the way, is now political in DK's colours, so he is not really far from you, I think. So in 2008, Mayor József Gedei terminated this contract. With the entire action caused by the Mayor of SZDSZ and then the MSZP, József Gedei politicalizing the colours of DK, the total amount of damage was HUF 750 million at Jászberény Hospital. [[László Varju: He's lying! János Pócs: That's right! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, It is no coincidence that the Government Audit Office and the State Audit Office are also investigating this matter. You should be sweeping around your own house instead of making accusations and picking on that current Fidesz mayor, hurting him unworthyly here in this House, who, in this situation, has turned to the authorities and is trying to clean up. In the city of Jászberény, it is rumored that your party partner, József Gedei, quit the contract with Dalkia in 2008, because it was intended that HospInvest should have played the hospital that was apparently not at HospInvest in the right place, as well as other hospital examples. Honourable Congressman, I'm not gonna talk about five minutes. You talked through it, and you kept making accusations and yelling for five minutes. What I can advise you to do is, when you are on this journey, which you are continuing, be kind enough to be informed, to ask the many honest, decent people who work at Jászberény Hospital, and to try to restore the health of the citizens there, those medical directors, doctors, nurses, nurses and not only with them, but also with the technical staff, the staff up to the cleaning women, everyone who works decently in that hospital, to talk to you, and then it will be revealed to you that the current mayor has nothing to do with what you are talking about. This situation was caused by your party partner, József Gedei, who terminated this contract in 2008, and a situation that was actually brought about by a Mayor of SZDSZ in 2000. So together with my fellow Members, we look forward to the results of the investigations of the Government Audit Office and the State Audit Office, and we hope that the citizens of Jászberény and the citizens of the region will find a satisfactory solution to this situation, because their health, their health, is the most important thing for the government. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-23-221	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a post-meeting address at the 59th session of the UN Committee on Women's Situation. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[15.20]]
u2015-03-23-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! This year, the 70-year-old United Nations seeks to fight for international law and security, economic development that is fruitful for all, the strengthening of social responsibility, human rights and the peaceful coexistence of nations. At present, the international community is preparing to take a very important step. At the end of August, at the beginning of September, we will adopt a document containing sustainable development goals, which will be signed by the Heads of State and Government, which will ensure the common well-being of our planet, which will also provide our living conditions. I was previously honoured to report to my fellow Members on this process and on the Hungarian engagement in creating sustainable development goals led by Csaba Kőrösi. The UN is making great efforts in many areas. For example, it shows that the Committee on Women's Situation held its 59th session in March. We have taken successful steps to strengthen women's rights, to ensure their participation in decision-making processes and to combat violence against women as a result of committed and continuous attention. But we still have a lot of work to do. This is demonstrated by the fact that point 5 of the Sustainable Development Goals sets out the commitment to achieving gender equality and to strengthening the capacity of women and girls to act and promote their interests. And it also proves the considerable strain of work that the Committee on Women's Situation did during its March session. I am pleased to be able to inform my fellow Members of the outstanding results that the Hungarian mission has achieved under the leadership of Ambassador Katalin Bogyay. This year, the meeting of the World Ministers for Family and Women was an extraordinary element of the session on the 20th anniversary of the Beijing World Conference on Women's Affairs. The extraordinary interest is shown by the numerous accompanying events involving 9,000 NGOs that discussed the role of women and families in society. In the ministerial segment of the UN conference, Hungary was represented by Katalin Novák State Secretary for Family and Youth. He spoke at the ministerial roundtable debate on women's economic ascent and at the general debate in the Assembly Hall, where he presented the Hungarian achievements in women's affairs and the remaining challenges in recent years. From representatives of international civil society organisations participating in the conference, Madam Secretary of State took over the petition in which 22,000 of its signatories thank Hungary for their committed family policy. Katalin Bogyay led the panel discussion on the health of mothers and newborns, organized by the Hungarian mission. The aim was to exchange the various experiences of the countries of the world in an interactive form, to discuss existing problems and to present the unique Hungarian practice, the patronage network. I asked for the floor in the parliamentary panel myself and informed them of our achievements and plans. On the day of the parliamentary debate, the Hungarian mission organized an exhibition showing the life of Mother's Savior, Ignác Semmelweis, in the main building of the United Nations. The exhibition was compiled with the help of the Medical History Museum. The Deputy Executive Director of UN Women, Ambassador Lakshmi Puri, was able to win the UN's role in honoring the forward-looking life of the Hungarian doctor, referring to the UN's campaign of He for She, to which the male members of the Hungarian UN mission joined. At the ceremony diplomats, UN representatives, the Hungarian parliamentary delegation and representatives of local Hungarians were also present, and they also heard the opening speech of Secretary Katalin Novák. There is a long list of progress made, and we will be able to talk about it, as we invited Ambassador Erzsébet Schmuck, another member of the Hungarian delegation, to talk to Parliament to discuss our tasks and opportunities. In one sentence, it was very good to be Hungarian in New York in March. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-23-223	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Katalin Novák wishes to respond to the speech after the agenda. I give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-03-23-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for bringing this subject to Parliament. I think this is a very important issue, and there is not enough talk within the walls of Parliament about the situation of women, and here, above all, about the situation of women in the world. After all, we are talking about a UN event, which is very detailed, and I will not repeat those words. In fact, the 59th session of the UN Women's Situation Committee was attended by all three of us in New York, representing the government side. Twenty years ago 189 countries adopted the Beijing Action Plan and the Beijing Declaration, which set out tasks for the coming decades to improve the situation of women in all countries of the world. These tasks of the Beijing Action Plan have actually been reviewed by all countries in New York. Twelve topics have been identified in Beijing that are particularly critical. These are education and training, health, the economy, human rights, the environment, decision-making, poverty, violence, war conflicts, the role of underage girls, the institutional system and the media. These are areas where particular attention should be paid if the situation of women is to be further improved. Hungary has also reported in writing on the progress made, and we have now had the opportunity, at the New York session, to supplement them orally and to present concrete good practices that may be useful to the rest of the United Nations. Here, I would like to highlight what is our main idea if we are talking about women's politics. We believe that family policy and women's policy cannot be opposed. In fact, without a supportive and good, effective family policy, it is not possible to talk about a good woman's policy. We do not want these two to be confronted by anyone, because it is possible to put women in a position, to create freedom of choice for women, only if we give them the opportunity to reconcile family life and work, and that is what Hungary's actions and efforts in the area of family policy are for. We have reported on how in the legislative environment, the Fundamental Law, the Equal Treatment Act, we have created the legal conditions for equality between women and men in society. We have talked about the concrete actions we have taken to bring family and work together and to create women's freedom of choice. We have also reported that what we have achieved at European Union level in terms of women's employment is outstanding, because women's employment is at a peak of 20 years, and women's unemployment is at a minimum of 20 years, so our results speak for themselves in this area. Let us also say a few words about violence against women: the government has done a lot in this area, too. It is thanks to this government that there has been a separate criminal act of contact violence, and we are also working to develop a network of crisis centres, secret shelters and families to help women and families in this area. I believe that what Mrs. Congresswoman has said, I must also underline that the participation of Mrs. Katalin Bogyay, who is now our new UN ambassador in New York, has also made our work easier, because it is important that we have a female leader in our United Nations mission in New York right now, and her work has helped us to organise two accompanying events for the first time this year. One presented the Hungarian defence network and the other was about the work of Ignác Semmelweis. What you said, Congresswoman, I would like to emphasise once again that we have received a petition signed by over 22,000 people. This was initiated by an international NGO, its name was Thanks You Hungary; in this they thanked the Hungarian government for the efforts it has made in the area of family policy and thus recognised our activities in this area. I also felt that it was good to be Hungarian in New York again this week. Thank you very much for visiting the Hungarian delegation, and I hope that there will be as much talk about this subject within the walls of this House as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2015-03-23-225	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, has also applied for a post-scheduled speech: does the government feel it is appropriate to bleed out domestic bus production? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the large ideas of the government, reindustrialisation is one of the cornerstones of the economy, saying that industrialisation should serve the purpose of changing the structure of the Hungarian economy, in addition to creating new jobs, to make it healthier. On the part of the government, at least at propaganda level, the automotive industry, the food industry, logistics, electronics and the health sector are central to the conclusion of so-called strategic agreements. There is no problem with this, of course, because we should indeed resurrect the industrial production base of the once famous world-famous sectors in Hungary, because this is a necessary prerequisite for the improvement of economic growth in the real - and not only in the newscasts in Orwell, which are full of victory reports, the creation of new quality jobs for Hungarian workers and the transition to a sustainable industry that is also important for the environment. On the other hand, the reality does not look so beautiful, perhaps it is not only due to the revenge of Lajos Simicska when he quoted the words of Secretary of State János Fónagy of the Hungarian Nation the other day. The Secretary of State said:. The annual ideal capacity of a bus company is 10-12 thousand pieces, while the Hungarian demand is only 600-800, so bus production cannot be operated economically in Hungary today. This shocking opinion has unfortunately become a reality over the past four years: while 432 units were sold here in 2013 and 467 units were sold here last year, the buses sold were mostly from foreign manufacturers, since the appearance of the Credo buses in Győr-Mosonmagyaróvár in Pécs unfortunately only slightly nuanced the overall picture. Is it appropriate for the government to buy Swedish-Polish vehicles while the previously announced national bus programme is fading, and while the Volán companies - except for the current 60-piece domestic order of Pannon Volán - buy Swedish-Polish vehicles, while Turkish vehicles arrive in the Buda Castle, the innovations of the Hungarian engineers and the quality performance of the Hungarian skilled worker crew have once been a success in domestic bus production? It should be noted, however, that these vehicles were successful not only from here on the Iron Curtain, but in many cases they were also noticed in the markets beyond the Iron Curtain and were indeed sought out. It is therefore incomprehensible from a national economy point of view that foreign companies should be provided with fatty orders, although even in the area of spending EU development resources the involvement of the domestic supply chain should be increased. The primary objective should be to bring investment in the renewal of the fleet together with the recovery of domestic production capacity. In the framework of the strategic Rába-Volvo cooperation, Volvo buses came from the Polish factory of the company, in fact finished, and only the installation of the passenger information tools was carried out at Rába in Győr, which is the most absurd joke in Jobbik's reading, the humiliation of the Hungarian partner, but certainly not strategic cooperation. Cooperation is definitely negative from a domestic point of view. We can say that there is nothing more than the expensive imports made under Rába's company, and the matter of foam on the cake is also the case of foreign midibuses entering the Buda Castle. I don't have to tell you, we weren't thinking of opening up this East. And the terrible thing is that we can safely expand this phenomenon, say, to other sectors of vehicle manufacturing, to another sector with a great tradition, to railway vehicle production. We understand that if there is no money to buy new vehicles, then, let's say, they buy used vehicles, it is quite clear that in this case they come from abroad. But what we are asking of the government is that when they think about new acquisitions, domestics should be given priority. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-23-227	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State László Tasó wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-23-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government is committed to re-launching and developing domestic bus production, taking into account the real economic potential. We plan to implement a major vehicle modernisation programme in the coming years, and this can be done at regional transport centres established as successors to Volán companies. In doing so, all manufacturers in future public procurement procedures can start with real and equal opportunities under the relevant Hungarian and European legislation. All interested producers will have a realistic chance of applying, thus making use of and improving their production capacity. The participation of companies providing Community transport services in public services can clearly be done according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, so there is no other way to do this, we cannot act, and it would not be appropriate to push for this from the side or in any way. We had to and must act in line with EU vehicle modernisation competition, and I think that this is also a clear and public policy goal for everyone. It is important to have a complex approach when purchasing vehicles, so that both purchasing and maintenance costs are adequately reflected in the assessment. We also need to take into account the existence of a value-for-value ratio, and when you mentioned the purchase of buses in the vicinity of the Castle, if you would like and would like to know, you can get to know it, and then you can see the reasons for the purchase and the support. Therefore, when prices are applied to tenders in a competitive situation, there is nothing else the examiner can do but act according to the rules. On this basis, bus and/or coach manufacturers, including domestic companies, can participate in bus and/or coach contests offering all participants the same chance and opportunity as a result of which they will be able to make use of the production capacity and, together with the development of domestic bus and/or coach production. Moreover, Hungarian innovation and Hungarian resources are also linked to the acquisition of the previously mentioned used trains, as their renovation - usually cost about HUF 11-12 million - gives traffic vehicles that can be used safely and provide a standard that is worth paying attention to. So we think that if we have the opportunity - and there will be - to buy cars, such as in the area of rolling stock development, we will be able to stand up to the opportunities we have had so far. So I'm going to have to mention Stadler's trains in the first period, which have already been reported and seen in traffic. Motor trains that have been put into service and put into service in the next few months clearly represent improvements and determine the direction of development. We are interested in the development of Hungarian vehicle capacity and vehicle production, and I think that these steps will take place in the next period, whether in Szolnok or Szentendren, we plan to take steps to develop capacity and naturally apply domestic manufacturers where we know. We are not at all against it, so no one in Hungary is interested in the fact that foreign vehicles are engulfing the country, but we are now on the course on which we are not yet fully competitive. The aim is to make domestic vehicle production competitive and to help. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-23-229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member László Teleki, MSZP Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. Will there be justice in Örkény? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-230	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think sin must be persecuted in all its forms. Those who commit a crime will receive the strictest punishment required by the law. Police action must be professional, effective and legal, as only such actions will result. For this reason, this police measure in Örkény is highly controversial, with the outcome of a man being shot. [[15.40]] Of course, the prosecution investigation has already found immediately that the use of weapons was justified, although many issues are still unclear according to the people there and according to the Community portals. Dear Parliament, With all due respect, did Paul Lakatos really have to be shot in self-defense? Why was the use of weapons necessary? Is the threat of an average ax to a firearm a proportionate measure? Why can't a trained police officer in four services catch a man on the run? How could the victim have been exposed to external wounds? You know that the legislation provides for precise measures to prevent the use of weapons. Many people wonder whether these measures have been complied with in the present case. Dear Parliament, We have also heard of death-related police measures, interrogations, production and non-rare acts, and, with one or two exceptions, the prosecution and the police expert consider police measures to be legitimate and legitimate. I'm not calling out racism, I just find it strange that the police usually act with demonstrative methods and prejudice overheated. It is possible to hear about very often unwarranted justifications, horritable criminal penalties, checks and productions against the Roma. Therefore, I would like to ask whether we can count on a really fair and fair, without a doubt, thorough investigation of the oxen police measure, or, on the basis of solidarity and closeness, this matter remains a gray mark of silence and compulsive submission in society. Dear Parliament, I will also forward my questions in writing to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you for your attention, but before I finish, I didn't want Jobbik to accuse me of bias, so let me say a few sentences that I've been asking you questions about Flórian Farkas and members of the government over the past few years, and I've been asking you about the finances you've heard about Flórian Farkas. It is true that the government has not responded in order, just as there is no one who will answer that question. And there I also asked that, if society is not seeing clearly, it would be very important for them to answer questions from the government as to why Flórian Farkas spent those resources, for example, taxpayers' money on car rental or computer shopping, or office furniture, which in society were definitely sending a signal to the government. But I could also say that there are several offices or office buildings of the National Roma Municipality, which, for example, operates on Dohány Street, or we can often find buildings that can be used in cooperation with OCÖ in local government dependence, and yet, for a high price, office purchases have been made. These questions are all instigating society, whether it's a question of oxen or a matter of Flórian Farkas. That is why I ask and suggest that the government should be represented on these issues, because I think that if there are some pressing issues in society that need to be clarified, then not we, the representatives of the opposition, can answer this, but those responsible members of the government who say that they have taken an oath to serve Hungarian society. Therefore, whether in the case of the oxen or in the case of Flórian Farkas, it would be very important for the Hungarian taxpayer to see clearly and clearly, because then he can trust a government. If, on the contrary, we do not see the government in the case of Örkény, now in the most recent case, we see that it is squinting and does not want to say anything. Therefore, I am asking you to reassure the relatives in the case of the ox, to reassure citizens either in Örkény or in the country that the police are always doing their job, in a regular manner, as the law requires, and I think that the Hungarian society will definitely do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right! Clap your hands.]]
u2015-03-23-231	Thank you, Congressman. Do I have to tell you that the title of your speech will be justice in Örkény? And I couldn't find Florian Wolf. So I'm asking you not to demand an immediate response. Thank you. [[László Teleki: I understand. Attila Mesterházy: Nobody answers? Shame!]] Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group, applied for a speech entitled People with Numbers. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-232	Mr President, Dear House, In my mailbox, a very interesting letter came from the group of victims of foreign currency fraud. We are at a time when, according to the government, the banks concerned have been cleared and accounted for against these people, although their communication does not show that they have compensated these people, the victims, because that would not be true, it would be such a stupid lie that no one dared to take on the level of secretary of state, minister or prime minister, but they claim that a fair settlement was made. In this case, I did not present the newspaper articles of the market analysts, not the studies of economists, but the ones sent into my mailbox, once again, received a very clear statement from the Group of Victims of Foreign Exchange Fraud, which contains a hundred cases involved, so a hundred victims undertook to make available to the public the details of their own contract, in particular the amount taken, the millions paid, the statement of the, the balance and consequently the millions stolen. Although the 100 - person sample is not yet considered representative, it will not be so difficult for the interested ones to find 400 more, and then more serious conclusions can be drawn from it. You can see that this 100-year analysis also clearly shows - and mathematically shows - how much Hungarian people have been fooled, how much money has been taken from them unduly; and unfortunately, government measures have assisted this in recent years. During the processing three categories of order of magnitude were formed. Of these, the first group included a range of credible people up to 0-7 million, which were basically car, free-use loans and personal loans. On average, the members of this group recorded HUF 4 million 510 thousand, and since then they have paid HUF 4 million 230 thousand, and according to the bank they still owe HUF 7 million 700 thousand. It can also be seen that the amount unduly taken was more than 70 percent of the original amount. This is the group where we talk about the smallest amounts, I'll say it again. The relevant figures are obviously shared with any interested representative, whether by us or by the civil society organisation concerned. We can already see larger amounts than the second group, which are basically the owners of housing and purchasing loans. The members of the second group thus took on an average loan of HUF 12 million, so far they have paid back an average of HUF 6 million 790 thousand, and according to the bank, they still owe 23 million HUF 570 thousand on average. It can be seen that the ratio of debt shown here to the original amount is already horrific, and that there are multiple repayments still to be made. If you now release 15-20 percent of this in your so-called market HUF, or if you reduce your capital debt or your repayment, these people will still owe almost twice as much as they have been hired, after years of repayment. Although I admit that it affects fewer people, the third group is the proportion of credible people over 20 million. They are especially large housing construction, buying, and, don't forget, business loans. So here, although the amounts seem to be higher, many Hungarian small entrepreneurs who, as employers, were able to make a very serious appearance on the domestic market and are unable to do so after your so-called settlement. The members of this third group recorded an average of HUF 30 million 770 thousand, so far they have already paid back HUF 20 million 580,000, and now they have to hold on even more: according to the bank, they still owe HUF 56 million 410 thousand. [[István Apáti: That's what we should talk about!]] In light of this, your so-called settlement must therefore be evaluated. In light of these, we must observe whether these people have received real compensation, have been accounted for, or have only been granted a dwarf allowance as a result of the pact concluded by the government and the Banking Federation. We right-handers are obviously in favour of the latter position, because the figures show very hard that it is already unrealistic what lies ahead, there are no market conditions, there are no economic conditions, there is no legal climate that would make these very brutal numbers acceptable. And we have to add that this situation is clearly going to happen. So I would also like to reassure the secretary of state, the pro-government representatives, who are sitting here. [[István Apáti: All three!]] It could be a change of government, it could be anything, sooner or later a decent government has to resolve this situation. Now you still have the helm in your hands, obviously the citizens involved are waiting for a solution from you. That is not my request, but my firm call to evaluate these figures and to establish, in light of them, a real action plan that is not based on a pact policy, but is based on real, manly action at last. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]] [[15.50]]
u2015-03-23-233	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2015-03-23-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr Z. Kárpát has spoken on this matter many times over the last five years, which I respect very much, of course, that every time he sought a solution to the problems of foreign exchange lenders, but it does mean something that he could now speak in Parliament only after the agenda and not speak before the agenda or on any other matter. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] This means something, for me it means that we have made some serious progress, and I think that the Fidesz government has found the solution - if it took longer, and it was very difficult and long, because it took years to do so - which the MSZP government has caused over the past eight years. After all, the question of foreign exchange credentials, the highest proportion of Hungarian residents in Europe, in the European Union, is still the political responsibility of the then government, who, even in times of crisis, almost encouraged people to take credit and become indebted. There were families, people who, unfortunately, took credit from several financial institutions, banks. Stopping this and finding a solution is already left to the Fidesz-KDNP government, and I believe that in the last five years, as I have said, if it is difficult and long-term, we have managed to find a solution. We managed to find a solution when the Hungarian economy was not so strong, the Hungarian National Bank did not have enough reserves to participate in the solution, then the National Assembly accepted the institution of the end-payment and exchange rate barrier and recommended it to the stakeholders. More than 300,000 people participated in this, and they escaped the ever - increasing repayment. I think that, following the appropriate judicial decisions, the Parliament has secured the closure of the case of foreign exchange creditors by four laws last year, by the unfair application of the exchange rate gap and the unfairness of unilateral contractual amendments, which the Curia has made in a single law resolution, a law has been adopted that the damage thus caused must be reimbursed to all the foreign currency creditors concerned. Another law stated the settlement, i.e. the reimbursement to customers and the forinting of mortgage loans, which took place on 1 February 2015, and the Fair Banking Act prevented future unfair banking behaviour. What you said in your specific speech, of course, is that if anyone has a dispute with the accounts that they receive these days, or by 30 April, all those involved must receive it, there is obviously an appropriate remedy for this. First, you need to turn to your bank and clarify whether the future repayment, i.e. the reduction of repayment - because in all cases it decreases to 5-40 percent - is an appropriate error in that calculation. So I would like to stress that for each foreign exchange loaner there will be a 5-40 percent reduction in the repayment after the settlement. Even if it cannot agree with its bank, it is possible, of course, for the foreign exchange creditor to have further legal remedies. I think that everything can be dissatisfied, of course, but I say that from a social point of view, the government and the Parliament have found a solution to the problem of foreign exchange credentials, not by accident, asking for help and advice from other European countries on this issue. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-235	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address:. with the title of "Intellect." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Based on the results of research that came to light last week, it can be said that intelligence has a very good effect when mothers breastfeed their children for a longer period of time. The research: in order to avoid the appearance that other influencing factors might distort the results, 3,500 infants were subjected to this experiment. The 3,500 infants were born from different educational mothers, families in different material situations, and children born with different weights, these studies were conducted in Brazil. Just because the obvious fact that breast milk has a positive effect on the child's intelligence and development in order to demonstrate the survival of the child in adulthood has been studied for 30 years, the study has also looked at 3,500 children and adults as adults. They came to the conclusion and to the conclusion that those who were breast-feeding for a longer period of time and who were breast-feeding for longer and who were on the social ladder were also at a higher level, and that their financial situation, their earnings, were also higher than those who had taken very little or no time at all. This draws attention to the fact that this issue is important, and it is important for us to deal with this Brazilian research result, whether here or in Hungary. In Hungary today, for example, we find that while there is state aid for formulae, there is State aid for the supply of formulae to mothers, and there is no such aid to mothers, whether it is different teas, substances or aids that help them to breast-feed. I believe that the principle of proportionality should also be maintained here, and I even think that since the context on this issue has now become clear, it would be up to the government to launch a campaign on this issue in the interests of the future generation. Whether on TV or in prime time, this should be what a giant poster campaign should be campaigned about rather than a lot of other nonsense, because it doesn't matter what knowledge our offspring, growing generations know, what basics, what kind of brain development, what kind of gray stock they put themselves into life, and how Hungary performs in international competition. Not to mention the negative practice that many mothers experience when they turn to their pediatrician, when they are having breast-feeding problems, or if their milk is temporarily dwindling, I would say that it is generally common, and I would say that it is a very common phenomenon that the pediatrician immediately prescribes the formula, prompts the mother to replace natural breast milk with the formula. Here, the government should encourage children's doctors to offer breast-feeding, milk-feeding or even milk-feeding medicines, herbal teas, herbs or tools to mothers, because breast milk is not only important for the development of intelligence. The research has also shown that long - chain saturated fatty acids found in breast milk can lead to this result. But not only because of the development of intelligence, it is important for breast milk and breast feeding, but also for the mental and psychological development of the child, because this constant physical contact, regular physical contact, helps the child to undergo healthier spiritual development, so that a young and later adult with a healthier spirit, less prone to deviantism, can grow out of it, and thus be a useful member of the country, as a more intelligent member of the country, can put more into the joint, and serve the development of our country better with the skills thus acquired. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.00]]
u2015-03-23-237	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech on 18 points for the development of transport in Balaton. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-238	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, especially since the collapse of neoliberal economic policy in 2008, the issue of social mobility has been mentioned many times and many times. All racial research shows that the pathways of ascension within society have been paralyzed and stopped. The very routes that allowed many members of the current government, for example, to eject from a poor family to the political elite. We have proposed many ways of addressing this problem to the government, from a multi-key tax system with tens of thousands of small and medium-income earners to new green solutions to job creation. Now I would like to draw attention to another aspect, geographical mobility, i.e. transport, namely the transport of Lake Balaton and its surroundings, the Balaton Uplands. The inhabitants of the lakeside and the Balaton Uplands and the local civilians, such as Sallee Barbara, have been struggling for years to reach, and even exceed, the time of regime change. Indeed, the transport of the Lake Balaton and the Balaton Highlands is bleeding from a thousand wounds, the past governments and the Orbán government will also settle for this quiet decline. However, Lake Balaton is not only a tourist destination, but it is also a agglomerational residence of half a million people, not only in summer, but also in winter. And the Balaton Uplands form an inseparable, organic unit of the lake. Most of the Veszprém County people work in Balaton tourism, and many tourists visit the witness mountains, the wine region, Tapolca or the Sümeg castle. The development, comfort and attractiveness of public transport thus makes life easier for locals, going to work and going to school, attracts tourists, creating new jobs and increasing salaries. It is also good for the settlements of Balaton, because it enriches the tourist offer in the Balaton Uplands with substantial programs, which could be available for more people with good transport. While Fidesz, Jobbik and Socialists make the Veszprém 3 constituency a political battlefield, we believe in the responsible campaign in the work for the people. Civilian activist Sallee Barbara is the candidate for LMP, not today, nor yesterday did she start work for this region, the 18-point package for transport development. It reflects the views of local people, creates jobs and improves living standards. We also urge, together with Sallee Barbara and her lips, Tapolca, the repair and development of rail, bus and bicycle transport; the creation of a single pass around Lake Balaton, which is valid for trains, buses and ships, a discount for commuters who go to work by public transport; coordination and compliance with timetables. A flexible timetable is needed in bus transport to respond to real needs. The replacement of the bus park cannot wait as much as the construction of secure, covered stops everywhere. Local benefits linked to events supporting internal tourism improve quality of life, increase the population retention of the countryside, while also giving a great boost to cultural life. The railway is in a ignominious state throughout the country, but the decline is particularly spectacular around Lake Balaton and the Balaton Uplands. We need a regular and serious agenda, real connections between the south and the north. By cleaning cars more frequently, setting up new cars, you have to make the railway more attractive than an opportunity. This would be equally important not only for the people on the lake, but also for Tapolca, for example. And if the railway can be accepted even for a western tourist, then the MÁV can actively participate in the promotion of tourist events and locations. This will create another positive feedback, which will again create jobs and raise salaries. Last but not least, the conditions for cycling and tourism also need to be improved by connecting the areas of Veszprém county north of Lake Balaton. I therefore propose these points to the attention of my fellow pro-government Members. They seem to be reluctant to pay attention to the legitimate complaints and expectations of the locals. Following Sallee Barbara's public transport package, it would be time to start the action, as tens of thousands of people are waiting for it. Thank you for your attention. I would like to point out that I have received an answer in writing from Secretary of State László Tasó. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-23-239	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament, as President-in-Office, that the representative of the NFM has informed me that he has delivered the written reply of the wallet in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, has also applied for a post-meeting speech:. They are still burning the floor. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-23-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the spring, we often see the burning-smoking border. In the middle of March, I had the next view. The lawn burned on both sides of the highway, a dozen firefighters watched the fire spread, but they didn't interfere in the road-bound area, let the area burn. At the edge of the area, the already useless straw bales from previous years were stacked side by side, and for some reason they were not used. The fire has reached these, too. The next day, on my way back, these round bales were still smoked. Compared to this, a few days earlier, on 5 March, the new national fire regulations came into force, with 225 of them. Paragraph 1 of the Act states that:. Unless otherwise provided for in the legislation, open-air incineration of waste generated in connection with plant production and in the use of residential properties is prohibited. The definite ban is very timely. While we are constantly talking about climate change, which, by the way, threatens agriculture, plant organic residues are burned on thousands of hectares per year, alongside greenhouse gas emissions. The emissions of micro-contaminants pose a major risk to human health. According to a Swiss study, a large pile of avar burns for six hours generate as much dust as 250 buses during 24 hours of continuous transport. According to a study by the European Environment Agency, 16 200 people die prematurely every year in Hungary due to particulate pollution, who would otherwise be able to live ten years longer. In addition to polluting the environment, combustion is a huge waste of energy and life - giving food. We waste about 20-30 gigajoules of energy on an acre of grassland left on a parlagma without recovery. In addition, burned plant organic remains are missing for the soil. On the one hand, incineration deprives the soil surface of the soil cover and on the other hand prevents the possibility of the organic material being formed by humus. But not only does it prevent, but it burns even a small amount of humus property on the ground, along with soil-dwelling organisms that cannot tolerate heat production. While we complain about the loss of biodiversity, fire on the surface and near-surface soils destroys the life of life, making life unable to renew the soil. The fireman will stop the fire if he sees human life or wealth threatened, but we all lack the knowledge that human life and wealth can be threatened not only directly but also by the indirect waste of our ecological wealth. In the case I have referred to, there is no direct injury, but an indirect injury, and the intervention has failed, despite the fact that Article 39/2011 does not apply. The BM Regulation lays down the general rules for firefighting and technical rescue activities of the fire department. [[16.10]] "If not otherwise provided in the legislation, it is prohibited to open-air combustion of standing vegetation, tarló, waste generated in connection with crop production and the use of residential property. The definite ban is very timely. While we are constantly talking about climate change, which, by the way, threatens agriculture, plant organic residues are burned on thousands of hectares per year, alongside greenhouse gas emissions. The emissions of micro-contaminants pose a major risk to human health. According to a Swiss study, a large pile of avar burns for six hours generate as much dust as 250 buses during 24 hours of continuous transport. According to a study by the European Environment Agency, 16 200 people die prematurely every year in Hungary due to particulate pollution, who would otherwise be able to live ten years longer. In addition to polluting the environment, combustion is a huge waste of energy and life - giving food. We waste about 20-30 gigajoules of energy on an acre of grassland left on a parlagma without recovery. In addition, burned plant organic remains are missing for the soil. On the one hand, incineration deprives the soil surface of the soil cover and on the other hand prevents the possibility of the organic material being formed by humus. But not only does it prevent, but it burns even a small amount of humus property on the ground, along with soil-dwelling organisms that cannot tolerate heat production. While we complain about the loss of biodiversity, fire on the surface and near-surface soils destroys the life of life, making life unable to renew the soil. The fireman will stop the fire if he sees human life or wealth threatened, but we all lack the knowledge that human life and wealth can be threatened not only directly but also by the indirect waste of our ecological wealth. In the case I have referred to, there is no direct injury, but an indirect injury, and the intervention has failed, despite the fact that Article 39/2011 does not apply. The BM Regulation lays down the general rules for firefighting and technical rescue activities of the fire department.(16.10) I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The fire department shall ensure the deployment of the forces and means available and necessary for the execution of the task, immediately withdraw to the site, eliminate the danger of life, prevent further spread of the fire, extinguish the fire professionally, perform the technical rescue and carry out the tasks necessary to carry out the fire inspection. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In other words, without good awareness, it is unlikely to be expected that the new regulation will be implemented effectively with regard to open-air incineration of waste. This lack of awareness also implies the indication of this paragraph of the regulation, unless otherwise provided by law. Of course, you have a different policy. As soon as the next paragraph of the regulation provides for a loophole, a fire ignition may be carried out outside the area in 10 hectares of detail, with the permission of the fire protection authority. In addition, in the internal area, the local government may set periods for garden incineration. The regulation imposes fairly low fines compared to the level of environmental damage, but this is of no interest if the causes of outside fires are generally unknown. Finally, it would be essential for all stakeholders to be aware that the indirect damage to outside fires is much more significant than being permissible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-23-241	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the first day of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 30 March 2015. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:12 p.m.]]
