u2015-10-08-0	Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna start our meeting today. The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Loyal Dezső notaries will be here to help me. Dear Parliament, It follows from the B/29 on the financial year 2011-31 May 2011 to 31 December 2011 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. B/39 on the financial year 2012 to 31 December 2012 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund B/486 on the financial year 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. B/5038 on the financial year 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. B/5040 on the financial year of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund from 1 January 2015 to 31 January 2015. H/6382, H/6371, H/6374, H/6377. and H/6380. Joint general discussion of the proposals for decisions tabled by the Economic Committee until closure. I declare that the State Audit Office has prepared background materials for the presentation, which are available to interested parties on the website. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the reports.
u2015-10-08-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund was set up by CLIV 2010. It was established by law for the management of the assets of the members of the public fund crossing the public system from private pension funds. The main declared objective of the fund was to reduce public debt, which it did. Under the provisions of the relevant law, the proceeds from the sale of assets forming the assets of the fund had to be paid into the budget or used to reduce public debt. In addition, the sovereign debt reduction was also achieved directly through the involvement of the Hungarian sovereign debt taken over. During its operation, the fund received some HUF 3000 billion in cash, sovereign debt and other securities resulted in a direct debt reduction of more than HUF 2000 billion, in addition to which the fund paid nearly HUF 500 billion into the budget. Overall, debt was reduced by HUF 2500 billion by the fund's activities. The debt reduction target was met by NYRA, with an effect of more than HUF 280 billion in interest savings for the State. Overall, this amounts to a direct and indirect debt ratio reduction of almost 10 percentage points. While the fund contributed directly and indirectly to the reduction of public debt with an additional HUF 280 billion interest savings, the former private pension fund system only absorbed the resources of public finances. Private pension funds collected nearly HUF 2560 billion from customers in the period 1998-2010. This money would have flown into the social security pension fund during the period before the age of private pension funds, so it would have been the revenue of the State. During the period 1998-2010, the average annual contributions of private pension fund members correspond to an average of 0.9 per cent of the annual GDP in question, i.e. an average annual general government deficit of 1 percentage point could have been more favourable each year for the above period, i.e. a profit-based annual government deficit. In the case of lower government debt issuance by the Government Debt Management Centre, we could have observed a lower increase in government debt. With the above figures, the government debt could have been 72 per cent of GDP instead of nearly 81 per cent of GDP at the end of 2010. The continued lower public debt is considered to be less risky on the market, so financing with lower interest rates could have been an additional saving. The members of the Central European region with a debt ratio lower than that of Hungary receive funding with lower debt yields. In addition to the debt reduction objective, the assets received increased the state's assets. From the remaining part of the portfolio MNV Zrt. transferred financial assets in excess of HUF 260 billion, including strategic holdings, to the property of the Hungarian State in three phases. under the management of assets. The Fund has also completed real return payments to those crossing private pension funds. The payment of real returns at the private pension funds made the result of the fund worse, consumed some HUF 230 billion of the funds received, but this money did not disappear, the passing members increased the family register of Hungarian households. Dear Parliament, The fund carried out its activities with due care and care, in full compliance with the law. However, it has to be seen that private pension funds have delivered portfolios of more than 400 assets from 32 markets denominated in 14 different currencies, which have in many cases been shown to contain many highly problematic assets. Private pension funds have invested their customers' money for their carefree retirement years in securities such as Greece's government bonds or E-Star's bonds. Since the Greek State was close to insolvency, in 2012 the forced bond exchange caused a significant loss in this part of the portfolio due to the debt restructuring of the Greek government bond. E-Star was also in a close-up situation, with its creditors agreeing with the company to exchange E-Star bonds for shares. As a result, the Fund had to bear significant losses, which occurred because private pension funds initially invested irresponsiblely in private pension funds. [[9.10]] On the other hand, the fund did not give or buy the assets, like private pension funds, but sold the assets received under legal regulations under the most favourable conditions, thus avoiding putting people's money at the slightest risk. This was done at a significantly cheaper rate than the private pension fund charges. The cost related to the operation of the fund was HUF 1.3 billion, and more than half of it, HUF 0.7 billion, was paid by the transaction fee, which, while accountingly, was a cost to the fund, but these expenses were the revenues of the public finances, i.e. actually spent HUF 0.6 billion on its operation. This is not even close to the operating costs of private pension funds, which totalled HUF 150 billion between 1998 and 2011. This means that while the fund cost less than HUF 0.2 billion per year, pension funds spent 100 times this, almost HUF 17 billion per year on their own operation. The State Supervisory Board of the then Financial Institutions found in several studies that private pension funds often worked with other similar organisations - voluntary pension funds, investment fund managers - compared to a fairly high member fee that is difficult to justify on the basis of the activity. The PSF fined several private pension funds for this. Dear Parliament, It is also worth considering the average performance of private pension funds. The most obvious is the comparison with sovereign debt market yields. Between January 1998 and December 2010, an average Hungarian worker who holds a gross average salary according to the year in question, if he was a member of a private pension fund throughout the period above, paid nearly HUF 1.7 million to private banks. This figure increased to around HUF 2.3 million on average by the end of 2010. On the other hand, if this average employee had always invested his monthly private pension fund membership fee in government bonds, the savings would be worth HUF 2.5 million today, i.e. some HUF 200,000 more. In terms of yield, the difference is even greater, it is 800,000 instead of 600,000 forints, or more than 30 percent. So, overall, from an investment and asset management point of view, the funds could not have been considered an efficient investment, even with the country's most risk-free investment, the Hungarian sovereign debt, a higher return could have been achieved. The contributors would have been better off with a simple sovereign debt account. During the 13 years of their existence, the sector as a whole produced a real return of minus 0.2 per cent, according to the 2011 calculation of PSZF, so it would hardly have been possible to expect carefree retirement years for cashier members, some 3 million people. The sale of securities in the fund's portfolio and MNV Zrt. was transferred to the European Parliament by the end of 2013. As of the end of 2013, the Fund had only cash in cash, and the fund's function required at the time of its creation was fulfilled in 2014. A further substantial debt reduction instrument was subsequently not dealt with, and therefore its maintenance was no longer justified. On January 31, 2015, the fund ceased to exist, when all its outstanding funds, HUF 119.7 million, were transferred to the central budget. During the operation of the fund, it has repeatedly become the centre of attention of the media, usually in a negative light. At this time, the emphasis was often placed on the fact that all the initial assets of the fund, worth nearly HUF 3 000 billion, have now run out. These calculations ignore the fact that this money was used by the Fund in accordance with its statutory objectives. So direct government debt reduction: HUF 459 billion, budget payments: HUF 459 billion, transfer of securities from strategically important companies to the state: HUF 264 billion, real return and payment of member contributions: HUF 231 billion. The interest rate savings due to debt reduction amounted to HUF 284 billion between 2011-2013. They represent some HUF 3254 billion, so the money did not just disappear, but helped the state operate and manage. I would also like to thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you to discuss and accept this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-08-2	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur for the proposals for a decision.
u2015-10-08-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, 28 September 2015, the Economic Committee discussed the report of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund for the years 2011-2015. The Hungarian State is the CLIV of 2010 on the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund and certain amendments to the law relating to the conduct of the free choice of pension funds. it has provided its citizens with the possibility to return to the state pension insurance scheme. As part of the agreement, the portfolio of members wishing to return was transferred by private pension funds to the fund, which was devoted to debt reduction. I would like to stress here that private pension payments were not private savings, but compulsory payments, which had previously come directly to the state register. So all that has happened is that the original state of retirement has returned to normal and that pensions have been restored to safety. The portfolio taken over from private pension funds was rather complex, which included more than 400 assets from the market in 32 countries denominated in 14 currencies, which in many cases were extremely problematic, such as Greek government bonds. Since the Greek State was close to insolvency, in 2012 the forced bond exchange due to the restructuring of the Greek government bond debt caused a decisive loss in this part of the portfolio. It also shows how irresponsible private pension funds were to manage the wealth entrusted to them. [[9.20]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the committee's meeting, opposition opinions that the HUF 3000 billion from private pension funds payments have now run out or disappeared have been re-dissolved. This is simply not true, because the money did not disappear, but was used directly and indirectly to reduce the public debt in line with the statutory target of some HUF 2500 billion. With the help of the Fund, Hungary, among others, repaid the last penny of the IMF loan in August 2013. This is a significant achievement that has contributed to our financial independence and stability. In addition, the interest and real returns of private pension fund members were fully compensated for HUF 231 billion. The remaining HUF 264 billion was converted into the transfer to the State of securities of strategically important firms. The majority of the committee agreed with Mr László Balogh, Deputy State Secretary, that the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund was given a historical job, when it was commissioned to manage the assets accumulated in the second pillar. The Fund carried out its statutory tasks with care and due diligence in the context of often stormy international money market conditions, paid payments, such as real return payments to private bank members, and properly executed the accounts with the cashier in full compliance with the legal requirements. Overall, we have managed to deliver not only economic but also political promises. Since 2010, the Hungarian pension system has been protected, and we can provide pensioners with a stable source in the long term. In view of the above, the majority of the Economic Committee has accepted the accounts of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund and the attached proposals for a resolution by 10 votes in favour, 1 against, and I propose that the Committee be accepted by the Honourable Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-08-4	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Zsolt Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-08-5	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The accounts of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund lie before us for the years 2011-15. The reason why this debate is taking place now and the reason why it is appropriate to discuss these reports at the same time is because it is a large-scale process, the period from May 2011 to January 2015. Besides, as we know, in the meantime, the fund has fulfilled its mission and has ceased. I would like to remember at the very beginning the result that it is not possible to stress enough that in August 2013 Hungary repaid the IMF loan that was taken up in 2008. In the case of a public fund that is responsible for debt reduction, we must mention this fact, and this time again we are grateful to the organisations that have taken part in this effort. It is also worth recalling that this fund managed the pension assets that had previously been in the management of private pension funds, but was far from safe. It can also be seen from the outset that it was the right decision to spend this wealth largely on a reduction in public debt and, to a lesser extent, to meet other obligations. These reports are also evidence that this huge amount of money has been spent transparently. But what led to the foundation? In October 2010, when the Government presented its second action plan, it was first announced that the Cabinet should also review the expenditure side of the pension system. At the time, the Prime Minister said that it could not be maintained that the state would spend 30 billion a month because of the double pension system, so it was both public and private. It was then decided to suspend these payments until 31 December 2011 and to establish the legal conditions for withdrawing from private banks into the public pension scheme. Two weeks later, on 25 October 2010, Parliament adopted two laws concerning private pension funds. For the first 14 months, he suspended the payment of membership fees in order to keep the 30 billion HUF monthly in the state pension fund. The other legislation abolished the compulsory private pension fund membership and created an opportunity to withdraw from the public system. Another bill published on 29 November 2010 stated that the assets of those who withdraw from private pension funds will be collected by the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, which will be operated by the Government Debt Management Centre. The Act was adopted by the Parliament on 13 December, so it became final that those remaining in the private pension system could declare their intention to remain until 31 January 2011. The law therefore established the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, whose assets were provided by the portfolio of private pension fund members returning to the public system. The assets could only be used to reduce public debt or to make budgetary payments. The fund's income came from the sale or return of assets belonging to the property, and it did not have to pay taxes or taxes. The fund is managed by the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. It was owned by the main decision-making body, the five-member governing body, of which the President and one member were appointed by the Minister for Public Finance, one member by the Minister for Pension Policy and one member by the Minister for Coordination of Government Activities. The Board was also a member of the head of the pension insurance body responsible for the management of the Pension Insurance Fund. On 18 May 2011, the governing body of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, composed of five members, held its inaugural meeting. The fund started operating on 31 May. After 97 percent of the members of the private pension fund, some 3 million people, did not say that they would stay at the cash register by the end of January 2011, they returned to the social security system and the savings they had accumulated were managed by the state. The Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund took over a total of HUF 2946 billion of assets from the cash registers in early June 2011, mainly sovereign debt, shares and shares. The government debt purchased by the cashiers was automatically destroyed, as they represented the debt of the State. The remaining assets were returned to the cashier in July with a real return of HUF 216 billion, which they paid off to the members who quit. If, since its existence in 2011, we summarize what almost 3000 billion forints have gone to, then we can say that it was mainly intended for the original purposes. Then, on the basis of the government's statements, the government will reduce the public debt from the assets received. If we sum up the data of the documents on the ÁKK side, it turns out that HUF 2036.8 billion, or 69.2 percent of the total assets, were in debt reduction, of which 1354 billion were still paid in June 2011. Following this, the largest one-off debt reduction amount was paid in November 2012 for a value of 172,3 billion. In addition to the debt reduction, HUF 233.2 billion, i.e. 7.9 percent of the assets were spent on real returns, 201 billion, 6.8 percent were transferred to the Hungarian National Asset Manager for the purposes of the basic debt reduction, and last but not least between October and December 2011, the fund also paid HUF 522.8 billion to the budget, of which it received 70 billion back. One thing that is often forgotten is that due to the fact that, between 2011 and 2013, the CESC balance could improve in the public debt and had an effect on interest income, the demonstrable interest income resulted in an impact of HUF 283 billion, so the net profit of HUF 230 billion can be shown in the operation between 2011 and January 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would like to briefly recall the actual political cause, the channelling of private pension contributions and the motivations behind this decision. [[9.30]] In 2011, the government transformed the pension system, eliminating the private pension fund system, which was practically irresponsible in dealing with some of the people's pension payments. This was also seen from the scandalously low real yields during that period. Today, perhaps no one will dispute that the public pension system is much better for everyone, because you can be sure that you will receive a public pension, and that the value of your future pension will not depend on market machinations. In addition, the need for restructuring was due to the fact that the lack of a pension fund at the time amounted to about HUF 800 billion, which threatened the payment of the current pensions. Let us not forget, however, that the Pension Insurance Fund had to pay not only old-age pensions, but also an invalidity pension above and below the age limit, which increased the pension fund's deficit by more than HUF 200 billion at the time. It was no accident, therefore, that the government had transformed the system of wasteful and in many cases illegal pensions, as well as the system of invalid pensions giving rise to abuse. The amount of transferred property, contributions and contributions increased the pension from the state pillar. According to the previous system, the members of the mixed system would have received three quarters of the pension from the state pillar, the remainder from the private pillar. The private pillar held a quarter of the contributions, so depending on the success of the investments, the part from here could have been the missing one quarter, the more or less. Of course, the ratio also depends on how the state part changes. In the course of the pension reform, 25 percent of the public pension system was redirected to private management, but unfortunately, the various EU and budgetary rules did not allow the public retirement account to be included, more specifically as a debt-enhancing factor. It is also important that, according to the State Audit Office of Financial Institutions, over 13 years, the average performance and average real return of these cashiers was minus 0.2 per cent. If this money had not been accumulated so far by private banks in the second pillar, at the end of 2010, it would not have been 80 per cent of the public debt-to-GDP ratio, but only 71 per cent. Dear House, Overall, we can say, and in this I share the opinion of State Secretary László Balogh, the Pension Reform Fund carried out a historic task when it fulfilled its mandate to manage the assets accumulated in the second pillar. This unprecedented task was carried out very precisely, very carefully, in my view, under the often changing international financial market conditions. In the end, he handed over the remaining HUF 232 billion to the National Asset Manager as required by the law. In total, it was able to produce a positive result. Please consider these aspects in the debate. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-08-6	Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. In this context, I give the floor first to József Tobias, who will give the speech about the pulpitus.
u2015-10-08-7	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, political parties have always been in a common position over the past decades, and that is to guarantee the safety of old age and the sustainable pension system for a decent living. This principle was kicked out in 2010 by the Orbán government. Fidesz self-respect is false when it wants to talk to society about the system of national cooperation, while they already knew that they do not want to talk and do not want to cooperate with society. This was particularly experienced by the 3.2 million people from whom you took their private pension savings. And their plan was carried out by a series of misdirections. There is relatively little talk about the circumstances of their decision to overthrow private pension funds. Of course, we have heard that the international situation, the international economic conditions, the European Union, we have heard that there is a need to choose between evil, stock exchange, security-giving state pensions. Now we know exactly what the truth is. You have tried to ensure that the European Union institutions do not have to include public finances transferred to the cashier in the budget deficit and public debt. Hungary's economic and financial situation would not have improved by anything in reality, but you would have had enough cosmetic work to ensure that your only chance of undertaking a single-key election in the electoral campaign could be achieved. But let us ask what would have happened if the European Union had approved the request of your Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán and György Matolcsy. We probably shouldn't be arguing today about whether there are evil stock exchanges, whether the government should act as a savior, because this would all have been organized. But since the European Union has not agreed to your request, they have chosen a different method. People were misled when, speaking about securing pensions, you put the protection of people first and foremost into the real issue of the matter. While there's a real truth. You needed 3,000 billion forints. You were led by this purpose when your laws were presented. At the time of the parliamentary hearing of the bill, the representative of the government said so. The government has no interest in maintaining the current pension system. This is where the political and social consensus of the last quarter of a century has been cancelled. In order to maintain a sustainable, predictable pension system and a life-saving pension system after reaching retirement age in all circumstances. The decision was made in 1998, which was not easy under the circumstances at the time. It was then that the pension system had to be changed in Hungary, because it seemed that it would not be sustainable. The Parliament has established that three-pillar system, trusting that it will create a sustainable long-term financing model on firm legs. As a result, for 13 years people have collected their savings in an individual, named account. And they were in solidarity with the people in the state pension system. For 13 years, the country has sacrificed to benefit from this model. Then, just a few years before the system was launched, you guys took it all out. That destroyed 13 years of his work. You said the conversion of 98 was a mistake. What I'm saying is that the real mistake you made was that the system was abolished just before the first payments could begin. In the first years of the three-pillar system, when the first Orbán government was in power, they insisted on the model. True, it was already slightly modified, but in essence it was allowed to function. Then on what basis does anyone now call the Parliament's earlier decision a failure without expressing their own responsibility? As a result of the government's presentation, the majority of you voted in favour in December 2010 to take down the assets managed by private pension funds. You didn't give me an opportunity, you gave me an ultimatum. They've sent an ultimatum to 3 million people: if you contradict us, you'll opt out of the state pension system. This was a historic moment, ladies and gentlemen, because there has not been a government for a quarter of a century that has specifically blackmailed 3 million people by law, putting them before an election where there is no individual decision. Either he adapts or he loses everything. You're losing your future. During the Orbán government, of course, we were able to live through this, and the same beginning, since then we have had to live more times. Compared to this, Gabriella Selmeczi, then prime minister of pension protection, spoke of amazing successes, because 96 percent of the people did not dare to contradict the government. It's peculiar to you that this is a success. But we can't just walk away from another Fidesz lie, the case of individual accounts. In December 2010, Parliament adopted a political statement on the protection of members of compulsory private pension funds. To date, I do not understand that you, when you know there is no solution, are constantly rushing to accept a political statement. They did not submit a law on how they intended to resolve the promise that they had made in the declaration: to guarantee the institution of individual account management to former private pension fund members crossing the public pension scheme, not only suggesting, but also promising that in the future the pension contributions of contributors will be credited to individual accounts. [[9.40]] I note in silence that if you look at the minutes of those parliamentary debates, you can read exactly from the opposition that we knew it was not possible at the time, because a pension system which is not based on uniform normative rules, but only gives someone an individual account, while the majority of it is kept in the state distribution office, it seemed to be a Bornírt idea in itself. However, this alone has not come to an end, as in December 2010 the pensioner, Gabriella Selmeczi, also said: "It is planned that every contributor will have an individual account within a year and a half. Antal Rogán said that the individual invoice can be created next spring. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The correct functioning of any pension system is based on an accurate registration system, and we are working to create it, said Minister Zoltán Balog in 2012. Even in 2013, so even two years ago, Antal Rogán claimed that previous pension contributions would be credited in 2013. If that's all we can do, then there's only one lesson: you've misled people. Prime Minister Gabriella Selmeczi did not tell the truth, Zoltán Balog did not tell the truth, and Antal Rogán, your newly elected Minister of Propaganda lied. The reality is, however, that none of their promises have been fulfilled in the last five years. On the other hand, they managed to spend 3000 billion forints to the last penny, although it is not without scandal. Before we give great praise to the governing body of the debt management fund, I would like to say that it started its operation much sooner than the government regulation establishing it - that is all about the rule of law. The second is that the Board itself authorised ÁKK Zrt. on 18 May 2011. its CEO for the development of a detailed sales strategy. But this was not implemented and adopted until the end of October. This means that for five months without a strategy, without any concept, you have spent 450 billion forints of wealth. In spite of the fund's desire to use or use the management of a risk management service since May 2011, it was only able to do so from the end of August, without expert support to policy-making, at the end of which it was able to spend another HUF 400 billion of assets outside the sovereign debt. In addition to this irregularity, it would be worth considering, my fellow Members - but I am not surprised at that - that, in fact, behind your appointment practices and the principle of a cheaper state, the fact that Nátran Roland, who was Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy of Matolcsy, served as Chairman of the governing body of the Fund for five months in an incompatible manner, is likely to result in his being appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Eximbank as a result of this work. The apparently illegal job accumulation could have had no consequences, while another hundred billion were sold during these five months. It would also be worth a thorough examination of how Unicredit Bank could be selected for the management of foreign securities with more than HUF 500 billion without applying. Ladies and gentlemen, We can see that you have not only lied to people, you have not only given ultimatums to the cashiers, but you have spent the last 13 years of citizens' savings with a series of scandals and irregularities. It is worth checking to see if their decision can be protected afterwards. Zsolt Becsó, the lead speaker of Fidesz, has just demonstrated this to protect the government's decision. According to government statements, the establishment of the fund, the protection of the pensions of members of private pension funds, the introduction of individual pension accounts, the reduction of public debt, how have all these objectives been achieved? As we can see, the government has not fulfilled its earlier promises to this day, so we don't really have to waste any more of this, because you can't protect it either. However, to say a few words about the third element of public debt. The gross government debt-to-GDP ratio has already increased to over HUF 25 000 billion on 2 October 2015, corresponding to 75.6 percent of GDP expected this year. So much for numbers. In conclusion, there is no economic miracle. The budget deficit was reduced only because you no longer have to replace the membership fee allocated to the cashier in the pension fund, because you led tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who did not have their pension rights created or taken from it, the budget holes were clogged, and compared to the promises, they did not turn the whole thing into debt cuts. The question should therefore be asked whether it was worthwhile to bring down private pension funds. According to fidesz claims, yes, because they traded people's savings. Interesting, honourable Members, if so, how could there have been real returns that have been paid to people? Is it okay if the government wants to stock the money? Actually, it didn't get better, but it got a lot worse. In 2011, the Fidesz government accumulated a loss of minus 10 percent over a year in terms of the assets received, which represents a loss of 100 billion; I repeat: 100 billion. By doing so, the state has far below the performance of private pension funds. In 2012, the eight cash registers remained on their feet, without exception, produced a serious return. In fact, the cashier has well overstated the inflation rate of 5% and the bank's return. Most of them achieved more than 15 percent. On the other hand, the state was only able to produce fast - running wealth and scandals. Dear Parliament, In the end, the government has managed to weaken the pension system significantly. If it's a historical fact, I wouldn't be so proud of it. Forints 3000 billion are missing from the future at the moment. This money must be managed by public finances, not in decades, but in a few years. The Hungarian Socialist Party rejects this irresponsible, unthinkable policy, which put the safety of three million people in old age at risk for their own political, day-to-day interests, and the report of the Pension Reform Fund confirms precisely that this vote is not acceptable to us in any form. We cannot identify ourselves with the fact that they have learned to take, but to give, at least to make the future safe in the pension system, it has not appeared in your bill in recent years, and you forget to remember today. But remember, three million people remember exactly what your laws have done to their future. Thank you.
u2015-10-08-8	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, the next lead speaker.
u2015-10-08-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, According to government statements, I would like to emphasise these three sentences. The purpose of the Fund was to protect the pensions of members of compulsory private pension funds, to introduce individual pension accounts and to promote government debt reduction objectives. All three statements have a tremendous significance. In my opinion, the Government has not fulfilled its earlier promises to this day, and the government has failed to achieve its objectives. As my fellow Member Tóbias pointed out, the gross government debt-to-GDP ratio increased to HUF 25 167,6 billion on 2 October, and this is the rate corresponding to 75.6 percent of Hungarian GDP, and this is the latest figure of the Hungarian National Bank. Let us look at the impact of the functioning of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund on the development of public debt. Pursuant to the law adopted in 2010, the fund took over assets, assets, and assets, which constitute a portfolio of natural persons, the private pension fund member who withdrew from the social security pension scheme, the cost of which was HUF 2945.3 billion on 31 May 2011. This amount is about 10 percent of the gross domestic product, and by the end of 2011, the fund was only HUF 684.3 billion and HUF 316 billion by the end of 2012. [[9.50]] By the end of 2013, the fund practically spent the assets it had entrusted to it. The ÁKK Zrt. According to the information available on its website, the Fund has spent a total of HUF 2034.9 billion in debt reduction since 2011, i.e. 6.7 percent of GDP, paid HUF 459 billion in central budget and allocated public funds, and paid a real return of HUF 233.2 billion, as my fellow Member pointed out above. It is noteworthy that the fund sold the securities in its assets with a loss of HUF 18.4 billion compared to its cost in 2011 and a loss of HUF 40.17 billion in 13, and only in one year, in 2012, they managed to achieve a surplus of HUF 5.8 billion in the sale of the securities. I do not wish to repeat the GDP figures that my fellow Member Tobias told me, but it is obvious and it can be concluded that with the help of the Fund, the government has spent almost 3 million people's retirement savings, which amount to nearly 10 per cent of GDP, for pension purposes, without a substantial reduction in public debt, on a sustainable path, but also without the savings of members who have returned to the social security system. Plus, the promises for individual pension accounts have not been fulfilled, and I would also like to come back to this with great emphasis. The individual account promised initially in verbal and political statements, as well as in a government decision, in writing, was a lie, since pension rights in today's pension system are not linked to any account; it is a pay-as-you-go system where we pay the benefits of the right holders in the following month. There is a constantly modern system of records that has been in existence for several decades, on the basis of which, for example, service times are treated. It seems that billions are being spent on the introduction of so-called individual accounts in IT developments, but there is no trace of this, only money is being spent. By the way, according to the latest figures, the Orbán government withdrew some HUF 869 billion from the pension system during its five-year anniversary. As I mentioned, the provisions laid down in 2011 were also liars, which gave the impression that a so-called social security individual account would be created in which payments, including former private pension fund contributions, would be held, since they knew then that the amounts received would not be set aside for the pension system. They just wanted to spend this money. Dear House, I will continue to address regulatory shortcomings, malfunctions in operation, and I would also like to comment on deposit management. Let's look at the regulatory shortcomings. The Act establishing the Fund entered into force, the establishment of the Fund on 22 December 2010 and the 2011 CLIV on the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund with detailed rules for the activities of the Fund and amending certain laws relating to the conduct of the free choice of pension funds. More than five months have passed between the creation of a Government Decree of 7/2011 on the implementation of Law No 7/2011. At the same time, the Fund's governing body started operating without the implementing regulation governing its activities on 18 May 2011. And that's why they didn't take anyone's head off? They didn't take anyone's head for this negligence, for this slob? ! My second point is that during the period from 22 December 2010 to 31 May 2010, both the governing body of the Fund and ÁKK Zrt. would have had time to prepare themselves for the management of the HUF 3000 billion assets to be taken over. The governing body of the Fund authorised it by ÁKK Zrt. on 18 May 2011. A detailed sales strategy was developed, but this was implemented and adopted only on 6 October 2011. This means that the Fund did not have an agreed sales strategy until 6 October 2011. At the same time, the fund's governing body has sold some HUF 450 billion of other assets in addition to the return of sovereign debt in the period since 31 May. The losses on the sale of securities, as I mentioned in my introduction, were HUF 18.4 billion in 2011, and they didn't take anyone's head off. ÁKK Zrt. did not have a code of conduct for the fund until the end of October 2011, and no one was responsible for that. But let's look at the malfunctions. We will say again and again: the Fund only concluded a contract with ÁKK Zrt. on 31 May 2011 for the management and sale of financial assets and other related services that were owned by the Fund, but they would have had plenty of time to do so in the previous five months. And that's why no one ever answered. My second point: on 18 May 2011, the Fund authorised ÁKK Zrt. its CEO for the liquidation of the portfolio and the construction of defence positions, ÁKK Zrt. However, the contract was not concluded until three months after the start of the sale of the assets it owns on 18 August 2011. The Fund was therefore able to use the services of the risk management service operator only from the end of August 2011. It should be noted that by the end of August 2011, the fund sold HUF 400 billion of assets outside of sovereign debt. Of course, they are not responsible. My comment on the preparation of the foreign securities depositaries' contract: according to the report on the Fund's activities in 2011, the fund entrusted Unicredit Bank Zrt. with a restricted tender for the provision of a depositary service in foreign securities worth HUF 511.9 billion. According to the data provided, the first meeting of the governing body of the Fund was held on 18 May, and the first meeting of the fund was held on 18 May. On 10 May 2011, he acted by visiting Unicredit Bank Zrt. only in order to make a bid. Suddenly, they became very close to Mihal Patai - what happened? Decision No 6/2011 of the Governing Board of the Fund In this respect, the following texts are recorded in the resolution No.3 of the European Parliament, and I would like to read this literally here for a few sentences, in order to tell you, for the sake of historical loyalty, that it should remain for posterity:, The Governing Board acknowledges in advance that ÁKK Zrt. As a result of its procurement procedure for the custody of securities issued abroad, the related cash account management and the provision of foreign exchange conversion services, Unicredit Zrt. is selected as a successful tenderer and is also approved by ÁKK Zrt. to enter into a contract with Unicredit Zrt. to perform the tasks specified in the tender notice in order to provide certain services to the Fund. It's a beautiful sentence! Dear House, It appears, therefore, that the SAC's procedure as a finished fact was subsequently acknowledged by the Fund. ÁKK Zrt. could not have been entrusted in advance by the governing body of the fund, since it had not yet formally met at the time of the call for proposals. It's a shame what happened here. Dear House, The MSZP does not support the adoption of the proposals for decisions. We do not support it, because it is unacceptable that you approve with unprofessional, superficial and dilettant reports of the saving of 3.2 million people for HUF 3000 billion. The MSZP does not support the proposal for a decision, because it does not address the scandals, contradictions and serious irregularities in the years 2011 and 12. The MSZP fact intends to include these amendments in the proposal for a decision, in which it expects clarification from the State Audit Office on the points made, and recommends that Parliament not decide on the adoption of the proposals until the investigation is concluded. And don't forget one thing: 3000 billion forints is missing from the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-08-10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the KDNP and the LMP Group are not present, so they are not speaking to the debate in an understandable way. And Mr János Volner indicated that he would like to comment later on the debate, so that I will give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes. [[10.00]]
u2015-10-08-11	Thank you very much. I thought I'd tell you anyway, because I'm representing the age group whose future was applauded by this government. I represent the age group who has already entered the private pension fund and has paid his private pension fund membership since the beginning of his work. I belong to the age group, many of whom were involved in leaving the country, because they said that if I could take away my pension so that I could applaud my money, then I wouldn't want to live in this country. Gentlemen, the formula you're making is very simple. Honestly, after I was raised to be a Swiss Catholic by my grandparents, I went to church a lot, and I don't understand how you as a Christian, conservative person can do that. You applauded this 3,000 billion with such immeasurable irresponsibleness as those young, wealthy gentlemen who suddenly become rich, and there will be something after me. One thing is clear that they thought that there was a need to reduce the general government deficit, because then we'll get the good EU money that their buddies will be able to clap on. That's what it's really about, gentlemen. 10 percent of gross GDP is HUF 3 000 billion. That's a lot of money, gentlemen. And you really applauded it with nothing on it today. Not only didn't the government debt drop, it doesn't show where this money went, but it does when you're throwing money out the window, that's pretty much what you've done with the private pension fund contributions. And the hardest part is, they did all this by bullying and blackmailing people. Because we have to say that the people who were about to make a decision whether or not to cross now are intimidated and blackmailed by you. For a long time, it was spread that those who did not withdraw from the pension fund would not receive a pension, and those who were older gentlemen, middle-aged gentlemen and ladies, and they said, "Oh, my God, you have to back off." The other thing. What kind of thing is it that I'm gonna have to go in there and make a statement about me wanting to stay somewhere? I think they're sitting on the other side of the horse, gentlemen. It's not normal for me to say that somewhere where I am, I want to stay! And after they intimidated these people and blackmailed them by not having a pension, so most of the people, yes, decided to go back to state because they didn't see him insured, because you said sentences that he couldn't feel safe, he couldn't feel that his pension would be something. And now we see that he's been applauded? Three thousand billion forints? Is it really our future? The lead speaker of Fidesz called this a historic opportunity to propose a solution. Gentlemen, this isn't a historical opportunity, it's a historical crime you've committed with the private pension fund. These reports are neither professionally nor in any way consistent. It is not for nothing that we are here on Thursday, if we look around, with just a few Members, in case we can sneak off on this subject, in case this report can be accepted, in case this debate can happen in a way that most people do not notice. I'm just wondering what new news they're gonna put in the press today, by the way, to cover this subject. 'Cause that's what you're really doing, that when you really have to sneak away, there's some news that people don't realize what you've been doing, and you think that in 20 years, and ten years from now, when you really have this problem, you're not gonna be on the wheel, so you're gonna figure out who's coming, right? [[Rumors and interruptions from Fidesz: Not sure! Oh!]] I'm sure you'll be distracted in the next election without your feet touching the ground. [[Intruders from Fidesz: Oh! It's a little strong.]] You can be sure of that, my fellow Member, because what you are doing is as pompous as you are handling the state's wealth, the way you manage people's lives, so that you really withdraw the largest sums from those sectors, such as health care, education, social care, and pension assets. My fellow Members, the policy that Fidesz-KDNP is pursuing is unacceptable, and it is also unacceptable for us to sit here and argue about 3 billion forints. The problem is, this isn't a debate. There are facts that you're trying to distort. They're gonna try to hold a debate on Thursday without anyone noticing that this debate has happened, and they're gonna take it nicely - and everything's okay, right? Then you can tell me how to solve the problem if you want. We do know that this fund was established on 22 December 2010. They let him live for five years, because you knew there was only one thing that really needed to get the money out of him. In five years, this money has been abducted, and in the end, there's nothing left in it. From now on, it can be terminated, so it is no longer necessary. You can see from his name that he has a pension reform and a debt reduction fund. The stunt is that it was the debt reduction that was important for you, and there was no need to deal with pension reform. One goal was to lower the debt a little. I couldn't do that either, but that's all they had to do anyway. Gentlemen, I really think what you've done with this is outrageous. I think that the young people who decided to stay in the private pension fund because they said they wouldn't be willing to do your extortion, those young people were the real ingredients on this issue. And I understand very well the people who left me to blackmail, because they were afraid of what would happen if you took revenge on them, because, let's just say, they're working for a public company, working at a school, and what if you see that they didn't go back to the public sector? It's outrageous! I don't know how they can look into their own souls, I don't know how they'll look into the souls of their pensioners and talk to them about children, sorry, no pension at all, and no pension for young people. My fellow Members, their buddies and your government have lived up to our future. The only responsible step they could take is to put this money back where it belongs. The money that young people, middle-aged people, took off their paychecks so they could have a pension and the money that kept the pension system. Look into your souls, and I think the only solution is that you do not accept this report yourself, you do not vote for this proposal yourself, and then you have given me a little of your honor back. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-08-12	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman Zsolt Becsó applied for a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2015-10-08-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to some of the comments made by the socialist Members. Mr. Tobiah's group leader said that we misled, deceived people, that we were actually led by one goal, that we needed this 3,000 billion. Allow me to respond to some of the most frequently made accusations. The money has disappeared, or, as Congresswoman Anita Heringes put it, the money has been abducted, which means that exactly the fund managed a total of HUF 3 000 billion worth of assets that have gone down to just a few hundred billion forints or disappeared. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, This money did not disappear from the fund, but was translated for important purposes: sovereign debt reduction with the involvement of sovereign debt HUF 2017 billion; budgetary payments, which also indirectly reduced government debt, HUF 459 billion; real return and payment of member contributions HUF 231 billion; transfer of securities to the State by the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. in the treatment of the patient with a value of HUF 264 million. It is also said that the fund was mismanaged with the money it had in his care. What I can tell you is that not only did the fund achieve the debt reduction target, but, as a result of this, I will give you an important figure: it has also achieved HUF 283 billion in interest savings for the state. So I can continue to tell you that the fund has done its job well. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-08-14	I'm asking if there's any further intention of commenting. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He indicated that yes... [[János Volner enters the Chamber.]] I'll ask János Volner. Excuse me, Mr. János Volner has just arrived, if you will allow me, Mr. Secretary of State, I will give him the floor, since he has checked in as a lead speaker and wanted to tell you what he has to say. Excuse me. Now it's Congressman János Volner's turn. [[10.10]]
u2015-10-08-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My apologies to the Secretary of State for having been forced to interrupt his speech here at the beginning, but I have done just enough for another public mission, to hold a press conference for public purposes. My fellow Members, we must look into what has happened in this matter, what we know for sure. It means that in 1998 one of the last measures of the Horn government was to ensure that a three-pillar pension system was established in Hungary. The first pillar was the public pension system, the pay-as-you-go system, which has been operating in Hungary for a long time. The second pillar was the establishment of the Hungarian private pension fund system and the third pillar was the creation of a voluntary private pension fund system. Of the three pillars, the second pillar is what we are dealing with here. A private pension fund system was established in Hungary that tried to form a funded pillar for the period when people of active age will be retired, and then pensions can be paid out to them with the security of this funded pillar. Obviously, professional debates may be about whether the funded pillar needs to be maintained and operated. This is disputed by some Members, they say on the Fidesz side that there is no need for funding, it is enough for us to rely on the pay-as-you-go system. But I ask you, fellow Members, whether the person who shares this view once looked at the demographic situation in Hungary. There is only one thing to see: at present, half as many children are born in Hungary as it would be desirable for the Hungarian pension system to be sustainable with certainty than it would have to be in order for Hungary to have a permanent population. And because half the children are born, and there is a strong emigration process at the same time, Hungary is virtually constantly losing its taxpayers, because either they are not born, or they are simply fleeing Hungary as a result of the policies of the socialists and Fidesz. At the same time, we can be sure that the pay-as-you-go pension system will not provide living for people who are retired in Hungary if the current demographic trends persist. I have one more very important thing to tell you. The Orbán government, the first Orbán government to take office between 98 and 2002, did not, in an interesting way, terminate the private pension fund system. Why? The explanation is very simple, because in the private pension fund there wasn't enough money for the first Orbán government to einstantise this money. There was simply no amount corresponding to the tolerance threshold, if this amount had been much higher, the first Orbán government would have done so by practically robbing 3 million private pension funds and eliminating this pillar. However, this did not happen because there was simply so little money in the register of a fresh start system that this system was not abolished. Interestingly, the first Orbán government likes to claim the alleged truth that the introduction of the private pension fund system was unnecessary, it was risky, it was traded there with people's money, it somehow did not recognize it and it did not eliminate it, I say again, probably because their thinking was blocked by the low amount of money. Later on, when we talked about HUF 3000 billion, Viktor Orbán saw the dollar sign in his eyes, and I have to say that they took the money. That's all that happened. It is also important to see that when the legislator made provision in 98 for an appropriate amount of money to arrive at the private pension funds each year, we reached that point in 2010 that an annual payment of approximately HUF 350 billion had been made to the private pension funds. This appeared as a hedge element. Roughly half of this money was invested in sovereign debt, and the other half was mainly in shares. Undoubtedly, this wealth was done, contrary to the communication that the representatives of the government continued to argue that this money was missing, this money could not be obtained, but it was actually there. It is also an interesting debate when the government talks about how poorly these pension funds managed the money, because how low the real return was. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, The fact that there was a real return at all meant that the investment that private pension funds had meant was valuable. It was valuable, as opposed to what the state has handled over the past 25 years, I'm not just thinking about pension funds, I'm thinking about anything that's been in the hands of the state for the last 25 years. It is also important to see that, when we think about whether this particular private pension fund system should be in addition to falling demography, the solution chosen by the government is that the voters have been fooled, because they did not mention the nationalization of private pension funds in the electoral programme, and what result it has led to. I am asking you, fellow Members, if the government has solved the problem of the pension system in Hungary. Is that question solved? Right- and left-wing economists agree that Hungary is moving towards a collapsing pension system under current demography and current economic conditions. The problem of the pension system has therefore not been solved by the Orbán government. Have we solved the problem of public debt? Just a few minutes ago, I collected the latest data from the State Debt Management Centre, and I recommend this to the Secretary of State, which is the most recent data. On 31 March 2010, Hungary's government debt reached 80.5 percent of GDP. Roughly five years later, on 30 June 2015, the debt-to-GDP ratio was 79,6 percent. So what happened? The government could not solve the problem of public debt, it took away the private pension fund's assets of 10 percent of GDP, so it is safe to say that it nationalised them, because the Hungarian private individuals, 3 million people, were threatened that if they refused to move from the private pension fund system to the public system, they would not receive a state pension in the future, and they were threatened with it, so this einstandation was successful. However, it can also be seen that while the private pension fund assets of 10 per cent of GDP are being lost, in this period only 0.9 per cent, so the debt reduction that the Orbán government could achieve is not exactly 1 per cent. These facts, these numbers. The economic policy that Viktor Orbán's government has done in recent years has revived HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds. This amount, between us, was applauded by the government with a noble simplicity, lived up to it. It can be said, of course, that the government has spent the money on debt reduction, but in order to see clearly what happened, it is worth examining what Viktor Orbán said in 2010. Orbán said that Hungary is starting a financial freedom fight in order to regain our national self-determination. What happened? Einstandol in Hungary has HUF 3000 billion in private pension funds, and then they immediately give the money taken from the Hungarian people to Hungary's creditors, various Western European and American banks, saying that we will reduce the public debt. The facts, the figures show that during this indicated period, at the end of the first quarter of 2010, shortly after Fidesz won the election victory, and in the period until 30 June 2015, there was only a 0.9 percent decrease, so the figures show that the Orbán government failed at this level, too, in this area. It can, of course, be agreed that private companies should not manage this extremely large pension burden, but, where appropriate, that amount should be managed by the state. But it is also important to see that public treatment does not mean that the state manages the money by spending it to the last penny by the Viktor Orbáns, and who is active today will, say, twenty or thirty years from now, be knocking on the door of the pensioner on the basis of Viktor Orbán's promise, and he will say that, however, Viktor Orbán has promised to protect pensions. [[10.20]] My fellow Members, pensions have not been protected, pensions have been lived up to now by the Hungarian government, because this has been an irresponsible farming that has taken place here. It is also important to see that in an amazingly manipulative way, people are called fools here by the Fidesz MEPs. I'll give you an example. One of my fellow Members from Fidesz explains that if this amount had been put into sovereign debt at the time and added that it would have been held in risk-free Hungarian sovereign debt, how much more would have been charged than if private pension funds had invested in ordinary securities accounts and various sovereign debt funds, and this certainly proves that the Hungarian private pension funds had mismanaged this amount. However, it is worth looking at exactly what my fellow Member is talking about: in 2008, when the Gyurcsány government maneuvered the country into a close state failure, when the sovereign debt market yields jumped, Mr State Secretary, and you know that in a country close to a state bankruptcy, the returns would have been skyrocketed, calculating these high yield levels. But this period, Mr. Secretary of State, should not be called risk-free by a single Fidesz representative, and do not claim that the Hungarian State managed the money put into sovereign debt in a risk-free manner during this period, because it was the representatives of Fidesz who were talking about - agreeing with the socialists - that at that time there was a close state situation in Hungary. Of course, in a country in close proximity to a state, returns will rise, skyrocketing, because investors see risky whether or not they will get their money back. As in Greece, Spain, Cyprus, it was shown that this risk was unfortunately very real. And in this case, this was the case, and the Hungarian state's operation was risky during this period. It is also important to see that if we want to take care of the elderly, it is not enough to make the pension system sustainable, because what is happening now, Mr. Secretary, what have the socialists done, and what have you done? One of the last measures of the Bajnai government was that a austerity package of HUF 1200 billion was implemented and the 13th month pension was taken away. What have you done? The 13th month pension was not returned to pensioners, on the contrary, 3 million people's private pension fund savings were taken in the form of HUF 3000 billion. This so-called party continued, and the problem of the pension system has not been solved, but the problems have deepened. It is also worth seeing what happens to the pension system. The fact that the pension system is sustainable is not the same as solving the problem of older people. Currently, the retirement age is constantly being raised in Hungary, rising and rising. My fellow Member, Gergely Farkas, is behind me, and he will retire.The Hungarian retirement age will be at least 70 years, Mr. State Secretary. The pension system can be made sustainable, everyone can be reassured, and the government - I hit my stomach - will raise the retirement age for 80 years. Will the pension system be sustainable? Sure. But what happens to old people, you can't tell. Because what is it, fellow Members? At a time when Jobbik's representatives started a campaign here in Parliament last year to allow men to retire after four decades; when we collected the signatures of more than 200,000 people in the country to confirm this intention, we believed that a man who worked for four decades, who drew the yoke, paid the tax, deserved to retire, and that financial protection had to be created. This funding is only HUF 150 billion a year, if you count on the pension fund's side, but if you count on it, Mr Secretary, that a significant proportion of these people live on social assistance and community service, this amount is significantly less. Because your government, Mr. Secretary of State, can offer the Hungarian people aged 55 to 64 a vision that can be seen from the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office: only 4 out of 10 people in the relevant age group currently have jobs in Hungary, and 4 out of these 10 people work by saying that one of them is a public worker, Mr. State Secretary, for a minimum wage lower than the minimum wage. This is the vision you offer, and it is said that the pension system is sustainable. My fellow Members, the maintenance of the pension system is not the same as the dignity of Hungary's ability to care for its elderly fellow countrymen who have lost their ability to work. Because what's going on here in Hungary is not that. This is how they try to keep people in the labour market, that they still can't offer them enough work. They are trying to keep people in the labour market without jobs, and hundreds of thousands of young workers are fleeing out of living conditions here. It is also important to see that if we want to resolve this issue, we need to point out that what the government has done in recent years has been part of an irresponsible policy that revives Hungary's future. The government has repeatedly promised the 3 million members of the private pension fund, Viktor Orbán personally said these words, that there will be an individual account, that everyone will have an individual account, where people will see that the money will be available for the payment of pensions in the future. With regard to individual accounts, the government - it has now been years since the introduction and presentation of the first such promises - can safely say that in this case he lied, we can safely say that the government has fooled Hungarian people in this case, the individual accounts have not been introduced, the money has been spent. And when the fellow Members of the Fidesz spoke about the security of private pension funds, my fellow Members, what has happened here is simply a disgrace, not a security, but a spending of people's money, and making sure that in Hungary there is no security for capital, the capital does not feel good here, simply because at any time in any economic sector, the Hungarian government can intervene very harshly by means of unforeseen means. Secretary of State, it is not possible to accuse Jobbik that we would be an unconditional market-friendly party, that we would like market mechanisms to prevail; we would like the freedom of the enterprise to mean that the state is performing only a certain regulatory task, but that you are rudely interfering with the operation of all major public systems, that you are rudely interfering with the operation of the private sector, the private economy, that you are doing this in an unpredicted manner, and that you are eliminating HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds, that 3 million people's private pension fund savings, that cannot be agreed upon, this policy cannot be supported, because this will lead to the realization of the Hungarian future and the deterioration of Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-08-16	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank God I did not end up interrupting this debate, because this is how Congressman Sallai R. Benedek came in, and so can the LMP. However, I would like to point out that there should be more discipline than such a debate in Parliament, so that everyone can always be here on time and say it, because it was only a matter of a few seconds before I closed the debate, otherwise on such an important issue we would not be able to listen to everyone's opinions. And I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-08-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I fully agree with your intelligence, and I thank my fellow Member Volner for being late, because I had the opportunity to get here too. [[Defiance.]] From the office building. I am watching the broadcast live, and it has not occurred to me that such a question will become so uninteresting, that Mr President will want to close the debate. [[Intercom from Fidesz: As shown by the LMP fraction!]] Technically - I thank my fellow Members very much for their joy at my arrival - how parliamentary life can be emptied and how it is possible to continuously take photos in the press that hardly anyone is in, obviously, made it possible by the house rules that took the location of the detailed debates from here and evacuated Parliament's work. But obviously everyone is trying to adapt to their duties, how they can appear here. [[10.30]] Returning to the agenda in particular, it is most important to talk about what has become of the money that has been made available to the State as a result of the einstand of private pension funds, as this particular item of the agenda is mostly about this. Now, during the preparation, I kept watching the 2010 news with great interest about what the government had promised. My fellow Member, Mr Burány, went through the times when Gabriella Selmeczi, then Mr Rogan, set deadlines, but from which nothing was consistently achieved. However, the most interesting thing is that the Hungarian voters and not the opposition voters, not the Fidesz non-loving voters, but the fidesz conservative voters, who say they are civil Christians, were deceived by the government, because there was nothing to pay off the public debt promised by the government about what this money was for. To be honest, I would like to debate a little bit with the beginning of my fellow Member Volner's speech. That's an interesting question. He began by saying that the first Orbán Cabinet between 98 and 2002 had not yet been excited about this issue, and he did not want to steal this property because there was not enough money in it. Honestly, I'm a little more idealistic than that, and I think the first Orbán cabinet still had some decency. Because if you look at the processes, whether in terms of state land or otherwise, it was completely different. We can ask that the amount of land in the state was even more, and he did not want to start privatizing it. In many respects, he had not yet touched such tools that he is now using. In 2007, István Jakab said that it would be a crime against the nation to sell state land, and now he's talking about how good it is. So the process of this will be completed differently. We see how certain governments can be influenced by business groups, mob groups, and how they take over control, and how these groups will have their own government, and we see the process of ripening in this whole case, which is basically what we see every day. It had to remain in the compulsory private pension scheme. Congresswoman Anita Heringes said in her speech how funny the situation is when the Hungarian electorate is practically put before an ultimatum, and they say that she should go somewhere separately, make a separate statement about the situation that has been good for her, and she does not want to change it. Obviously, a multitude of people had no idea what was happening around them, no idea of their possibilities, and the nationalization of this 3,000 billion was so. What we're talking about here is how a right-wing government, a government that calls itself civil, takes people's money, clearly makes nationalization out of a private fortune. The process of this has taken place. Most of all, I wanted to draw attention to what has been partly, touchingly said over the past six months. In my field of expertise, following the FM's activities, we now know that in January this year, TIG and the FM reserve fund have noticed how much money FM has made in deposits. However, in the next month, until 25 February, until Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave the order to remove all such funds, nothing has happened. So what happened? The government said the money was in danger because certain funds were traded. This was not true, because I believe that 65 percent of the shares had to be held in public securities, and they were still able to bring about a return. But what did the Hungarian government do? Einstand this money, and he started trading, he started playing that money, and he invested in high-income securities the risk of which now has to be financed by public money. The establishment of a system of private pension funds obviously meant a security for everyone that was independent of Hungary's demographic situation. The children of our own age should have been born by now, who will produce Hungarian tax forints and social security contributions, from which they can be financed. But it was not born, and we are not going in this direction, so that Hungarian society can do this. This is the security that the government has taken away with this step from Hungarian citizens. The Orbán government set up a freak show, said we had to fight sovereign debt. I remember those periods in West Transdanubia, there was a pastor, poor, who wanted to give his own money to reduce public debt. It has led people to believe that this is the primary goal, while not only over 75%, but also the level of public debt may be even higher by the end of the year; it is certainly not a coincidence that this intention to privatise, which the government is now trying to achieve at a very rapid pace. So that's failed. The fact that Hungarian citizens' money is not on the stock exchange has also failed, because we clearly see it now and we know that the Orbán government has invested these amounts in securities and the Hungarian taxpayers' money in hopes of a higher return, not in particular, which have also been put at risk. That's how public money swam. So the fact that the rapporteur proposed this report as a proposal for a decision is rather nonsense, I think, because there was nothing else going on here on Fidesz's part than the fact that he promised the voters in 2010 to declare war on the public debt and then failed to do so, he nationalised a lot of private money, so he took money from the people, but he didn't do it, and the public debt remained the same. The government therefore basically failed to fulfil either its promises in 2010 or its actions behind the move, no personalised pension deposits were created, and this promise was not fulfilled. So I find this support of the opposition party very difficult to imagine. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-08-18	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate, so I'm closing the general debate. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-10-08-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for both pro-government and opposition speeches. To be honest, I personally have nothing new to do with this debate today, because it has been going on for years since 2010, when the government decided to involve the private pension fund system in the financing of public debt. In essence, this debate started in 2010 and the arguments were made at that time. Honestly, it's a little interesting to me that Jobbik and the MSZP are both on the same platform, using the same words: they took it, spent it, applauded it, lived it, misled it, blackmailed it. It's a little incomprehensible - because what really happened? What is happening to you now is that a statutory payment, an individual contribution for a private income, which is declared by the Parliament's law to be paid to the state for pension cover, which you now claim to be a private income, a private property of that insured person. It is claimed that what the State requires is to be paid for this purpose, and therefore it will receive a service, would in fact be effective for that individual, the money of that insured person, which is collected in an account in a fund, and can be used at any time to do so. Yeah, it's not like that. In few countries around the world, a public contribution obligation was exported to the private sector and treated in the private sector, essentially investing in this resource. I think that this was an extraordinary idea and suggestion for the Hungarian Socialist Party, which was voted in 1997 during the Horn government, and which, unfortunately, was swept away by time, both the economic environment and social problems. It swept away because the difficulties caused by the crisis and the wasteful management of socialist governments have brought the level of public debt so high that it has become almost unmanageable for the country. There was a lack of money from the state budget that would have been paid as a contribution by those individuals. If this system were to be maintained, the state budget should have completed the Pension Insurance Fund by HUF 460 billion in 2014, which is unbearable. [[10.40]] You could also say that you are arguing for it - and now Jobbik and LMP too, because I understand the MSZP because they invented it - to have a private pension fund system that is managed by private capital, invested, and, of course, to have its operating costs in nice pockets - we could see that it only costs 17 billion a year to operate that system - and at the same time, the state does what it wants to do, and it's okay to go bankrupt. What's important is that the private pension fund system that you guys invented for someone, that's gonna work, and that's gonna work. But what will happen to the state, that the state is going bankrupt, that there is an excessive deficit procedure, that, by the way, Hungary is being withdrawn from EU funding, you are not interested. Basically, you can say that you are now arguing why this did not remain, saying that basically a state pilot's game should continue to work. This was nothing more than a state-voted MSZP pilot game voted by law. There was nothing else about this private pension system. If there was uncertainty about people's future pensions in one system, then it must have meant uncertainty in this system. It meant no one knew what that would mean. And it's not true that it's negative or bad for one person in terms of their pension. It is no coincidence, by the way, that out of 3 million out of 200,000 people, 3 million people said that they agree with him and that he trusts the state pension system more than he trusts the private pension system. If this had been such a social resistance that people disagreed, believe me that a private pension fund member of less than 10 percent, essentially around 6 percent, would have said that he was not going to enter the state pension system. And the accusations that this money was on the stock market, that it had been abducted, that it had been stolen, that it was absolutely impossible. These accounts prove exactly where these resources have gone and what they have served, which the State Audit Office has also verified during its annual discharge checks. Thus, direct government debt reduction was HUF 2017 billion. Budgetary payment, which ultimately reduces public debt in the same way, relieves the financial burden of the state, was HUF 459 billion. The transfer of securities from strategically important companies to the State was worth HUF 264 billion. Real return and payment of member contributions HUF 231 billion. You did not dispute that this was the case. If you do not dispute this, do not claim that this money has been spent. This money isn't in private pension funds. It's in the state. The State imposed its deposit obligation, and now it's back in the state register, into the state system, and thus served the state's operation. I think that anyone who wants to understand the essence of this system will soon understand, such as the Poles, and the Poles, studying this Hungarian transformation system, introduced a completely similar system in 2014. They have also acknowledged that the private pension fund scheme introduced in 1999 cannot be maintained and cannot be operated. There is an international example and international recognition of the fact that the majority of the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian State, made the right decision when it abolished the private pension fund system, placed this resource and its system in the interests of the state. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-08-20	I'll ask Mr. Denes Pigeon... yeah, he's not even here, sorry. Then I will not ask you if you wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. Thus, due to relatively low interest, the item on the agenda has practically ended. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. It would now be the speeches after the agenda if there were anyone here who would do such a thing. But anyone who's written is not here either. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] So I'm closing this day, closing the session. Thank you very much for your work. [[The meeting ended at 10:45 p.m.]]
