u2015-07-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 4th extraordinary one-day session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be here to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech. The symptomatic treatment does not solve the problem. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2015-07-03-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today, all you hear about is immigration and migration. This is also backed up by the government propaganda for a pointless poster campaign of terrible money. But in fact, we are faced with one of the great crises of our time. The current UN report also points out that since World War II, so many people have never been forced to leave their homes. Around the world, 60 million people have become land runners, the rarest of which is their own decision. The government is striving for a mood rather than a solution with hasty measures and loud statements. Ladies and gentlemen, The question must be asked if we want a real solution and not just a symptomatic treatment, what profound reasons cause migration. I would like to draw attention to four factors: overpopulation, the unsustainable nature of the world economy system that keeps the masses in poverty, military interventions and, not least, climate change. Earth's population increases by more than 200,000 people a day. Every day, so many new hungry mouths ask for food, clean drinking water, housing, energy, consumer goods, education, health and social care. A false Western model that builds on the exploitation of resources, which is the role model; industrialization, mass production of disposable products, the most wasteful transport solutions. No wonder it's the 20th. In the 20th century, the population grew 4.3 times higher, while energy demand and the number of live animals raised to food increased tenfold. Water consumption has also increased ninefold. This process continues and accelerates in the context of deteriorating natural conditions due to climate change and pollution. It is no exaggeration to say that the most important challenge facing mankind is to learn to save money; to save energy, water, food. We need to get used to buying durable, repairable and, if possible, locally produced products, as was self-evident in our grandparents' time. Of course, reform of the global economic and financial system is also inevitable. Today, with slave labor, they produce fashionable products for pennies in poverty countries, only to become obsolete after a month or two, or simply get bored by their farmers born to better-lucky places. Poverty and hopelessness, the political and military conflicts involved, are inevitable in this system. The cost of over-use comfort in the Western world is the exploitation of billions of our fellow humans. We know that very well, because Hungary is also economically at the borders of the two worlds, we can see both faces of the system. But in advanced societies, only 1 percent of the population is considered a real winner. Neoliberal market logic also destroys the fine fabric of society in Western Europe, North America. We must stop this process. A reasonable balance between work and trade must be restored so that everyone can benefit from the goods they produce. We also need to curb imperialist force policy in the service of military superiority for economic and political purposes, come from the West or the East. For the past 15 years, one war has been reckless. Countries have been bombed so that many times there was no real reason or authority to do so. But what hurts even more is the reconstruction, the stabilisation of the territories, they could not or did not want to cope with it. The refugee wave reminds me that war is not a video game. It is a pity that Viktor Orbán and his government see only the political benefits of the problems. Neither solution nor understanding is helped by the sword chiming of the past few weeks. The real solution can only be achieved through cooperation and joint action. If the government takes the path of stubbornness and conflict-searching, it will only draw problems to Hungary, but it will not be able to solve them. By the weight of the European Union, it is capable of achieving real change. In the placement of current refugees, in the foreign and security policy and in the renewal of the world economy, only the 28 Member States can make progress. That's what I'd encourage the government to do before it's too late. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-07-03-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-07-03-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, in the European Union - but perhaps in the whole developed world, as it is true for North America - one of the most important problems, the most important challenge is illegal immigration, the issue of illegal migration. If we look at 25 Member States of the European Union, it can be concluded that Hungary is among the five most difficult countries. If we look at GDP or population numbers, the greatest pressure on immigration is clearly on Hungary. Fortunately, this has now been acknowledged by the European Union, because at the two-day summit this weekend in Brussels decisions have been made that meet the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people. It has been accepted that what we have long drawn attention to is the need to separate cases of those who are in need of help and who are indeed fleeing from war and persecution, and to separate those who are economic immigrants, to whom the European Union is otherwise unable to provide a future in the long term. There is also a consensus within the European Union now, among the European Union's states, that this separation should, if possible, be resolved outside the borders of the European Union. But the situation requires urgent solutions. So global solutions can obviously make progress in the long term, but the situation is too serious to wait for. Hungary cannot afford to wait any longer. That is why we have tabled a legislative proposal allowing asylum procedures to be carried out quickly and more efficiently and for asylum detention to be applied more widely, of course within the framework provided by the European Union. Some data, though, I don't think it's uninteresting to repeat. So far, more than 65,000 people have crossed the Hungarian border illegally, almost a hundred percent of them have arrived at the Serbian border section. In the European Union, the increase was 30%, and in Hungary the increase was 800 percent. When assessing asylum procedures, it is clear that a large proportion of refugees are not real refugees, they are not persecuted in their country either politically or because of their creed, they come from a safe country. You're leaving for Europe because you're looking at an easier living here. The law on asylum adopted by Parliament this week serves to prevent this. This allows us not only to look at where the applicant comes from, but also to look at which transit country he comes to Hungary, so our aim is to keep those coming from a safe transit country in that country. If we do not have strict laws in time, we cannot protect Hungary from the economic refugees that are stranded here, because it is obvious that returning refugees is a much harder task than preventing them from arriving in Hungary. Hungary has received an enormous amount of illegal migration and refugee pressure in recent years, but our country protects not only its borders, but also the borders of the other countries of the Schengen area, as a result of EU and Schengen membership. [[9.10]] So we have to create rules that protect them properly, which is why we have to establish procedures that are effective and shorten the process. We continue to say and think that everyone has to protect their own borders, that everyone has to decide how many refugees they can take in. Hungary has come to the limit of its capacity. Of course, a global examination of the asylum situation can be timely. Today, the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to make Hungary economically and politically strong, but we are not in a position to solve asylum problems all over the world, and we are providing the people who are moving towards Europe. She pushed for cooperation and stressed cooperation. However, I have to say here that we wanted or want to prevent precisely the situation that people have to flee, so Hungary is taking part in the fight against the Islamic State, for example, with 150 soldiers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Madam Member or fellow Members of the Party have not supported this. So you didn't support exactly the possibility that you saw in your four-minute speech that you thought it was necessary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-03-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, Member of the MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, When Fidesz, under the pressure of KDNP, adopted the Act on Sunday's closure, the adoption of the law was preceded by serious debates, not only here in the House, but also with the participation of professional organisations and trade unions in society. This law has been passed by you, by the way, in favour of rejecting the majority of society. Even then, we said and said in many places the negatives that this law will mean, and since the adoption of the law, it turns out that most of them have been proven. This law does not enjoy the support of the majority of society, it enjoys the rejection of the majority of society. This law causes damage both to the labour market and economically, and it has now become apparent that it is actually for the benefit of the economic operators around Fidesz, since it has recently been acknowledged by the extremely antipathic leader of the CBA that they were virtually the ones who had lobbied this law through these parties and not for anything else, but in order for the cash register to ring day and night in their businesses. I'm not saying this. This was said by the hugely rich billionaire leader of the CBA with a multimillion-dollar sports car, who apparently controls your decisions. Ladies and gentlemen. 72 percent of the voters in Hungary reject this law, and I would like to say that even 63 percent of the pro-government voters have said that they want the shops to be open on Sunday, and not only Mr Baldauf's shops to be open, but anyone who decides to do so. Because it is influenced by the Fidesz MEPs, which means that the CBA leader has achieved that the shops that may have been open so far are now closed on Lake Balaton, but two CBAs have been declared a market in Balatonfenyves and Balatonakalin, so they can be open because they put two tables in front of the house. This proves that nothing else, your oligarchs can get rich again, that the Balaton season will be ruined, vacationers on Lake Balaton will be ruined, and it will be difficult, and we will not even talk about how many shops will be ruined on Lake Balaton, there are already entrepreneurs who have to close the blinds. Ladies and gentlemen. That is why we have submitted a referendum initiative to the National Election Office. We have tried several times, but the National Election Office, which is not independent of your party, but is practically filled with party soldiers, we know that, so the National Election Office has done everything in its power to prevent these initiatives by legal nonsense and by all means; it is the National Election Office and the National Election Committee. Now, however, there is in the National Election Office, before the National Election Committee, the referendum initiative, which is about allowing people to decide whether or not this law should remain, let people decide whether they want to keep it closed on Sunday or not. If there is a referendum on this issue, and there will be a referendum on this issue, Fidesz will lose it. This referendum will be lost by Fidesz and KDNP, said János Lázár one day, so János Lázár is of the opinion that if this referendum can be held, you will lose it. Ladies and Gentlemen, If John Lazarus says so, you are most likely to know that this is rejected in society, otherwise why would János Lázár say so, that if there is a referendum, you will obviously lose it. Ladies and Gentlemen, From here we must send a message to the National Election Office and the Election Committee to give up their party behaviour, let this question pass, and allow people to decide whether this law is good for them or not, because now it is almost 3,000 people who have lost their jobs [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 387 thousand extra hours to work in trade for those who stayed there. This law is harmful to people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's bad for the country, let the people decide. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-03-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-07-03-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Finally, there is a case in which the MSZP consistently takes the same view, and this case is the case of the rest of 150 to 200 thousand commercial workers. The MSZP has consistently been able to take on these people for a few months now. Although the MSZP is the left, the workers, the workers' party, this 200,000 people doesn't matter. [[Zoltán Haughty: Turn the record around!]] Zoltán Grimlock doesn't count, he goes against consistently [[Zoltán Grimlock: Get to the point.]] These people have to work on Sunday, that's what the MSZ says. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You missed!]] However, the position of the MSZP in all cases is not so clear, for example, in the social and national case of the settlement of the Olympics in Budapest and Hungary these days, the position of the MSZP has already been opposed, and the same opinion polls show that the vast majority of society supports the settlement of the Olympics, yet the MSZP opposes this issue. Even more interesting is the case, although if we look behind it, the MSZP can take a consistent position, such as this issue of illegal immigration. [[Zoltán Gőgös: How about you talk about closing on Sunday?]] Let us remember what the MSZP said about the referendum on citizenship in 2004. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Objection! The president's ringing the bell.]] The MSZP said then that Hungarians across the border should not be given Hungarian citizenship, because Hungarian people will come to Hungary and take away the work of the other Hungarian person. Then, in Hungarian, the Hungarian Socialist Party opposed the Hungarian people. So, what happens now? That's what's happening now. However, now the MSZP enters the side of illegal immigrants and illegally entering the country. Who are you facing, too? Against the Hungarian people, the people of Hungary. I think the position of the MSZP is wrong. And as for Sunday's work rest, these 200,000 people, on the other hand, we don't say to you that these people have to work, but we say that they also have the right to rest, to spend time off and to spend Sunday not to work. [[9.20]] I think that all the positions you have said on the other hand have been resolved since 15 March. The supply is guaranteed, since the commercial shops below 200 square meters work, the owners with one fifth of the property work, and their family members can work in these shops. I myself was convinced of this in my own town, Mezőkövesden, where I was able to visit several such small shops, because I was about to buy sour cream, and I was able to get it for Sunday lunch. But also his social reception is fully accepted, as no trade union, association or advocacy organization has acted against it outside the MSZP. [[Zoltán Pride: De András!]] because they accepted it, and Zoltán Gőgös' predictions and yellings about the labour situation did not come true. They have not come true, because there are no fewer people working in trade, what is more, there is the same unemployment situation in the retail trade, and they are still looking for workers, as they did before the closings on Sunday. And it hasn't been true, either, what you predicted with great enthusiasm, that traffic will decrease, people will buy less. That wasn't true either. The results and figures of the online cash register show that retail sales increased by 11 percent overall from 15 March compared to the previous period, and that according to the latest CSF data, retail sales in May increased by 5.2 percent. All in all, your arguments are not real from a social or economic point of view. The country does accept this decision and adapt to it. And finally, Zoltán Lukács, I tell you: there was a major MSZP politician, László Kovács, who said that we should not win polls. That's what I can tell you about Sunday's lockdown. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Lukács: That's why we need a referendum!]]
u2015-07-03-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, As I recall, while the Member said his speech, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, did not once yell at me, and you spoke to me all along. Please refrain from doing so. [[Zoltán Lukács: I didn't say a word, Mr. President. András Tállai: Zoltán Gógös was screaming the whole time, Mr. President.]] Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda... [[Noise.]] Congressman Haughty! Fellow Members! If you would be so kind as to conduct your discussions outside the Chamber and not in the Chamber. You may be very tired, but we all are. So we will address Mr Péter Harrach, leader of the Group, the Christian Democratic People's Party, with the title of the restriction of the abuse of product presentations. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-07-03-9	Mr President, Dear House, To the previous speech, I would just like to say that the KDNP has already filled and is filling the gap that the lack of the Social Democratic Party in Hungary means, because we have taken up the representation of what is represented by an ancient social democratic demand, i.e. the representation of workers. But let's get down to business today. We all know what abuse of commodity displays means. In order to reduce these abuses, KDNP submitted an amendment yesterday. Deceitful con artists cheat pensioners, old people. The process begins when they are lured with false promises, free travel, free health check, and when they get there, they are misleadingly talking about the wonderful effects of goods that old people welcome, as they are about health preservation and healing. Finally, and this is one of the biggest catches of fraud, these products are sold for multiple sales values, often ten to fifteen times. There are products that can be bought for 50,000 forints, which are sold to pensioners for 800,000 forints. And if you don't have money in the old man's place, you get him to sign a loan agreement, in many cases with a waiver or restriction of the right of withdrawal. So lying lures, deceptive persuasion, immorally high prices and adverse credit agreements. Here, of course, it must also be said that there are fair traders who perform fair displays, but unfortunately the proportion is 75:25 per cent for the benefit of con artists. Why do we say that? Let me draw attention to a series of investigations carried out by the Consumer Protection Authority in 2013: 110 infringements were found during 150 inspections, so three quarters of the display of goods are illegal. We needed to find a solution that would try to catch con artists without restricting fair trade. We have launched a consultation process by addressing the stakeholders and asking for their opinion, as well as the authorities and finally the wallet. As a result, we have tabled an amendment to three laws. By amending the Commercial Act, we create a customer service for these companies. The purpose of this is that people who at home realize that they have been tricked or that their children are calling this attention, can reach the company - because in many cases they have tried in vain - and can exercise their right to refrain from this purchase. But we also want to amend the advertising law to prevent companies wishing to deceive older people from being seduced by the ban on false promises. Finally, the Financial Institution Act will limit the credit agreement to the credit institution, so no credit contracts can be concluded on the bus and on the spot. We tried to close a few loopholes. We know, of course, that con men can open another loophole. We'll have to keep an eye on them and put them in a lock. But let me draw attention to the importance of prevention, because legislation can limit certain fraud, but it is not possible to eliminate the good intentions and credulity of older people. Here, the media and everyone who deals with it have a job to do, to draw people's attention to this danger. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-07-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, As a victim group, we can mostly talk about pensioners, as they are most often the victims of these organizations, these various tricky frauds. In this respect, one of the most vulnerable groups in society is the community of pensioners. People who try to gain unfair profit usually take advantage of the fact that these people live alone, are lonely, almost no one opens the door, and even a delusion called a bus ride or health screening is a social, social event, an occasion where they can meet, talk to other people, and resolve their loneliness somewhat. That's why they often fall into this trap. At the same time, it is absolutely repulsive that this good faith of old people is being exploited by the organizers of product presentations, 75 percent, as has been said here, and they are trying to sell them completely unnecessary items. [[9.30]] He also mentioned a few examples. We know that a simple small laser keychain was sold as a laser brain stimulator for 50,000 forints, or for hundreds of thousands of forints they sell mattresses to which they attribute wonderful supernatural properties. But it was also an example that they wanted to sell or sell a massage chair to a busload of elderly people for 800,000 forints. So we can give a wide variety of examples, and I think there are few in this room, and there are few in Hungary, whose acquaintances and relatives have not been tried in the same way, and they have not been sold something at multiple prices, which they did not really need. As has been said, the checks are very high in the number of infringements, and the objection rate at the National Consumer Protection Authority has been between 65-75 per cent over the last five years; this means that indeed, in the overwhelming majority of product launchers, the control authorities have found violations and infringements. The number of written complaints has also increased greatly, since between 2010 and 2014 the proportion of those complaining in writing has increased from 228 to 780. Most people complained that there are different reasons here, but 30 percent of them are the highest, who complained about the lack of a right of withdrawal. Although the Fidesz-KDNP majority in the last four-year cycle accepted a legislative amendment that increased the withdrawal period to 14 days, thus giving everyone two weeks to change their mind, return the product and ask for the money back, but if there is nowhere to turn, these elderly people could not live with it. That is why this legislative amendment proposal is important, so it is important that the Christian Democratic People's Party has submitted this, and it is therefore important that it has been preceded by a broad consultation, not only with experts from the Consumer Protection Authority and the NFM, but also with pensioners, the Data Protection Supervisor, the Hungarian Competition Authority. So we are talking about a widely prepared proposal, which has already received a lot of comments from the public, and this is available to everyone on Parliament's website during the summer, and from now on, I am sure that further comments will come to the bill. It may come into force later this autumn if this is discussed by Parliament, which means that, in the case of similar product presentations to be organised in the autumn, older people will be safer to go; and customer services should also be set up this year. Here, the bill leaves 45 days of preparation for the organizers of various product presentations. All three of the directions set out in the bill are important. It is important not to have someone to sign a credit agreement on the spot, since a reckless decision can make a person indebted for up to two years, and a large part of his pension must be paid for these products for two years. And often out of shame, old people don't dare to reveal this to their families, so only later will children or grandchildren learn that they should help their grandparents financially because they have become victims of such frauds. Therefore, it is important that the credit agreement cannot be concluded locally, because then one or two days longer will be allowed to think about it, while going to a bank account, and there it will actually, if necessary, conclude this contract. It is important to ban free, misleading advertising, and, of course, it is equally important that customer services are made available both by personal, written, telephone and electronic means. I think that this bill is more secure for consumers and, above all, for older people, and that is why the KDNP bill is important. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-03-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:, A life worthy of man in Hungary! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Last week, a minimist publication covering the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office for 2014 was published, accompanied by a statement of total social outrage. The Deputy President of the HCSO informed the public that with this publication the Hungarian Central Statistical Office would complete the publication of the minimum subsistence calculation based on the current method. Instead, it plans to develop an absolute poverty indicator with a new name and new content for today's Hungarian society. The minimum of living has been calculated on an annual basis by KSH so far. The results of the calculations were published annually from 1995 under the title "Létminimumum." The current methodology is more than 20 years old, based on international literature and broad social consultation. However, looking back to the distant past, we can see that in Hungary, from the years of World War I, they have compiled and published life-saving cost data with the help of a consumer basket. It is particularly outrageous, on the basis of all this, that more than 100 years of data can be traced back to the past, with this scandalous step by the office. The opposition parties and individual researchers see the independence of the HCSO falling behind the move, assuming that the office's experts are pressuring the government to eliminate this poverty indicator. The Jobbik also believes that there may be a political decision, as it is very unpleasant for the government to face devastating data in the heat of revolutionary governance. It must be recognised that the image of 4 million people with poverty is difficult to fit into the government's success propaganda. According to Zsolt Németh, Deputy President of the HCSO, however, it was decided only in professional terms that the publication would not be published in this form. He claimed that the indicator should be removed because it does not actually measure a minimum of living, but a level of decent, modest living. Thus, from a professional point of view, they believe that it is not suitable for measuring poverty, that the data generated are inadequate to serve as a basis for social policy decisions. In addition, he added that the name itself does not reflect the true content of the indicator. In its view, users have a different meaning than would result from the methodology. In fact, the minimum level of existence is not a poverty threshold, if many, in their view, misinterpreted it that way. What, on the other hand, is reality? The Hungarian population, Honourable Parliament, means exactly what it means in reality. The minimum amount of living represents a value that quantifys the minimum, yet socially acceptable, level of needs at the current consumer prices. This level is very modest. It is typical of providing only basic needs and is only sufficient to live from month to month. A minor exceptional expense or loss of income may also prevent the needs from being met. Thus, the income that does not reach the minimum of living is much to starve, little to make a living. It must be stated that it is not the fault of the indicator that 4 out of 10 Hungarians are among those living on a minimum income. All in all, we can say that the government is not looking for real responses to poverty eradication, to the rescue of those living in the decommissioned regions. Their poverty policy is limited to covering up their negative government decisions or their total lack of them with statistical data. Our country is a country where even the results of poverty indicators may simply not be made public if they show a frighteningly bad social picture. In reality, workers' poverty is also amazing in Hungary. It is unacceptable that the minimum wage is more than HUF 20,000 below the minimum wage. This could lead to social disaster in the medium term. On the other hand, Jobbik has real proposals to reduce poverty. This is where we mention the reduction of VAT on basic foods, articles for child rearing, to 5%; we need a fair, multi-key tax system, which, in addition to proportionate public burdens, protects the most difficult sections of society. In order to eliminate the extent and depth of poverty, it is necessary to have a genuine social consultation with both civilians and relevant professional organisations. It's the root of the problem. [[It's constant noise.]] It would be important for the government to bear in mind that Hungarian people have the right to decent work and decent wages, from which they can create a home, start a family, raise a child, and not least have the right to live a decent life. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, I would kindly ask my fellow Members to have a quieter conversation with their fellow Members, because it is impossible to hear the speaker. There's a lot of basic noise in the room. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.40]]
u2015-07-03-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It would be good if you were to be informed not only of the few media that you are editing yourself, because if you were aware of what the Hungarian newspapers are writing, what is happening in Hungarian politics, in Hungarian public life, what is happening on the street, you would not say here in the Hungarian Parliament that total social outrage was associated with the decision of the Statistical Office. It is as if a crowd of protesters besieged the Hungarian Parliament, waving flags in outrage, demanding that we count the indicators of poverty, not in this way, but in this way. It is as if the masses of desperate people are marching before the central office of the official bodies, the HCSO, and they say that it is intolerable that the Hungarian government wants to forge statistics. Honourable Congressman, Your speech was just as credible as the image you had here regarding the total social outrage, which obviously, we all know, does not exist, is not true. Just as it is not true that four million people in Hungary would be hungry, four million people would be poor. This is about as realistic a picture of Hungarian society as the socialists say in the House of Parliament when they talk about hunger for children, and they talk about tens of thousands of people starving every day, tens of thousands of children starving every day; when the socialists stand up and visualize child hunger in a way that is in the film Somewhere in Europe [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] It was seen as children orphaned in World War II the roads saved were walking in teams and begging. Then you, too, laugh at the socialists, my honourable fellow right-wing Members, say that the socialists on your right are not telling the truth, because they are not starving tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of children in Hungary. So Congressman Gyure, you didn't tell the truth either. It is not true that in Hungary four million people would be poor in such a way that they cannot buy food for themselves. Honourable Congressman, A year ago, you called on the government of Hungary to change the statistical procedures. I quote literally, in March 2014, you called on the Government and the Central Statistical Office to finally collect data to inform the population, create indicators and use concepts that provide credible information on people's general values of unemployment. The same can be expected, honourable Member, of the Central Statistical Office, which operates independently of the government and the government, when we talk about poverty. In the case of poverty, it has become quite clear, and this was a professional decision, honourable Member, that the methodology currently used and the indicators that we, by the way, know as a minimum indicator of existence are not suitable for showing the actual extent, proportion and modalities of poverty in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Central Statistical Office shall determine its methodology in accordance with domestic and international legislation binding on it, the Code of Practice for European Statistics and the document on Principles of Official Statistics adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Therefore, I must strongly reject the fact that, under political pressure, the government intends to change the research methodology which they consider appropriate or not to consider appropriate. The office has been struggling with the calculation of the minimum of living and its interpretation problems for years. On 24 June 2015, at a press conference on the subject, KSH demonstrated that the current minimum subsistence calculation is not suitable for measuring poverty, so the publication on this issue was published for the last time. First of all, the name of the indicator is misleading, because, as can be read in the detailed methodological description, instead of simply maintaining existence, to which the name can be associated, it counts as a socially acceptable standard of living, starting from 2,400 calories of food consumption and taking into account also cultural, entertainment and educational costs. At the same time, it covers the actual poverty in society, as its limit is relatively close to the social average. As a result, it is unfit to present the situation of those who are actually living in difficult circumstances. Therefore, the reason for eliminating the indicator and the publication is not that there are too many poor people and what you said, honourable Member, as stated in the article of the Index, and, as you said, the aim is to give the interested parties a more accurate picture of the layers of Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. The friendship of the Hungarian and Serbian people with the title of economic immigrants must not be ruined. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. It is now recognised by everyone, including those who denied that Europe is facing an unprecedented wave of immigration a few weeks ago. In fact, it is a mistake to call it immigration, for we are witnessing migration, which is unprecedented in modern history. This year more than 70,000 people have come to Hungary across the green border, and many countries of Western Europe are considering sending back to Hungary those who were first registered in Hungary. So we are under pressure from two directions, both from the south and from the west. Economic immigration to Hungary is unacceptable. We can't and we don't want to take in so many immigrants. Two weeks ago, the Hungarian government decided to establish a technical border closure at the southern EU border to curb migration. Each country has the right to defend its own borders, but it is not only the right but also the duty of the members of the European Union to protect the common Schengen borders. In the light of the data, it is clear that the government's decision to establish a technical border closure is justified. We don't have to explain ourselves to anyone because we protect ourselves. Member States would also be obliged to register immigrants entering their territory, but some do not do so. This is how many people appear in the common European foreign police system as if they had first entered the territory of the Union in Hungary, even though everyone had to take a look at the map: they had to cross at least one other EU country. We should also have no illusions that if we fail to stop illegal immigrants south of us, this will happen to the west of us, and the immigrants will be stuck with us. When announcing the establishment of the border closure, the liberal opposition, as usual, looked not at the interests of Hungarians, but at the interests of immigrants. He did not think of protecting Hungarians from immigrants, but of making immigrants feel as comfortable as possible while they were in Hungary, i.e. they took a pro-immigration position. The usual siren sounds also sounded, and the deterioration of Hungarian-Serbian relations was visualized. It didn't take a week for reality to defy pro-immigration. The Hungarian and Serbian cabinet held a joint government meeting the day before yesterday, after which Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said at the international press conference that Serbia's relations with Hungary have never been so good in modern history. The good relationship between the two countries is shown by the fact that the Serbian delegation could be a member of the Serbian delegation, István Pásztor, President of the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, and to the Hungarian delegation Alexov Lyubomir is a Serbian parliamentary spokesman. It should be noted here that the pro-immigration opposition has not played the slightest role in the development of this good relationship, as it is the result of the courageous decisions of the government led by the Serbian Progressive Party, the mutually supportive policy of the two governments, and not to a small extent the personal friendship of the two prime ministers. The Serbian and Hungarian governments share in common the fact that they are both political in the interests of their own people, as opposed to some vague internationalist ideology, and therefore understand if the other one does the same. Hungary and Serbia are mutually dependent on each other in terms of economic, energy and security policy, and since both peoples have governments that look at the interests of their nation, they can rely on each other, trust and trust each other. [[9.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, We can safely say that this friendship cannot be ruined by economic immigrants or by the pro-immigration opposition. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-07-03-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Szijjártó wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-07-03-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, I think I should start by stating that cooperation between Hungary and Serbia has never been so good, ever so smooth and never more effective than it is now. The data on trade flows between the two countries clearly support this statement, as last year the volume of trade flows between Hungary and Serbia exceeded EUR 1.7 billion, to which it contributed greatly by the fact that Hungarian exports have reached the highest value of all time towards Serbia, and in the first quarter of this year we were able to achieve a further 2.5 percent increase in trade flows. In order to increase the share of Hungarian and Serbian companies in the commercial sector, Eximbank opened a EUR 45 million credit line to facilitate the financing of the cooperation of companies in the two countries. Honourable Congressman, You are absolutely right that Hungary and Serbia are dependent on each other, because we share the challenges of looking to the future and we need to find common answers to them. We also have geopolitical interests in common, because it is very important to say that we Central European countries do have legitimate geopolitical interests, and we rightly expect countries which are no doubt stronger than us to take account of the geopolitical interests of Central European countries in Central Europe when planning their geopolitics. The Hungarian and Serbian geopolitical interests can be summarised among three groups: peace in the Central and Eastern European region; energy security in the Central and Eastern European region; and free trade in the Central and Eastern European region. Accordingly, we have concluded agreements and reviewed the state of play of our joint development programmes accordingly. First of all, I would like to report to you that the events of the past period have made it even more clear that significant progress is needed in terms of energy security in Central Europe and the Balkans, since Gazprom, E.ON, OMV and Shell have agreed that the North Stream will be strengthened and a southern gas corridor will be created. We Central Europeans and the Balkan countries have an interest in creating a gas pipeline link between Turkey and Central Europe, and Serbia and Hungary have a privileged role to play in this, all the more so that neither Romanian nor Croatian friends until now, despite their bilateral and EU obligations, have not made the investments that would allow us to import gas from them, and from 2019 there is a real risk that gas transit through Ukraine will be stopped. I would therefore like to emphasise once again that the high-capacity gas pipeline link between Turkey and Central Europe is in our common interest. In the same way, it is in our common interest that Chinese goods arriving in the ports of Greece, including Pireus, via Serbia and Hungary, within the framework of a single zone, a road, will be delivered through Serbia and Hungary, and we will finally take advantage of the benefits of our geographical location, so that the development of the railway line between the two capitals, the two-tracking of which is a common and very important investment goal, especially as this will be the flagship of regional cooperation in China-Central Europe. We will build a railway line that can withstand the highest axle pressure freight trains, so we will ensure that Chinese goods are transferred from Pyreus to Western Europe through Serbia and Hungary. I would like to inform you, Vice-President of the Group, that on 16 July the joint working group of the Chinese, Serbian and Hungarian governments will meet in Budapest, which will now be responsible for the adoption of a single feasibility study and the opening of financing negotiations. I would also like to inform you that we have decided to transfer new border crossing points. At the end of the month, we return the old border crossing between Röszke and Horgos, in 2016 we open border crossing points at Bácsszentgyörgy and in 2017 at Kübekháza. The temporary security barrier is built to prevent violations and border violations of illegal, illegal and illegal people. For honest people, we open the border, and for those who come with dishonest intentions, we close it. That is why we have made it clear to our Serbian friends that the construction of the temporary safety barrier has nothing to do with bilateral relations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-07-03-20	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. The speech following today's agenda has been submitted by Mr President Novák, Jobbik Group; Mr László György Lukács, Mr Jobbik Group. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Government is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of extraordinary meetings for today's and Monday's day in order to discuss 23 proposals. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our extraordinary meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the Parliament to act as XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas. T/5349. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, it shall depart from the house rules in such a way that it may submit an amendment to the bill by Monday 31 August. A proposal to derogate from the house rules can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule 137 yes, 5 with no vote, without abstention. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the proposal will take place at today's sitting as the last item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/5416 on the establishment of a temporary security border closure and on the amendment of migration-related laws. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government proposes that it be possible to submit amendments today until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken. The consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall take place at the meeting on 6 July. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/5416 is accepted. the submission of a proposal to an exceptional procedure, as set out in the national proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings 109 yes, 34 with no vote and no abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be submitted by 13:00 today. The draft bill will be held in a consolidated debate, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote will take place at our extraordinary meeting on Monday 6 July. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with the Commission's reports on the proposals, the discussion of its summarised amendments and a general debate. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I'm ordering a two-minute recess until we resume our work. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear Parliament, Once again, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats; and who, in order to carry out an immortal public task, must leave the Chamber, please do so as quickly as possible. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations follows. Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and the corresponding procedural rules. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. István Németh Szilárd, representative of Fidesz, submitted T/5128. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-07-03-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I hereby inform the Parliament that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 2 July the T/5128. CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. a bill amending the Act, to which it adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report, with 20 votes in favour and 11 votes against. The purpose of the amendment is to settle the case where the founder dies or dies without successor and there is no person or organisation designated for the exercise of the founding rights at the Foundation. In this case, the Ptk. it contains an appropriate private-law solution, but it can be pointed out that the exercise of both the Board and the founding rights of the court cannot be considered an ideal situation. If the founder dies or ceases to exist, the structure cannot be restored according to its original state of operation, but if the foundation is otherwise operational and able to achieve its objectives, the system of standards should be sought to provide solutions that can be used to complete the original function of the foundation bodies. The Legislative Committee has made its own amendment proposal, which contains clarifications on deadlines and transitional provisions. Our committee adopted this amendment by 23 votes in favour, 11 against. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two speakers presented the minority opinion formulated in the committee in a total time frame of seven minutes. Mr György Szilágyi, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, is not yet in the room. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2015-07-03-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The minority position was, in fact, almost the only thing that was said at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. In practice, the motivation for the submission of the law was revived, and all opposition parties considered it unacceptable. The MEPs pointed out that it is wrong for the legislator to carry out personalised legislation, and because the Fidesz municipality of Csepel has failed to obtain the Labour Home Foundation by any loophole, they have now submitted a legislative proposal allowing this to be possible. The opposition resented the fact that all of this would be completed with an amendment proposal which would make the acquisition of this foundation even easier by the municipality, making the situation even clearer, leaving even less room for the process to happen differently. In other words, he wants to create a perfectly sure solution for Szilárd Németh, who is the author of this legislation and the Fidesz mayor to finally acquire and obtain this foundation and, of course, the property owned by the foundation. This is what opposition representatives considered unacceptable and therefore did not support either the proposal or the amendment proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Miklós Soltész: Thank you very much. Applause!]]
u2015-07-03-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Szilágyi has not arrived, so we will continue our work. I would like to ask Mr István Szilárd Németh if he would like to speak up now as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] The Member points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. You'll have ten minutes of time. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to respond. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the Group of the LMP.
u2015-07-03-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'm almost ashamed of myself instead of the author when the T/5128 in front of us is T/5128. Bill No. 1 will be mentioned in the National Assembly. Based on its title, we might think that there is serious legislative work going on, as it sounds so professional: amendment of the law on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. But when you look at the contents, the reality, you don't need a name like that. This amendment of the law is Szilárd lex rezsi itself, indeed, this amendment does not make Hungarian civilian life more diverse, does not help citizens' grassroots initiatives, it does not provide any more resources for important purposes, from traditionalism to social work to environmental protection. This law, my fellow Members, serves only one purpose: that the local allies of Szilárd Németh, a Fidesz politician in Csepel, can get the Csepel Workers' Home from his current operators. [[10.10]] That's what they've come up with, a devious legal opportunity, and that's what they're trying to legislate. Therefore, and for no other reason was the provision that the founding rights should be transferred to the local government after the death or termination of the founders, for example in the case of Csepel, in a highly adaptable manner. So far, if the founding provision was not valid in such cases, the Boards have exercised these rights. This obviously disturbed the Fidesz in Csepel, which rather constitutes legislation so that the Fidesz majority government can take over the workhouse in the form of a foundation. Thank you for your attention. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2015-07-03-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, an independent representative. You have the floor.
u2015-07-03-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I'll be very brief. Here, in the general debate, the two opposition speakers have already given me the substance of the problem. Honestly, it's kind of embarrassing for me as the congressman of Csepel and Soroksar to discuss. The fact is that this whole problem should have been discussed in a negotiated manner. I also suggest that the representative of the government, who did not want to comment on the matter just now, should talk to Szilárd Németh about the negotiations they have had on this matter. In fact, there was no trial, there were constantly ultimatums handed over and blackmailed, rather than being resolved in a negotiated manner, Congressman, because - in order to avoid misunderstandings - I also think that we need to find a way for the municipality to somehow influence what is going on in the Workhouse. We also said in our electoral programme that in some way the municipality should be inside the property, but not in this way, not with such legislation, but with compromises and negotiations. In recent days, for example, instead of trying to negotiate, the municipality is now calling the inhabitants of Csepel with a directed question. And by the way, you could see how upset the Csepelians were: there were two protests in the last week and a half, and there were hundreds of others on both. So I would urge the government representative to ask Szilárd Németh to begin the trial. I've offered to help you before, and I'm offering to do it now, not in this way, but in a court of law. I think this is the normal and European solution. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-03-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-07-03-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would also like to comment briefly on the subject. Indeed, there were many points to argue about associations, to change the law, and there are many problems that could have been solved even before summer break. We are very sorry that the main problem of the Fidesz-KDNP majority is to continue with personalised legislation. What lies before us is a proposal - as my fellow Member István Szávay has already said in the general debate - really about how to play the Csepel Workers' Home Foundation to Szilárd Németh or, perhaps, to the circles associated with it. Obviously, time will decide if that is the case. Of course, the information will be obtained. I also have to say that, according to our information and, as has been said in the general debate, the Labour Home Foundation was then replayed by the MSZMP cadres in the 1990s, and it is true that the accountability or review of this is true - I know that too much time has passed, but - we would support the recovery of the situation in any way. So let's clear this up, let's see how, how the Workers' Home Foundation got there to those people who are at the moment, or in any way we can reclaim this situation, but handing it over from one interest to another is not acceptable to us in this way, in this form. During the four-year mayorship of Szilárd Németh, it was also possible to see that there were debates with the Labour Home Foundation and the Csepel Workers' Home, so he has a past, a past known to the locals, and in this form it is not the court, but the municipality will decide who will represent these rights after the death of the founder, who will exercise these rights, it is quite clear that the present Fidesz municipal leadership will benefit, and in this form it is indeed true and can be said that Szilárd Németh will be linked to the submission, and will benefit from it in the form that they will decide how the founder's rights will be designated. Of course, we cannot support the presentation in this form, but in future we will monitor how the municipality will use these rights, and if this happens in a way that is unacceptable, we will also give it a voice, and obviously the local public will handle it in its place, at the earliest or worst, during the elections in 2018 and, respectively. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on this item. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-07-03-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Since the MSZP has grown together like this, the Together and the Jobbik have grown together. [[István Ikotity: Meg a LMP.]] Mr Szabolcs Szabó, of course, could at least have agreed on this subject - and even the LMP, of course - because Mr Szabolcs Szabó said that it had never been discussed in the past period, while I was mayor - although he was still in Békéscsaba, or I don't know where he lived, he had little to do with Csepel. [[Szabolcs Szabó: That's not true. You know very well that Csepelen...]] - and our good-looking congressman-colleague says there have been ongoing negotiations over the past four years. So please agree on what unjust statements should be made here within the walls of Parliament. The fears that have been said here -- grabbing, personal revenge, stretching, embarrassing themselves, and so on -- this is such a persecution freak story, in my opinion, so I cannot deal with it here in Parliament; I think that there are very good pharmaceuticals for this, so turn to the doctors with such fears. And perhaps I would like to say more about civil protesters that the story - we have written a list - was so much that practically the entire opposition segment appeared: former politicians, current politicians, everyone who belongs to the team, who have this fear of what will happen to the Workplace now. These aren't civilian people. They do this civil thing when you want to; when in some way you do not dare come to the sun before the community, to tell what you represent as a party politician, you immediately become civilians and immediately become a civilian at the Csepel Workers' Home. I've already offered you this book published in 64 by former director Tibor Drucker, and here he's exposing himself to civil society on page 10. The other day, I read in Parliament this incredible civility that all civil society associations, the illegal class warrior struggles, were in the working home. But if you read it, you can see on page 82 who have put together this whole system, who have put together the foundation, who have entered the Foundation's Board of Directors, and who have left the property of the Csepelians to ruin, as the people of Csepel contributed practically to the construction of this system, and in the 1960s it was probably possible to spend money on low actions to make it possible to renew it. Since then, except for the first renovation of the theatre hall under the Orbán government, nothing has happened in this building. About that much about civility. Technically, it would have been possible to set up a basic organizational assembly of MSZMPs, or a good work force rally in the neighborhood of civilians. So it is not worth lying all the time, it is not worth constantly stunning people in the parliamentary horseshoe, because according to the Hungarian saying, the liar is caught before the lame dog. And the truth? Well, I don't want this Workhouse for myself, people. I'm his author. It is true that I was the mayor for four years, while I wanted it to become public property, to be owned by the municipality, to the property of the municipality such as the House of Culture of the Királyerdei or the Miklós Radnóti Cultural House, and the municipality can operate it as a cultural house for the benefit of the Csepelians. That's not what's happening right now, and you know it, and you know it exactly as much as I do. So with great respect, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal for a resolution and the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.20]]
u2015-07-03-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Monday. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Erik Bánki, Imre Vas Fidesz MEPs submitted T/5239. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-07-03-33	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 2 July 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. T/5239. Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, consisting of 11 points, of which some points were not supported by the wallet, as they were clarified in the own amendment of the TAB. I would point out that the amendment is intended to ensure that legal gambling operators can only provide access to gambling in a way that prevents or minimises the harmful mental, psychic and social effects of gambling. I would also like to point out that the provisions of the bill on the introduction of online casino games regardless of distance gambling, in order to reduce social risks and to ensure consumer protection and game protection interests, the proposal provides for a high level of fines for illegal gambling advertising. Those amendments were adopted by the Committee by 20 votes in favour and 5 votes against. The aim of this proposal is to increase public tax revenues from gambling, while at the same time taking action against the extremely widespread illegal gambling organisation through a means of communication and a system. On the one hand, the proposal sets out detailed rules for the organisation of the online casino by means of a communication tool and system in order to ensure that the Hungarian organizer can legally organise online casino games and on the other hand enable effective action against the current illegal organizers, resulting in the current Hungarian online casino market being whitened and the tax on illegally collected income and exported from the country will now flow into the budget. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 21 votes in favour and 10 votes against. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, the minority rapporteur of the committee, within a 7-minute time frame.
u2015-07-03-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Almost all opposition members of the committee expressed their views on the proposal. The debate was too heated and not free of emotion and personalism, which was evident at this committee's meeting because we have been trying to avoid this. However, opposition members of the committee did not necessarily have problems with the content of the amendments, although they also had problems with the content and purpose of this law. The opposition members of the committee discussed the amendments, and this was where they found some of the amendments, a former Member who had found some elements that could be supported, but there was a number of doubts about the amendments. On the one hand, it does not remedy the real problem of this law, namely that it wants to provide access to gambling by making almost a name for those who can acquire it; all of them were in this not-so-long roll of names, headed by Andy Vajna. On the other hand, it introduces an anti-law element that is not acceptable, since the Fundamental Law provides otherwise. The amendments made by the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee were therefore not supported by the Committee and, on the other hand, had a real debate on the content of the Act. On the one hand, there are serious doubts that this law can remedy illegal betting and illegal gambling, and, on the other hand, that the budget will lose revenue by legalising such a legislation. As I have already mentioned, access to a well-known gambling segment is available to two players, since it can be operated by those with a casino concession. According to the law, it can also be concluded that if a segment of gambling is added to these players without a concession fee, it will result in a loss of revenue for the budget. It causes a loss of revenue, since this could be resolved in a different way, by selling a real concession right by the legislator. On the other hand, the procedure in which personalised legislation is taking place - egressing some actors in Hungarian and other players in gambling - was unacceptable to opposition representatives. [[In the notary seat, the gullible Dezső will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] Another element raised in the debate, as I have already mentioned, in the procedure of the NAV, is all kinds of suspensive effects and judicial decisions, i.e. immediate enforcement without appeal. This element, which has come up, is one of the most interesting stories in Hungary, namely the case of the so-called Flipper Museum, which was declared gambling on the one hand, not the other, and on the other hand it was hit with a terrible fine that would make it impossible to operate. And this precedent - the fact that they wanted this character out of here - is not a very good message for any character who wants to be involved in this. Mr President, Dear House, I tried to briefly sum up this otherwise strikingly long debate, i.e. a remarkably long debate compared to the practice of the Legislative Committee, which, as I said, was not without emotion, and at that time I was still subtle. At the same time, because of the content of the law, the representatives of the socialists present - and I dare hope that the other opposition Members too - did not support the amendments either, so we clearly voted 'no' on this issue. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity and thank you for your attention.
u2015-07-03-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will now ask Erik Bánki, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Erik Bánki: In the end, only as a closing point.]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, said that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform you that there will be a total period of 10 minutes during the debate for your speech. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[András Tállai says no.]] Secretary of State says no. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2015-07-03-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to quote Gábor Bencsik, a great friend of Fidesz. This is how he said in April this year about our competitive disadvantage against Western countries and companies. The Hungarian State can do one thing: intervene roughly, in violation of the written and unwritten rules of the liberal market economy, and seek out those Hungarian competitors who can win in such circumstances. In other words, it creates the national bourgeoisie by force. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.30]] Looking at the last five years of Fidesz, this could be a good summary, an ideology at first sight. Every time we catch you artificially redistributing entire markets, opening up huge opportunities, personalised loopholes to your billionaire pals, they defend themselves; with the false argument that there is a need to deal with the disadvantages facing Western countries, this can be solved by arbitrary override of the rules of genuine fair competition, by assigning new winners. But the reality is quite different. National bourgeoisie, national citizenship, in the interpretation of Fidesz, means a very small, billion-dollar layer. The five-year government of Fidesz did not improve the standard of living of the majority of Hungarian workers and families. The ideology of the alleged national bourgeoisie favors only some selected, super-rich oligarchs, and in reality it has just become the most important obstacle to progress. Not only is this kind of governance unfair and outrageous, but it is also immensely harmful. Why? What's wrong with that? Because, fellow Members, if the winners are appointed from above, if the only condition of success is good relations with the governing party, then there is no honor for diligence, talent, work. If the chosen ones were to win anyway, they would expect a stronger willingness to innovate in society, even if we expected Hungarian small businesses to become more competitive, establishing lasting growth. This logic is leaking, and it applies not only at the top, but in all areas of life. This brings back the world of party secretaries and janitors. The current law on online casinos fits perfectly in this logic. In the general debate, we have also said that this law serves the interests of two people, two casino owners: Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. Even if the summary modifier requires responsible gaming organisation to mitigate the social risks of gambling, or if illegal gambling advertising is sanctioned. And yes, my fellow Members, it is just a beauty patch that there is no provision limiting the number of online casinos to two. Because in practice, the selection of the national bourgeoisie will receive new greasy bites, first a casino concession, then a right to open the online casino. Fidesz may find it a success to lift new oligarchs loyal to the government for at least a period of time. After the years of the socialist lords and Lajos Simicska Erik Bánki and his associates feel that this is the most important thing to do. But I would remind them once again that the price of raising the few selected is the poverty of millions, the emigration of half a million of our countrymen, the Hungarian regions that roam among the EU's forces. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If you vote in favour of this law, account for your conscience as you can, but on behalf of the LMP too, if the voters will see this in three years' time at the latest, they will also have to count on these years of government before the Hungarian people. The proposal is rejected, and we encourage the other groups to do so.
u2015-07-03-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the amendment of the Gambling Act, I can say the same thing I said last week: in addition to the fact that this online casino law is too hasty and hasty, I must state that it is also a terribly impertinent bill. In this way, they are basically adding two people who are not in need, and thus, I think, will cause a legitimate outrage throughout Hungarian society. And in order for everyone to understand clearly what has happened in this country over the last few years, we need to go back a little bit to the past. Two or three years ago, one day at a time - for reasons of national security - you stopped the slot machines that could be operated at catering venues, and I suppose you referred to national security reasons because this does not need to be explained. Thus they took away the livelihood of thousands of families overnight. So what happens now? Here we are after three years, and we see that the income that thousands of families have made a living from is simply in the pockets of two people, Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. Because no one should have any doubts about it... because it could have been a very sympathetic reference, that perhaps when the head of the family receives his salary and goes into the local liquor store for a beer, he throws his money into the slot machine there, thereby taking the money away from his family. I ask you: in 2015, the XXI. In the century, how many families do you think there are that don't have some kind of computer? And from then on, it's only one step away from doing that from home without, for example, going to the local liquor store. So this explanation, I think, is false and simply unacceptable to all thinking people. And it's all about, I would like to emphasise once again, that two friends, two friends, God knows for what reason - I leave it to everyone's own imagination - you're simply giving this billionaire business away. My colleague, György Szilágyi, and I have tabled amendments to the law, which you have rejected, I do not have to say. These amendments would have been capable of amending this law for practically two people in such a way that this business, this industry, would be accessible to other businesses. I think that decency would have wanted you to think, perhaps, of those families, of the hundreds of businesses that you made from one day to the next a few years ago. I think that integrity would have wanted you to leave these opportunities open to them, if not physically, but in the virtual world, they could run an online casino, but that's not what you did. It has been proven once again that you serve your own oligarchs, and it has been proven once again that you are filling the pockets of those from whom you expect something, I suppose, in return. But if we look more closely into this law and look not only at the moral but also at the technical side, it cannot be explained that you exclude foreign players from this opportunity with this law. I ask you how you intend to solve it - because technically it is not in this law - so that Hungarian players may not play with online casinos abroad; because this law does not solve this. And if the Fidesz is so, well-known, a fan of football, and they turn on a Champions League match anywhere in the country, they won't see anything on the side of the field like commercials from foreign gambling companies. From then on, someone hits the search engine and can register in practically two minutes. So I think that this law doesn't solve the fact that the money is coming out of your country at all. The other very important thing is that we do not see the guarantee in this law that illegal gambling operators can cease their activities; and I would like to emphasise once again that I am looking at things from a technical point of view. Because if you, although I hope you do not, but I can also imagine, do not want to introduce a Chinese type of Internet block, then this is technically impossible, honourable Members. And anyone who has some experience in IT knows very well that's the case. It is also very important to say on this issue - and we can rejoin the past a little bit - that you have not thought through the law about the social perception of this issue, and I am talking about the working ordinary people who live in cities, villages, anywhere in the country. [[10.40]] What does the average person see from your activities? He's seen a tramp dog, he's seen a dirt dog, he's seen a casino dog, he's just seen an online casino dog. The ordinary people, my fellow Members, see that you are a wider market - and this is tobacco, gambling, whatever it is - being lost by law and then handed out by another law to those you think you deserve. It could be brought in here as a question, and I would like to point out here that your legislation, unfortunately, has to be stated, is not thoughtful enough, and here you can also make a turn with Sunday's closure. A significant part of your voting base today also believes that shops should be open on Sunday. What I am experiencing and hearing from people is that the government and the current Parliament, without considering and examining the circumstances, are making laws, and unfortunately, we must declare that this online casino law is one of them. I have no doubt that you will vote for this, but I believe that, listening to the opinion of the ordinary people, this law will be nothing but a very good deal for two people, and it will be another nail in the coffin of the Fidesz, because people, my fellow Members, cannot be viewed as stupid because people are not stupid. People know very well what's happening in this country, and I'm going to go on, people - you, of course, that doesn't apply to you - unfortunately, they feel what's going on in this country, and the people and family members you've put on the ground over the last few years, believe me, your legislative trends and your governance will be delivered at the right time. That is all I wanted to say, and, of course, here I can say that Jobbik will not support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Bánki Erik, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Bánki Erik as rapporteur. You have the floor.
u2015-07-03-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to what has been said in this debate, first of all to Mr István Ikotity's proposals for legislation and its criticisms of its amendments. The Congressman is talking about the Government's attempt to redistribute the market with this bill or its amendments and to raise the selected ones. Honourable Congressman, This bill is not trying to redistribute the market, but is trying to regulate the market, as today there are different operators operating in the online betting market and online casino game market in a completely unregulated way, by circumventing taxes, without any revenue from the Hungarian public finances. The bill aims to exclude foreign service providers from the Hungarian market, and only provide Hungarian service providers with the possibility to operate within the framework of a concession, within a legal framework, and, mutatis mutandis, with a regulatory system that provides a guaranteed tax payment to Hungarian public finances. If we want to HUF the expected revenues, it will amount to somewhere between HUF 8 billion and HUF 10 billion. So we are not talking about the redistribution of the market, we are talking about the regulation of the market. In the end, he asked how he would account for his conscience. I would like to reassure my honourable fellow Member that there will be no problem with my conscience being accounted for. This legislation, its creation, modification, and spirit clearly aims to give families the opportunity, for example, to allow people with pathological gambling to take self-limiting steps, or, obviously, those who are under supervision to be limited by their supervisors, to be excluded from the game, so that players can limit themselves to the point of recognizing that they have a gambling problem, which causes significant losses for them and for their families. It is not beside the fact that minors can be banned from this market. I think that the legislation should be careful to ensure that minors are not allowed to participate in remote gambling. Congressman Zsolt Egyed suggested that the government took thousands of families' livelihoods when it banned slot machines and slot machines. Honourable Congressman, And I think that the government has not taken thousands of people's livelihoods, but has made the livelihoods of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of families better; precisely because we have locked away those people with gambling problems from playing games who have played forints of the family's livelihood in pubs and arcades. One of the most popular slot machines known as the one - armed robbers may be called for a reason, which could have been reached without limitation in any village tavern or in any small town's arcade. The proposal to limit the market to two people is not the case, since if my fellow Members carefully examined the amendment, which was accepted and submitted by the TAB, there is the third amendment. A new paragraph is added, in which it is stated that any company which has a concession on the market today will be given the opportunity to participate in the organisation of remote gambling. This, I understand, is still at least seven or eight companies, so I do not think that the proposal would like to limit the market to two. I think that the framework is carefully regulated and will do everything in its power to prevent the illegal market from operating in Hungary; moreover, there are quite serious items to regulate or restrict prohibited advertising. In my view, the important element of the amendment is that the possibility of liberalising sports betting is rejected, so the 100 percent Hungarian state-owned Szerencségy Zrt. and horse racing betting is still rejected by the 100% state-owned horse racing betting company. You may need to read it again. I think it is a very important element, as I have already said, of the range of playful protection measures, the possibility of self-exclusion and the prohibition of minors. In the Member States of the European Union, this is a long-established model, in this respect, I think that by adopting the legislation we will catch up with EU legislation and create the framework that can be expected both from the point of view of public finances and from the point of view of protecting players in Hungary today. So I urge everyone to support the bill and its amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Monday. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2014 will be discussed. H/4505 submitted by the Judicial Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that this proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Rubovszky, if he wishes to speak. [[On Dr. György Rubovszky's mark:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Congressman. A total time frame of 10 minutes is available for both the current speech and the closing. You have the floor.
u2015-07-03-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'll be very brief. As the President pointed out, no amendments were tabled to our proposal for a decision, and no amendments could be tabled to the report in accordance with the rules of the House, so the Justice Committee closed the detailed debate at its last meeting in the absence of an amendment. With all due respect, I would ask the House to accept the report in accordance with the resolution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'd like to inform you that there are nine minutes available to tell you the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask who the government wants to speak to. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] No one wants to comment. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, the Slovak ethnic advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. You have the floor, Congressman. [[10.50]]
u2015-07-03-45	Thank you for the floor. Vážen. Pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás vo svojom slovenskom materinskom jazyku v mene parlamentného V.boru pre národnosti v Ma. Arsku a prájem úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my Slovak mother tongue, I welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and wish you a successful meeting. At its meeting on 30 June as a committee related to the debate, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held the H/4505 on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates for the year 2014. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. The Committee, examining the proposal for a decision, concluded that it complies with the legal requirements. The Committee did not submit a proposal for an amendment to the Commission closing a detailed debate. So far, the dry facts. Our Commission really appreciated the report by László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights Marcel Szabó, spokesperson for future generations, and especially Erzsébet Szalayné Sándor, Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of National Rights. We also consider their findings to be very important and instructive in the area of nationality, not forgetting that, from the minority law adopted earlier in 1993, until the entry into force of the new Fundamental Law, he was also an independent parliamentary commissioner for the protection of ethnic and ethnic minority rights. At our committee meeting, it was said that, despite the positive but still possible human and staff relations, the institution of the independent nationality ombudsman must be restored in the ombudsman's office in order to ensure legal certainty and respect for nationalities in Hungary. In relation to the election of the representatives of the minority self-government, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy for nationality were concerned about the inclusion of census data in the electoral system, since their voluntary nature excluded the exact picture of the number of ethnic populations in a given settlement. The rules on conflicts of interest of representatives of national self-governments are also considered to be incomplete, contradictory and unjustified. A joint report by the Commissioner and his deputy found that there are a number of problems in the area of high-school education and education in nationality. It doesn't have a suitable replacement base, it doesn't provide a stable basis for the education of ethnic teachers, its material conditions are incomplete. Its basic function is in many cases not the right to ethnic education and language, but the education of a foreign language. The situation is most alarming in the area of Roma ethnic education, where the results of competence measurements are consistently and explicitly weak. The institutions are not able to adequately compensate for the social and social fallout of pupils with multiple disadvantages. In addition to education issues, the Ombudsman's list of nearly 200 complaints concerning nationality law last year mainly covered the following areas: social services, children's rights, housing problems, labour market discrimination, police actions. It is also apparent from the types of complaints that citizens with the highest Roma nationality have turned to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Nationality. The gripping elements of the ombudsman's report over 300 pages suggest that its creators have indeed held a credible mirror not only to our nationality but also to our whole society. Mirrors cry out for solutions and actions. As a first step, I recommend to this House, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary, a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2014 and a proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee on its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-07-03-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the time frame available. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group.
u2015-07-03-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik for Hungary Movement does not accept this report or votes against the report, so we cannot accept it in any way. We see in the report that the role of the Ombudsman would be to have a certain counterweight to the government and to try to protect rights - human rights, minority rights and other rights - which may or may not be damaged by government or social problems. That would be your basic task. Of course, the Bureau has tried to comply with this in a certain way, which can be seen from the drafting of the report. It has also been said in the general debate, which are the points for which parties generally support and accept this report, and what we disagree with. Basically, the fact that the main social problems are not being made public or entered in the Commission's reports as incorrect findings is that they are not real. I also mentioned in the general debate what are the most important aspects that we cannot agree with. Let's run through it in an exemplary manner. There are many problems in health care. What are the most important things? On the one hand, we can talk about the closure of hospitals, the reduction of beds, waiting lists of many months and, if necessary, years. We were waiting for the problem to come to light. The patient's right to recovery is violated in these cases. What we're seeing is that some parts of it have inadequate health care in areas where a kind of hospital care group is terminated that goes to county level. We are waiting for a description of these, but the report says that patients' rights are less damaged than in previous years, with fewer patient rights complaints. I see that the report does not highlight the real problems in this area. But look at the problem of education. It is understandable that the ombudsman's report deals primarily with the education of minorities in school, but I think that this should have included someone else, such as the KLIK problem, the problems that this restructuring causes in the education system, the problem of integrated education, the problem of textbook provision, the fact that children usually do not have textbooks in September, or half of them do not have textbooks. But I could also mention that since there is a certain amount of money to come out of, but it doesn't fit into, children can only have access to certain textbooks on the Internet, or by copying them themselves or printing them for themselves. This is a serious violation of the children's right to education. They were also not included in the report, and in our view this is missing. It has an outstanding area in the report to investigate the causes of poverty. We cannot agree at all with the findings contained in the report. The report focuses on the poverty of the Roma population. I quote the reasons for this. There are findings in the Ombudsman's report that the phenomenon of institutional discrimination can be observed, and social prejudice in everyday practice, and exclusion of the Roma population. The ombudsman's report sees the causes of the poverty of the Roma population. It does not deal with the social problems it has, what it brings from the family, what it receives, what the family carries in which the child grows up. He does not look at these, but has findings that there is discrimination, social prejudice, exclusion and so on. We can't agree with that either. Then it is an important deficiency that we drew attention to during the debate at the committee meeting that, thanks to the basic legislative amendments and the amendments to the legislation between 2010-14, the individual does not have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court in the event that a new law would be illegal and illegal. [[11.00]] That's no longer the right of the congressman. But this opportunity has gone to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. We would think that a series of requests for review should be submitted to the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Court when some of the rights of individuals are undermined and a law is contrary to other legislation. In that case, a series of claims should be made. Obviously, we know that this can only be initiated by the joint signing of 25 percent of the Parliament; Members and Members of the Parliament cannot initiate such an initiative on their own. So he would be the primary forum to take on this, who should be active in this. You can see that didn't happen. In fact, we can see that, and it is clear from the statistics that, compared to the contents and figures of previous years, compared to the number of such constitutional initiatives in previous years, there has been a withdrawal. So there are even fewer initiatives, even though we believe that this number should be at least ten times higher, but it might also have to be much bigger. In fact, this is probably what a separate part of the office should be dealing with, as there are virtually no other people with such an opportunity to turn to the Constitutional Court. Then, what was missing from it: even in the criticism of the 2013 report, my better fellow Members have expressed the fact that there is no abuse of elections which, by the way, undermines the rights of individuals or their right to election. At the time, the reference was that 2013 was not the year of the elections. Although I note that there have been interim elections where there have also been cases of abuse, problems that are repeatedly present in an election when a particular social group is used in its entirety by certain political parties, and with the prospect of an advantage, their votes will be bought quasi. Therefore, it could have been that, even from a human rights point of view, these problems could have been investigated. 2014 was indeed a year of elections. We've made three choices, but nothing like this has happened. The Ombudsman's report did not deal with anything else but conflict of interest rules in this area, which had very minimal importance. But in the same way we should have looked at the local governments, the minority self-governments, the situation of these, which he did, but again from a completely different aspect. He did not examine the abuse that could be involved, or the abuse that the National Roma Municipality actually had. Obviously, that's not your job, because, where appropriate, you have the authority and authority of a prosecutor, a investigative body, and other bodies. But from the point of view of how the rights of minorities are violated when these funds, which are put there to catch up with minorities, do not go to the place to which they might be targeted, or where the Parliament has declared its will, but are placed in completely different places, this is a very, very serious violation of the rights of minorities. These are the ones that this report does not address at all. These problems, I think, should have been reported in such a report, and not limited to what appears in itself. Because if we take this as a social mirror, which the Ombudsman has also mentioned here in his report, then I think we will get a very twisted picture of Hungarian society, we will get a very twisted picture of the most important problems of Hungarian society. I think exactly what was missing from this ombudsman's report was what would have given us a real picture. That's what we needed. That is why we do not think the Ombudsman's report is good. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-07-03-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-07-03-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is obviously a long list of problems in Hungarian society that this report does not mention. I would rather say a few sentences or ideas about what is in this report and report. The report presents the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on more than 300 pages, giving a comprehensive picture of both the operation of the Ombudsman's office, its international relations and the situation of the key fundamental rights in Hungary. It contains a separate chapter on the implementation of certain fundamental rights in Hungary, detailing specific matters. The report embraces several areas: children's rights, the rights of nationalities, the protection of a healthy environment, the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of the most vulnerable groups. These are the main elements found in the report. There are also concrete cases initiated by the Commissioner, for example, in 2014 he attacked Kaposvár's decree restricting the rights of homeless people, against the Land Traffic Act at the Constitutional Court, and against the so-called zone decree of the Municipality of Budapest to protect the rights of homeless people. It is memorable that in 2014, Máté Kocsis spoke against the Mayor of Józsefváros and against the procedure of the municipality, László Székely published a report on the needle exchange programme. The report also pays remarkable attention, and obviously the activity is also about the fate of homeless people. And as we have heard from Mr Fuzik, the report draws attention, in the light of the experience of the national minority municipal elections, to the fact that it may be justified not only to link census data to the establishment of national elections. I think that the Hungarian Parliament will also have to deal with this. The report also contains a chapter on the situation of the Roma, which shows the shocking extent of extreme poverty and the reasons that led to it. Cooperation with civil society organisations remains visible from the report, which is also an important virtue of the ombudsman's organisation. The MSZP maintains its criticism of the new structure of the Ombudsman established in the Fundamental Law, in particular the abolition of the autonomy of specialised ombudsmans and the elimination of the institution of the Data Protection Commissioner. At the same time, we appreciate the work of the Commissioner and his alternates in the field of legal protection. The submitted report, as I have already mentioned, gives a comprehensive picture of the situation of fundamental rights in Hungary and faithfully reflects the most serious problems of Hungarian society at present. In view of this, the MSZP supports the adoption of a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2014. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-07-03-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the time frame available. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Rubovszky, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to participate in the repeated general debate. According to the rules of the in-depth debate, there was no motion, so I cannot comment on any substantive observations. Otherwise, in general, let me just say that I do not see any difference between acting as deputy and acting as an ombudsman. Even more so, because according to the old system, there was a single office at the disposal of the ombudsmen. This office is unitedly under the authority of the Commissioner and under the leadership of the Secretary-General, and there are full, perhaps even wider, powers of deputies than they used to be. I would like to emphasise this particularly in the area of nationality rights. When he was an independent ombudsman, there was no representative body during that period. Now, in addition to the fact that there is a broader deputy Commissioner, the advocates of all nationalities are sitting here in Parliament and can immediately address the violation of their own nationality. In addition, I do not wish to go into the details. Thank you very much, I continue to ask for the adoption of the report and the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.10]]
u2015-07-03-52	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is, of course, closed. Dear Parliament, Our resolution will take place at our meeting on Monday. Dear Parliament, Following is the discussion of the Commission's reports on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2014 and the presentation of the report on the operation of the institution for Parliament. H/5035 submitted by the Economic Committee. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner if he wishes to speak as rapporteur at this time or later in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Dear Parliament, I have not noticed any intention of speaking on the part of the Government, so I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, the German nationalist advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2015-07-03-53	Thank you very much. Sehr geehter Vorsitzende! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir, dass ich den Standpunkt des Ausschusses, der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten über das Informationsmaterial des Staatlichen Rechnungshofs B/4745 das für das Parlament zusammengestellt wurde, dartelle. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at B/4745. Information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2014 and on the presentation to Parliament on the operation of the institution. Reading the material, the first strong opinion is that if there is an institution and organisation in Hungary today, which treats the nationalities and self-governments living in Hungary, so to speak, according to their importance and weight, and even provides strong positive discrimination, it is definitely the State Audit Office of Auditors. In 2014, 233 reports were issued by the Court of Auditors, of which 105, 45% and almost half of them were carried out on the control of local ethnic authorities. If I add that in 2014 there was a parallel process and this year the comprehensive controls of national minority authorities for 2010-14, i.e. five years, as well as the SAO audits of regional minority self-governments, I think it is obvious to everyone that the control of national minority self-governments is now an essential part of the activities of the State Audit Office. I would like to make it clear right now that we welcome this activity from the SAO, because we believe that the studies carried out by a truly independent, professionally prepared apparatus give us an objective and undisputable picture of the operation of the minority self-governments, which is a significant help for us. We also appreciate as a special positive that in December 2014 the State Audit Office of Hungary carried out a summary study on the 155 national minority self-government audits already closed in 2013 and 2014, the findings of which were assessed with the heads of the SAO in a separate committee meeting. It is reassuring to us that, out of the 50 marks submitted by the State Audit Office to the investigating authorities in 2014, the minority authorities are only 4 percent They are included in other bodies, even though nearly 50 percent of closed reports and more than 20 percent of recipients are ethnic authorities. This clearly means that the operation and management of local minority self-governments is clean and legal. However, there are, of course, parts of the report that we consider not to be sufficiently pronounced or that make us think further. One of these points is the cooperation, relations between local authorities and local self-governments, and the vulnerability of local minority self-governments. According to the nationality law, of course, the local government and the municipal minority self-government are equal partners, but in most cases it does not work. The SAO report clearly states that the operation of minority self-governments is highly vulnerable to the functioning of municipal authorities. It is very instructive to note that the State Audit Office has made 2642 findings in 2014, of which 1206 have been formulated in connection with the control of national authorities. This is a very high number, but if you look at its internal breakdown, 74 percent of the 1206 statements, three quarters of them are addressed by the local government - notary, notary, mayor - which the investigated national governments have nothing to do with in the world. The irregularities and shortcomings that arise in relation to the municipalities of nationality, but in the operation of the municipalities, we consider that they should not be in the reports of the municipalities of nationality, but in the reports of the municipalities. This is proposed for reflection on the future. Finally, I would like to inform you that the State Audit Office is B/4745. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary agrees with the proposal for a decision made by the Economic Commission on its report No.3 and proposes that the Parliament adopt it. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the spokespersons and the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-54	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2015-07-03-55	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity. They put us in a very difficult position when it seems that there should be a summary debate about what could not be provoked or generated, even though it is apparent that Jobbik's faction has been very lenient about the SAO's report on its activities: for many years we have expressed a position that is critical, but it is possible to leave the possibility of development open. What we are now seeing is that in the general debate we have formulated in a very detailed, very concrete way the extremely painful shortcomings and the expectations that we must raise both against the Court of Auditors' activities and against the government, in order to force the intervention instruments with which the efficiency indicators of the national economy can be improved. But what we see is that the report before us, which we are in fact in such a detailed discussion phase, simply does not meet the standards - partly by law - that should be met. To give an example: you are trying to encourage us to adopt a report on which the President of the SAO does not disclose aggregated national data, we do not know whether he will have us checked every year, every five years or every twenty years, where appropriate. And as I told you the other day, it's 5. In paragraph 4 of the Rules on the Court of Auditors, there is a clause which is very, very important, according to point (a) of which it would be an urgent task to control the management of assets falling within the scope of public finances, the management of assets, the activities of state-owned, part-owned or majority self-government-owned entities to preserve and convert assets. This is a very, very important task. And what we see is that the SAO is putting down a report that does not control the vast parts of assets that MNV Zrt., MOL, MVM, MÁV, BKK, the defence or the TIG are managing. So we do not want to say that the SAO has accumulated a series of sinful omissions, but that there are some shortcomings here that we should be able to meet and on which we should have data. And we have a recurring obsession, if you will, and that is that there is a criminal omission by the government, which is an amazing lack of a national inventory, according to which we know nothing about national wealth. Yes, about certain elements of state wealth, but in terms of national wealth, it is completely ignorant of both the government and the Parliament that not only bridges, main roads, small trains - as you have tried to register - but we simply do not know the entire strategic wealth of the country. [[11.20]] In paragraph 1, the Court of Auditors provides for a clause which is very, very important, according to point (a) of which it would be an urgent task to monitor the management of public finances, asset management, the activities of state-owned, part-ownership or majority-government-owned entities to preserve and perpetuate assets. This is a very, very important task. And what we see is that the SAO is putting down a report that does not control the vast parts of assets that MNV Zrt., MOL, MVM, MÁV, BKK, the defence or the TIG are managing. So we do not want to say that the SAO has accumulated a series of sinful omissions, but that there are some shortcomings here that we should be able to meet and on which we should have data. And we have a recurring obsession, if you will, and that is that there is a criminal omission by the government, which is an amazing lack of a national inventory, according to which we know nothing about national wealth. Yes, about certain elements of state wealth, but in terms of national wealth, it is completely ignorant of both the government and the Parliament that not only bridges, main roads, small trains - as you have tried to register - but we simply do not know the entire strategic wealth of the country. (11.20) You do not know how much family silver is, and this untenable condition has been maintained here for years. It is simply impossible for you to plan the operation of a national economy without knowing what the subject matter of national wealth is, since our strategic options, our ways of breaking out, would be included. Their aggregation is cancelled year after year. On the SAO's part, we resent the fact that the government assists in this sinful omission, does not draw attention to it, and simply does not express our comments which would suggest that yes, indeed, if you do not know how much family silver is, how you plan to continue to operate and how you are trying to plan, let us say, a budget on a fair basis. We have admitted that the 70 percent increase in the number of checks on the prospectus is an excellent thing. So the expansion of activity, the diversification of certain processes, is welcome. If this is provided with budgetary resources, then we say that something is leading to the path of the future. At the same time, we see that, for example, the audit of the closure of local governments gives the State Audit Office a chill for some reason. This task has been assigned to the Treasury, which, however, is known to be not an audit body. So we are quite simply saying that the legal requirements cannot be fully complied with, and the SAO's report does not reveal whether it is investigating how, to what level, the municipal authorities are carrying out their statutory tasks - it was 21 mandatory tasks. It is not clear what was the subject of the Court's investigations, the central budgetary bodies, I stress, in about one third of them, the number of audit days and the amount of money used for these investigations at other locations, the main findings, how they were carried out. So we are faced with a number of shortcomings that show that the SAO, in addition to taking on a number of so-called tasks in recent years, does have shortcomings in relation to its main task, or at least its accounts do not explicitly reveal these very important data, from which very important conclusions could be drawn. In this way, we are very sorry that, since the general debate, these doubts have not been addressed, not even in a closed word. While it may be seen from the above data that the main audit activity of the Court of Auditors is at least impaired or incomplete, so-called ancillary activities have been amazingly hacked. Macroeconomic analyses, advisory activities on management systems; one of my favourites is to describe the contexts of competitiveness and sustainable growth, so this is the category in which we could squeeze anything into; ethical public financial leadership training, integrity assessment and holistic control approach. One of the most important things is perhaps the care of the Financial Survey, because it is absolutely a useful task. But what we see is that these side activities are much more pronounced compared to the main activity and the previous rates, and we see that the shortcomings of the main control activity are either not being eliminated, or that data is being hidden from us that would enable them to draw very important conclusions, and that, in the light of which, with great confidence, we could vote on the report whose dark spots are still in the dark and, unfortunately, we cannot be helped to eliminate them. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2015-07-03-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The case of a half-full glass is the State Court's report and the evaluation of the work, because there is something, but it is not the right one. Thus, the State Audit Office prepared 233 reports in 2014, as has been said, at least this much, and there are indeed some of them that contain critical findings and even some that have found non-compliance with the law in a significant part of the public bodies. So, if we consider it, the State Audit Office, as the professional organisation of the Parliament, the Court of Auditors, is doing its work and making proposals. We can continue to say from the MSZP about the style and concept of the report that it is not appropriate. It would not be necessary to have such an event calendar, but rather to sum up the content conclusions - and it would be worth publishing a proposal in a report - which is the resume of annual operation. I must say that, in addition to the report, the President of the State Audit Office has made speeches in Parliament which already indicate this. At the same time, it must be seen that this was done, if you like, in its final desperation, because in the laws establishing the 2016 budget, there are passes which, rather than improving the possibility of controlling it, are just weakening it. Literally, László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who considered himself independent, said here among the walls of the House, that the law establishing the budget for 2016 repeals the clauses containing part of the control powers, which would further weaken the effectiveness of the control activities of the governing bodies, whether the municipality or the Ministry; instead of introducing stricter, more detailed provisions in the public finances, and thus impose an obligation on the governing bodies to carry out a planned and regular audit, it weakens it. This could lead to further imbalances in individual budgetary bodies and institutions, thereby ultimately weakening the legal operational control of public finances as a whole. During their audits - also the words of the President - there is a regular exlex situation that the organisational and operational rules of the budgetary bodies and institutions have followed the legislation in force in the rarest cases - a very serious sentence - often because of the failure of the governing body, sometimes because of the failure of the heads of institutions. Therefore, this legislation, which eliminates the impossible state, with deadlines, should be laid down for the managing body to monitor and approve the sms, especially if we know that the sms are, in fact, the regulation of responsibilities within the organisation. If you like, in addition to the report, this is a call for help from the President of the State Audit Office, to which the majority should join, the Fidesz majority in Parliament should respond, you should note the risky course they have taken. Among the professional comments, I would like to highlight the question of controlling the exercise of ownership rights over state property from the 2014 report. According to the report, the exercise of ownership rights activities is still not fully supported by the established and operated control system. It is worth mentioning that in the last month alone, the House has discussed at least five legislative proposals relating to the management of state assets and the exercise of ownership rights, with only a few days between the submissions. They do not know how to set up a control system even in the government, and there is no way to increase efficiency with ad hoc amendments. You don't seem to be able to improve the conditions of work. On the basis of the report, it is clear that the professional proposals of the State Court of Auditors are not required to be taken into account by the government or by government representatives, but let's face it, this would not hurt, it would be very desirable. [[11.30]] Because if the State Audit Office had been able to carry out a follow-up check in 2014 at the Ministry of National Economy, there would have been serious accusations in the field of debt rules. So when the State Audit Office finds in its report that the debt formula is virtually useless and draws attention to this already in 2013, it is incomprehensible that this correction will only take place in the process of adopting the budget. According to the analysis signed by President Domokos, the Hungarian sovereign debt rules are professionally flawed. This was already described in 2013 and also that the sovereign debt formula is practically useless, since it is unable to be used for the intended purpose, in as many economic situations as possible - i.e. the formula - so it is not suitable to enforce countercyclical economic policy, which is considered by economics to be almost undisputed, and to support the recovery targets, which are sometimes expressed positively by the government or the National Bank, from the legal side. So these contradictions are the reasons why the MSZP faction does not consider this report to be a good one, while, for example, we consider the possibility of a follow-up as a positive step, and we very much hope that, at the latest time, the critical wordings of the President of the State Audit Office will eventually be reflected in legislation in the area of government operation. We wish you good luck with that. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-07-03-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-07-03-59	Mr President, Dear House, We are not able to generate an intense debate, as I see it, but we should note that the best thing about the Court's activities is perhaps to talk about specific indicators, performance indicators and performance measurement. In the Anglo-Saxon area, a little more western, it is absolutely customary to mention one single example: the professional activity, which is already provided by external clients to different Court or Court institutions, is used as an important means of measuring performance. I am not saying that this should be the way to go in Hungary, but there is indeed a country where the Court of Auditors can show the order capacity that is comparable to Big Four on an annual basis, and it certainly measures its own activity on the basis of how much confidence is invested by efficient operators. In Hungary, we are talking about how regular the spending of HUF 8-9 billion is done by the organization. So perhaps it is this much that we are talking about two different dimensions. But what is sorely lacking is that we get aggregated data on the number of inspectors, but we do not know very important questions. Not only do we know what skills they have, because it can still be decided within the internal competence of an organisation, but we do not even know how much an accounting day costs, we do not know what the proportion of managers and inspectors compared to international proportions is, how much, where, how many people travel, how many reports they make to the court stage, this would be a very, very important measure, and how many final judgments have been made. We don't get any data on these, we don't get any enlightening information at all, and we don't get the most important question about whether performance tests have been carried out at all, and if so, what type of tests they were. So it can be seen that an Court of Auditors not only has international standards, because I do not want to refer to international examples, but there are simply conditions that are essential for the measurement of performance, without which it cannot be established whether this organisation has performed its own activities and partly its statutory activities with sufficient efficiency. Therefore, for the last time, we call on you to clarify these misunderstandings, if they are; if they are shortcomings, then they should be revealed and taken the necessary steps, because, in the absence of them, the mass of paper submitted to us is unacceptable. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2015-07-03-61	Thank you, Mr. President. However, I would like to confirm a statement in the report that a number of irregularities and errors have been identified by the State Audit Office within the public sector. Several reports pointed out that the principle of responsible management of public funds was violated. In any case, it is also the responsibility of the government, since in many of the bodies examined, the government should enforce the requirement of proper management. It is clear from the report that this has not been done so far, so I suggest that action be taken immediately to enforce regular farming. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-07-03-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the time frame available. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to sum up the substance of the report and the tasks of the Court of Auditors and its activities on which it is presented. The mission of the State Court of Auditors is to promote transparency, transparency and transparency of public finances through sound, professional-based, value-creating audits. [[Dr. István Józsa: Orientation.]] - and contribute to good governance. Over the past four years, the Court has undergone a comprehensive renewal process which has transformed almost all activities, areas and processes. Thanks to the results of recent years, the Court of Auditors is today a strong, independent institution to safeguard the transparency, accountability and development of public finances. Last year, in order to talk about the facts, 233 Court reports were published, and the Court of Auditors was able to launch a wider set-up of public finances. On the basis of the findings contained in the SAO's reports, in 2014 574 recipients were presented with a total of 2642 proposals based on findings and are therefore carrying out their activities. In practice, the SAO, under its statutory authority, will also further enforce the approach of use reflected in the legislation. The number of reports in the area of minority self-governments 105, 40 in the municipal internal control, 18 in the municipal companies, 20 in the individual topics, 19 in the municipal assets, 9 in the case of higher education institutions, 9 in the case of parties, party foundations 6 reports, water utility companies 3.The SAO pays particular attention to its activities to support compliance with the public debt rules laid down in the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. Accordingly, it started to identify areas through analytical work that could facilitate the fulfilment of constitutional obligations in relation to the sovereign debt indicator by controlling them. So this is what your work is primarily about, not the criticism raised by Congressman Józsa. It has made the assessment of the control of cost calculation one of the focus areas for the control of state and municipal majority-owned entities. By doing so, the SAO can contribute to the basis for the reduction of the rent and, on the other hand, promote the reliability and transparency of the pre- and post-calculation determining the prices of public services. During the audits related to the Court's reports published in 2014, the SAO reached 966 organisations, compared to 569 in 2013, which, as my colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned, increased the number of audited organisations by 70 percent. The increase is linked, inter alia, to the increase in the number of municipal inspections, as the SAO reached 408 municipalities last year compared to 249 municipalities in 2013. This increase is mainly linked to the control of national authorities - thank you very much, Mr Spokesman, for the positive manifestations of the SAO's activities - but in 2014 the SAO controlled much more companies with a number of 21 majority-owned municipal companies. By type of institution, the number of organisations reached 309, 300 of the central government bodies, 152 of the companies and 66 of the associations. [[11.40]] More than 60 percent of those audited were central budgetary bodies and local authorities. Most central budgetary bodies were affected by the closure audit, i.e. 226, accounting for more than 70% of the type of audited. Several Court reports and documents were discussed by the parliamentary committees, the SAO also supported the Parliament's work with information materials. It has also contributed through the advisory activity to the legislative process in the broad sense, as it has supported the legislator through the opinion of a number of draft legislative proposals. The audit of the implementation of the central budget of the previous year is the most important task of the State Audit Office, the credibility of which is one of the keys to the operation of the rule of law. During the closing proceedings, the executive authority reported to the legislative authority whether it had collected the revenues required by the Central Budget Act, and whether the public money thus received was properly spent for the purposes determined by the Parliament. A deeper and broader overview of the management processes of legal predecessors, the adequacy of the controls applied, and their weaknesses was provided to the Court's system renewed in 2012. The SAO has verified the operation of the previous and renewed public procurement system. The purpose of the audit was to determine whether the amendments to the Public Procurement Act and the new Public Procurement Act contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the legislation in 2008-2012, and whether all of this was facilitated by the proper functioning of the central institution system. The SAO checks the exercise of ownership rights over state assets annually in accordance with the legal requirements. For 2013, it monitored the development of a control environment for the exercise of ownership rights, the regularity of the measures in relation to the transfer and take-over of assets required by law by organisations, the establishment and operation of the internal control system in the management of state-owned real estate. The Court continued to carry out the thematic group audits on municipalities in 2014 and published 196 Court reports, of which 18 municipal companies. It is the statutory obligation of the State Audit Office to monitor the management of parties and party foundations receiving budgetary support every two years. The SAO supports the Parliament in the renewal of the legal environment by presenting the shortcomings identified in its reports during the statutory control of the management of parties and party foundations. The advisory and analytical work includes an opinion on the draft law on the central budget, support for the task of the Fiscal Council, fight against fraud and corruption. In addition, the Court contributes to the promotion of the development of public finances through advisory activities. Based on these considerations, the Economic Committee has made its motion for a decision in Parliament, and I would ask my fellow Members to accept the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Monday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. general discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/5349. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Lászlóné Németh, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2015-07-03-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to create an independent data collection and data processing institutional model, which will contribute to the discharge of clearing tasks within the natural gas distribution system, which will address a market problem that has existed for years. It is well known that in Hungary the gas consumption of retail customers and most small and medium-sized enterprises is not measured on a daily basis, an estimated use is established for users based on a statistical model. Traders serving customers therefore determine the quantity of gas that they intend to purchase and/or be obliged to purchase and can be re-valued on the basis of this. There is a serious problem with this process that has not been resolved so far. So, as I said, so far, it is the practice that distribution companies carry out the accounting between estimated and actual consumption, this is the so-called correctional account and, obviously, the financial accounts related to it and resulting from it. However, they do so in such a way that this accounting cannot be verified by traders or is not implemented at all. This settlement will not be implemented, nor will the correction account, even though they would be obliged to do so under the Gas Act. Here, I would like to remind you that the decision to replace the utility and free market operation in the past was part of the second energy package, with the need for a competitive market model, the obligation for distributors to solve the problem, the clearing problem. The correction procedure was provided for by the Hungarian Gas Industry Association, which was the legal predecessor of MET. However, no substantive progress has been made, so in 2012 the Energy Authority took a decision requiring the System Manager to draw up and establish a corrective working committee together with the Regulatory Committee, establishing this certain corrective procedure. The working committee was set up, they started their work, but they could not achieve any meaningful results, and they failed to come up with a solution. So all of this means that, what I have said, that in practice, correction accounts for the efficient and predictable functioning of the natural gas market, despite the fact that since 1 July 2009 the law required them to do so, have not been applied, i.e. we are six years behind schedule in this respect. Since technical and traffic information on the basis of the accounts between market participants is in the possession of the distribution companies, traders do not, today and that is still true, have the opportunity to learn, know in time and manage their daily lives in a manner that is essential to their business. It also means that the lack of these accounts for companies serving customers involves not only financial uncertainty but also planning uncertainty, not even little. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Dezső Believing in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, With the proposed amendment of the Gas Act, it is now possible to change this, and now, after a very long period of patience, to put things in order in this respect and to establish clean relations in this area of the natural gas market. The proposal before you sets up an independent central body under the professional supervision of the Energy Office, which requires precise technical, traffic data from distribution companies, thereby enabling accounting processes to take place in a uniform, uninterested and transparent manner. Taking this task from the distribution company, this organisation would monitor the distribution of natural gas in a predictable, legally regulated manner. [[11.50]] I think it is safe to say that this new model has various benefits for the functioning of the gas market. So you can not only resolve the relationship between traders and distributors here, but also in terms of the functioning of the whole market, there are certain beneficial effects. It will be cost-effective, not one by one for the various distribution companies to adapt their own systems to the IT systems needed for the correction accounts, but for this central system to do so instead. With this central system, we can help support the control and operational efficiency of the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, and provide full information on the regulation of gas prices and fees. I would also like to emphasise once again that, thanks to this system, cross-subsidisation and settlement imbalances still exist in the natural gas market. So, in view of this and in light of that, I would like to ask you to support a detailed debate on the amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-07-03-66	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-07-03-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The 2008 XL on gas supply. T/5349. We are talking about bill number 1. As stated in the national energy strategy, the presence of energy that is safely accessible and affordable to ensure social well-being is essential to improve the performance of the economy. One of the biggest challenges for our country's future is to answer energy-related questions and create domestic energy security. Natural gas imports are significant in the structure of Hungarian natural gas sources. Imported natural gas sources are predominantly of Russian origin, and most of the gas coming from the gas pipeline from Baumgarten in Austria comes to Hungary in a similar way. Domestic production covers approximately 20 percent of annual consumption, so the import rate is high, around 80 percent. Hungary's total natural gas consumption in 2013 amounted to 9 billion 443 million cubic metres, of which the population's gas consumption amounted to 3 billion 113 million cubic metres of natural gas. In Hungarian energy cake, the high share of natural gas consumption is typical, and hydrocarbons represent almost 40% of this energy cake. This is why it is of the utmost importance that the domestic natural gas system is able to operate in a transparent and, above all, efficient way. Creating a single and transparent gas market is essential for the competitiveness of domestic companies. Therefore, the present proposal aims to establish a system for collecting data, data processing and contributing to the performance of clearing tasks in the distribution system, which makes the distribution system transparent and verifiable. Unlike the current structure, where the technical and traffic data of the natural gas distribution system are only in the possession of natural gas distributors, the proposed amendment will allow for the establishment and operation in the future of uniform data management related to the natural gas distribution system. This will also contribute to improving the clearing mechanism of the distribution system and to the flexible operation of the free trade change. Furthermore, the gas distribution system accounting used in the current regulatory model does not provide sufficient guarantees to ensure a non-discriminatory, transparent market operation. In the last nearly six years, despite official action, operators have not been able to agree on the conditions for correction. It is therefore necessary to establish a system to ensure the collection of information necessary for quick, correct and efficient financial accounts and to allow for cross-accounting and cross-financing to be carried out along fair clearing data. Thus, system users have to price a lower risk, thus further reducing the domestic energy price. This will be a price advantage in particular for the consumer segment concerned. The proposal allows for a transparent and competitive gas market, which provides a significant advantage not only for operators but also ultimately for consumers. I therefore ask that you support this proposal with your vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-07-03-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-07-03-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The bill was created by the government in February 2015, with a core capital of HUF 100 million and a capital reserve of HUF 2.9 billion, MFB Zrt. Owned by Central Data Collection and Processing Ltd. - its shortened name is the KAF - which includes rules on its activities in the Gas Supply Act. The primary objective of the bill is to establish, as we have heard now, a system of data collection and data processing and distribution system clearing tasks that would make the distribution system system transparent and verifiable. According to the bill, it names the operation of the central data collection and processing system as a new activity subject to authorisation and introduces a new system usage fee, called a settlement fee, for carrying out the activity. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] According to the justification of the bill, the aim is to allocate the quantity on which the gas distribution system accounts are based, to establish an independent, market-free central data collection and processing system operator in a legal manner. In our view, while the problem raised by the Secretary of State is real and needs to be addressed, the real purpose of this proposal is, beyond and beyond the reasons set out in the law and in the explanatory memorandum, to establish, under the direction of the Government and the Minister of Prime Minister János Lázár, a database from which practically all natural and legal persons will have up-to-date data on the use of natural gas. System operators, transmission system operators, distributors, storage facilities will be obliged to connect their own databases and records electronically with the State KAF, the data management centre and even the trading venue will require notification to this data management centre. In our view, we are just one step away from this, where the state will also have a fairly precise figure on what time the child will be bathed in, since if the water is heated with gas, this consumption should also appear in this database. With regard to the order of settlement between distributors and traders, which has not been settled in a real problem and negotiated way, as I have already mentioned, the cost of the solution under the bill, which is public money in this respect, as the state has so far invested nearly HUF 3 billion in this company, so these costs are not proportionate to the profit they want to achieve, since this is a public money of HUF 3 billion. In addition, it shall enter into force on 1 January 2017 at 100/A. Therefore, it is not understandable what the real purpose of this legislation is, unless it is intended to have access to data that this data controller or the Hungarian government has not yet had access to. In addition, we believe that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office could be suitable for resolving disputes concerning distribution accounts, so we would not have had to set up a new organisation for this. [[12.00]] Therefore, it is not understandable what the real purpose of this legislation is, unless it is intended to have access to data that this controller or the Hungarian government has not yet had access to. In addition, we believe that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office could be suitable for resolving disputes concerning distribution accounts, so we would not have had to set up a new organisation for this. (12.00) The KAF does not yet perform system operation and system management tasks, but will have virtually all the necessary data. This could also be a next step, a next goal to be a system operator and a system management body for this company. In our view, this could be contrary to EU rules. The bill is about the main tasks of the KAF, i.e. it will have other tasks, but they are not known, so it is also problematic from a legislative point of view, since all its tasks should be defined by law, but in this case we do not see this in the legislation. The planned rate of the settlement fee - mentioned in the legislation itself - is not known, but we do not know the rate, but this figure of HUF 3 billion is the only one that started this company - the content of the distribution tasks to be carried over by the KAF, what the KAF does instead of distributors, will be, for example, a system operator's task, as I have already mentioned. Overall, we believe that the proposal could cost gas supply unnecessarily if this award is introduced. It helps the state sneak into all households through gas pipelines, and its spirit is contrary to the objectives of the Union's single energy market, as all market data is concentrated in a group of companies that are otherwise interested in the competition market and universal service gas trading, since the Hungarian Development Bank is the owner of the company, which is also the owner of other public energy companies. So, going back to the real goal, as well as the one you set out and described in the justification of the law, to create an independent organisation, this is not happening, because the owner of the Hungarian Development Bank is the Hungarian Development Bank, which is even in the energy supply and in the competitive market, so this independence is questionable. Therefore, for these reasons, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the adoption of this bill. It should, of course, be mentioned at the end that I very much hope that once again it is not about bringing in a law, a law, the Hungarian Parliament will adopt it, and that others will be able to profit from it again, as has been the case in recent years in the MET gas theft case, where due to a ministerial decree and its continued extension, they have been given the opportunity to bring in cheap gas from Austria, my fellow Member has also mentioned that this was possible, and unfortunately this has not been achieved by Hungarian consumers, but by offshore riders and government-close economic backup people have made nearly 150 billion out of this transaction. I trust that this legislation does not prepare a story like this. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-03-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2015-07-03-71	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/5349. Law No 1023/2015 on the measures necessary to establish a Central Data Collection and Processing Company. Government decision, which stipulated that the central data processing company should be established as an exclusive state-owned company on behalf of the State, over which the Hungarian Development Bank exercises the ownership rights of the State by providing professional supervision of the company by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. For the purposes of this In accordance with the Government's decision, the NFM decree designated the Hungarian Development Bank Private Limited Company over the KAF Central Data Collection and Processing Private Limited Company until 30 December 2020. The bill contains the necessary legislative provisions for the operation of the central data collection and processing system. Unlike the current structure, where the technical and traffic data of the natural gas distribution system are only in the possession of natural gas distributors, the bill proposes the establishment and operation of a single data management system related to the natural gas distribution system. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the bill, the holder of the central data collection and processing system would be able to carry out a full-scale gas distribution system accounting by having a new independent central operator in the future, free of market interests, to carry out the statutory part of the tasks related to the calculation of consumption estimates and the measured consumption of non-measurable consumers. This new clearing procedure contributes to improving the clearing mechanism of the distribution system, to the flexible operation of the trading process, thereby increasing competition in the market for non-remote gas consumers. In addition to the above, the bill provides the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office with further effective control through the supervision of the activities of the new licensee, the holder operating the central data collection and processing system. The holder operating the central data collection and processing system shall carry out the distribution of gas to places of use, and subsequently, on the basis of consumer meter readings, shall detect the differences between the distribution of natural gas and actual consumption, and shall carry out the correction calculations. This allocation activity is not the same as the allocation pursuant to point 15 of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 312/2014 of 26 March 2014 establishing a network balancing code for gas transmission system operators. Ladies and Gentlemen, The introduction of the model proposed by the bill provides both the information needed for rapid and efficient financial accounts and allows the accounting of estimation-based data and, thirdly, the elimination of cross-subsidisation, which means that network users have to price less risk than they already have in general, and this clearly results in a price reduction effect in the relevant consumer segment. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2008 XL on the distribution of natural gas before you. T/5349. The aim of the 2012 National Energy Strategy is to establish a single, non-discriminatory, transparent and verifiable gas distribution system clearance, thus contributing to the long-term implementation of the objectives set out in the 2030 National Energy Strategy, such as sustainability and transparency. A further objective of the bill is to create an end-user, technical and traffic database that supports more effective public control, which helps to underpin government energy policy decisions. In this context, central data collection and processing companies will have an important role to play in maintaining the long-term results of the government's previously implemented cuts and in promoting efforts to develop greater public engagement. [[12.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Please note that T/5349 helps to improve the operation, transparency and efficiency of the co-operating natural gas system and the availability of the most favourable end-user prices. Please support bill number 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-03-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2008 XL on gas supply. There is an amendment to the law before us, as many of the previous speakers have already said. The purpose of this bill is the Central Data Collection and Processing Ltd., established by the Government. integration of its activities into the day-to-day operation of the natural gas market. At this company, which was set up on 28 February with HUF 2.9 billion in capital reserves and HUF 100 million in basic capital, the government decided at its meeting on 21 January to establish this organization - the Hungarian Development Bank of the Prime Minister's Office will exercise ownership, which is very important for the future, and its professional supervision will be carried out by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. This Central Data Collector and Processor is planned to start its activities on the natural gas market, and it is clear that this requires a change in the sectoral rule. What does the law or government decision say that creates this data-processing body? It says that it will make the uncoordinated, less transparent measurement and clearing activities of sectoral operators more transparent, simpler and uniform, and it is planned to provide reliable technical and consumer information on the current functioning of the public utilities sector to all market participants through a daily, accurate exchange of data. These sound very good in themselves, and a data collection, if it is really intended to make the system work more efficiently, is not necessarily wrong, so I would argue with my Socialist fellow Member on this. However, due to the operation of government or governments so far, we must always look for some kind of back-up if such a far-reaching proposal is made or if such an organization is created by you by decision of the government. Why? Information, data, is today a huge value, a market value that can, of course, be used for positive and less positive purposes, and it is always formulated in the Member, especially if he is a opposition Member, how you will be able to abuse it and how you might be able to use it for the benefit of the background companies behind the government in the energy sector. It is clear that information on the natural gas market which provides daily data on consumer habits in the natural gas distribution and consumption system is worth gold and the quantities that are distributed and used during each period. These services, these data collections, are currently carried out by system operators. This is not necessarily good, it really does not allow for a uniform assessment. According to the government, this is an important step towards a pure competitive position in the market; once again, I say that it could indeed be, could create a clear competitive position in the market if the government's activities were not accompanied by groups of companies such as the natural gas of MET Holding or other energy suppliers, which are constantly emerging from time to time in relation to the government's activities, and had already been sceptical of the opposition parliamentary representative when he saw such an activity, that you would set up such a data gathering organisation. The question, yes, is whether the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office would or would not be competent to carry out this task, it should be professionally judged whether an independent body had to be created for this purpose, and whether this body is sufficiently independent, as it is described here. Creating transparent and reproduced accounts for the conduct of the corrective settlement procedure would indeed be a welcome goal. And for an independent, market-free central data collector to do so: of course, everyone wants these to be done in a transparent, transparent and independent way. But in Hungary, this practice is not so typical that these systems actually work that way. Now, a little on the gas market: here the Fidesz lead speaker also mentioned the supply side. Hungary is now largely dependent on Russian gas, we import about 20 percent of our own production, the other 80 percent, and the vast majority of it from Russia. In recent times, we have discussed in Parliament what problems are threatening us with our gas supply. First, Russia withdrew from the implementation of the South Stream gas pipeline, then or at the same time announced that after 2018, it would not be able to transfer gas to Europe via Ukraine, so it pushed the European Union's responsibility to build or develop alternative gas pipelines; what it had done, the announcement - so far nothing tangible - that it would take Russian gas to the Turkish-Greece border. This is very important for Hungary's natural gas supply because we are seeing trends - and in this context, I am confirmed by Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó in this week's interpellation - that there is a northern and southern gas corridor that will deliver Russian and Asian gas to Europe, and that all of Hungary will be created as it stands, and Hungary's gas supply will become uncertain, and the North-South corridor will not be fully realised. Although the Hungarian-Slovakian pipeline is now, thank God, finally delivered after a long stretch, this may improve Hungary's security of supply a little bit, but we are still far from the saving goal, so that Hungary can say its natural gas supply is stable. While the capacity of the North Stream pipeline is being doubled - that is what the Western European energy companies and Gazprom have signed in St. Petersburg - and the gas pipeline that will take the gas to Europe through Italy will be created from the south, the situation is that if the Russians really stop transiting Ukraine, we will only be able to buy Russian gas from Western Europe. This is obvious that it can affect supply, distribution and consumption, as it can cause uncertainty on the domestic market, because we have been dependent on Russian gas, but this dependence was an almost unilateral Oriental dependence, which now looks like we are switching to a western direction while the source of the gas remains the same. I say this - although it does not belong closely to the subject of this bill - because it is true that there is gas in the Hungarian gas pipeline system and from what source there is gas, it also makes a significant contribution to how this whole system will work, and how the central data processor itself will be able to carry out its activities. If you could really create a system that would lead to more effective coordination of distribution network usage - because it would indeed take over the process of data collection and data processing from individual operators and create a single system - we could welcome that. What makes us skeptical - I'll say it again, and then I'll finish it, I don't want to talk about it for long - is that in the past you have this confidence, when a seemingly good professional proposal came to the table, you have abused many times, and then it turns out that there is some ulterior motive, there is some kind of ugliness in the background, and that is confirmed, even though Jobbik is really looking out for the interests of natural gas consumers, whether they are residential or industrial users, and it is in their interest to obtain gas at a stable, sustainable and cheap price in all circumstances. [[12.20]] If the government contributes to this goal, we will support it in all circumstances in the future, as we have already supported. However, I would like you to try to reassure me in your closing statement that the data processed in this system will not be used in such a way as to support our suspicion that government-wide energy companies or businesses would have access to this information more effectively and easily than other businesses. It should also be said briefly that the nationalisation of the energy sector as a strategic sector has also been supported by public ownership in Parliament in recent years - although this has also been accompanied by question marks, whether in relation to the price of the buy-back or other circumstances - and the creation of the First National Public Service Provider, because we believe that it is a positive process that the government believes that these businesses are in the right place in the hands of the state and that these systems, which have been combated, emortaged and destroyed by multi-company companies, are being taken back into public hands. The question is whether there will be a source for the maintenance and renovation of these, whether the reduction of the overhead will not be at the expense of system maintenance and system operation. Because it must also be said that although we have supported the reduction of the rent, it has not been implemented in such a thoughtful and logical way that, in the long term, this whole price reduction is sustainable, all the more so, because the European Union, as far as we know, is fighting it quite hard, and it is about to break down the rent reduction and the Hungarian legislation that supports it, and in this connection, infringement procedures have also started and may even start in the near future. If we cannot maintain this kind of reduction in the EU's debt, then what will the government be able to do in the future is a question. This could have quite extreme consequences. Overall, as has been said so many times that we have a positive initiative in one word, even a Eligible initiative, the details of which, because the devil is among the lines, are not yet known. Whether we can support the proposal in the final vote scheduled for next Monday will depend, inter alia, on the extent to which you can provide reassuring answers to these questions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-07-03-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Once again, we are discussing an amendment to the law that could have been formulated for a meaningful purpose and usefully, but failed. The most important novelty of the bill is the introduction of a central data collection and processing system in the supply of gas, which will be operated by a state-owned operator. In itself, it could be agreed if they used it for what it is. A new element will also be the natural gas settlement fee, which will be paid by the service providers to the system operator, i.e. a new public burden will be added to the already overtaxed residential energy service by the Robin Hood tax, the fixed utility tax and the energy service provider's special tax. This will not lead to good results, as almost all operators are already loss-making, and at this level of price and taxation, public utility will also be loss-making. According to the law, network users and operators will be obliged to provide data, to build the necessary infrastructure, and to preserve business secrets while providing their own data to a central system. According to the LMP, the secret should also be kept by the person we trust with our data. It would be nice to see if the government feels the same way. The only stated purpose of the whole amendment is for the State to have accurate and up-to-date information on gas consumption and its accounting, which is an unspoken prerequisite for the creation of a public utility, the redirection of consumers and the settlement of accounts between the necessary companies. At the same time, the same infrastructure could be suitable for smart measurement and smart grids, which the government has not even attempted, even though it has been an EU obligation for years. Smart measurement is a success story all over Europe. There are EU countries where millions of households use them, but wherever they experiment with them, they are also popular and effective everywhere. Smart meters are capable of directing energy and water consumption to the lower utilisation and, of course, to the lower priced valley period. The washing machine turns on at night, the sprinkler system waters the garden at night, the gas boiler warms the water outside the peak time. This is not only beneficial for the general public, since significant and lasting savings can be achieved through the restructuring of consumption, but it is also beneficial for producers and network operators, as production is balanced and consumption becomes more predictable. In addition, smart meters can include a lot of smart services from remote reading to prepaid and thus cheaper consumption, to remote control. The meters that provide much information in themselves make consumption more conscious and encourage savings. In Hungary, large utility companies started preparing an 8 000 household smart meter pilot project in 2011, in which they planned to reform the measurement of electricity, water, gas and heat consumption. The actual investigation was reported to have taken place in 2013-14, at the time when the government was engaged in a campaign to reduce its costs. According to preliminary surveys carried out in 2011, the majority of stakeholders expected savings of HUF 1000-1500 per month in order to change the timing of consumption and 56 percent, i.e. the majority of respondents, showed willingness to modify their consumer habits, especially among the representatives of large consumers, younger and more educated. However, the 2014 evaluation concluded with the result that there was no meaningful difference in the consumption of smart metered households and the conventional metered control group, and that the use did not shift towards the valley periods. This unique development across Europe is explained by the fact that the experiment coincides with the peak period of the reduction campaign, when consumers have achieved this savings without any change in behaviour. In addition, the pre-planned information actions presenting the benefits of smart measurement and conscious consumption, which would have run in parallel with the experiment, largely did not start, because the government wanted to send people messages that they thought were more politically useful. The study, which summarized the results of the smart measurement experiment, should have been published at the end of 2014, but the publication was cancelled, the material disappeared between the market research company coordinating the investigation and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, and has not been found since. The government seems to be afraid of any possibility that would increase the public's energy awareness and help to save energy. We believe that only those interested in the fact that Hungarian people consume as much as possible from imported energy sources that are only limited. We hope that the government does not have any interests that would prevent it from taking meaningful steps towards energy independence. Therefore, the LMP will submit an amendment to the draft law, which would guarantee that the introduction of central data collection will also serve the preparation of smart measurement. If the majority of governments vote in favour of this amendment, we will re-evaluate what we think about the bill, but if our amendments are voted out, we cannot support the draft. The LMP does not want to assist in increasing the unnecessary burden on energy providers or further delaying the implementation of smart measurement. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-07-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is now room for further speeches by Members. I give the floor from the KDNP Group to Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.30]]
u2015-07-03-77	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is necessary to emphasise, as our opposition colleagues have said, that Christian democrats consider it important to maintain the reduction of the rent, which is, inter alia, covered by T/5349. Legislative proposal No. 1 will also facilitate the implementation of this Regulation. We consider it important to adopt the bill because it will help people who live on wages and salaries. I would also ask once again the honourable opposition representatives to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-07-03-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-07-03-79	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Much has been said here in recent minutes, in connection with this amendment, which we have just tabled. There are only a few things that I would like to reflect on, because it would obviously be impossible in its entirety. What is very important is that this is the last time we have said that it is another burden. Well, I would like to point out that it does not impose any additional burden, no additional costs, no increase in the fee that will then and in the future, if the activities of the central data processor are adopted and can be launched. Therefore, the activity must be paid; today, distribution licensees, while not carrying out the actual clearing activity, can therefore receive a certain item in the charged or eligible fee for themselves. That's not gonna happen for the distribution licenses. So in the future, this will be what will cover the operation of the KAF. It was absolutely necessary for me to tell you this. With regard to the EU dimension of our vision, we have taken into account not only the proposals that live today, but all the proposals that relate to the third EU package. We have taken into account that from October of this year, the introduction of the The activity and model that we have developed have been carried out precisely in accordance with these knowledge, in practice, on the basis of the EU directive which leaves the possibility of Member States and says that each Member State can decide which activity to carry out itself. Only a distinction should be made between certain activities so that a company, a designated licensee, is not able to carry out certain activities together. The separation is not about the Union being able to determine who the entity is to carry out that activity. That is why it is important, and that is why we stressed in our material that this is all that the central data processor will deal with. Because that's what we can do to ensure that his activities are not incompatible. What has appeared in the speeches as to what we will use the data gathered at the central data processor is obviously all I can say now is that we will use it in accordance with the legislation. I ask you to take into account that this type of unevenness here would indeed be a problem for us, for universal service providers, through the utility service provider. So if I assume that every player in the natural gas market is doing a fair job, it will put into the system so much gas, so much molecules that are really necessary, for example, to supply its own customers, it might be less necessary to have such a system, because at the end of it it would be just a question of financial accounting. But in recent years, there has been a natural gas dealer whose activity, let's just say, ended in a nasty way, well, there has been, for example, a specific and definite case of not putting gas into the system at all for a few days. Obviously he didn't have one, but it came out afterwards, and it only came out at the distributor. Here I just wanted to show you a new approach, a segment of what I think we need to watch and watch. It is also quite obvious that market players do not have an interest in it, and here we should primarily think about distribution licensees, even if I say that they should create the possibility of accurate accounting on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. With this database, this is what we want to support. Obviously, this will not only provide us, not only universal service providers belonging to the public utility service provider, but also free-market traders, with a view to their future activities. So once again, I would like to ask you to support this motion. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-03-80	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that amendments may be submitted by 31 August in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rules. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. There will now be speeches after the agenda. Member of the Jobbik Group, Mr.Előd Novák, applied for a post-meeting speech: the second most read Hungarian writer, István Fekete, died 45 years ago, whose spine could not be broken by the communists, but with the title of the trash out and the kidney being crushed. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-81	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A man lives as long as he's remembered. Mr. Parliament! It was written by István Fekete, whose anniversary was undeservingly silent. On the Facebook page of Jobbik youth, and then on my own Facebook page, I also remembered it, and it aroused great interest, but it still pains me that the excellent writer, born in 1900 and deceased in 1970, was essentially not seen in mainstream media, for example, and on the part of state actors. After Mór Jókai, the ten millionth volume was sold to the most popular Hungarian writer, István Fekete in 2013. In his books, he grew up generations. Several of our renowned writers and poets did not have a straight spine under the burden of the party state, but there were exceptional forms of character; so was István Fekete. After a sharp criticism of the proletariat and Bolshevism, he was first placed on the index and then severely abused. He had to live his life on disability after losing one of his eyes and half his kidneys after he was interrogated on Andrássy Road in 60. He was raised hard as usual when he was a kid. In 1914 he barely became a high school student when he volunteered for World War I. In 1923 he was admitted to the Economic Academy in Debrecen, but only completed the first semester, because he was not feeling well in the Great Plain as a Transdanubian. His stories were later edited by Ferenc Herczeg New Times, and his hunting stories were published by Kálmán Kittenberger, Nimrod. In 1939, at the Hungarian national-spirited novel contest of the Hungarian University Printing House of Királyi, for which 193 writers submitted their work, the novel Zsellers won, which presents the red terror. [[He's showing me the book.]] The popularity of the work is shown by the fact that it was worth seven editions between 1939 and 44, and only after the change of system could it reappear in its unmutilated form in 1994. Let me quote this novel, for there may have been taboo parts of it today. [[12.40]] I quote:. I tell Uncle Tamás that I will be happy to be the same to all Hungarians, but I don't need the Gypsy, and neither do those who speak Hungarian, mixing strange foreign words, but - deep down in my soul I felt clear - not Hungarians. - wrote István Fekete. And he wrote other little anecdotes, little feelings of life from that age. You don't know anything about cereal prices, son? - That's the stock market business, Father. It's controlled there... - I know, son. It's run there... it's bought by Kaufmann, it's sold to Braun, the Braun sells it to the Strasser in Pest, it sells it to the mill. It's run by a lot of people. It's just that we're the ones who've been digging the ground..........the farmer often spoke from the ranks of István Fekete, that's what we've seen in most of his novels. In the spring of 1946, it was banned because of its works on proletariat and Bolshevism. That's why the political police assaulted him. His books weren't published, he didn't get a permanent job anywhere, and he had to support his family for a long time from occasional work, such as loading barges. He was also excluded from the Association of Hungarian Writers. All his life, he openly confessed to his belief in God, his worldview, and his morality. The son of István Fekete, with the same name, left the country because of his role in the 1956 Revolution, and he, his son, considered that anti-communism, antiliberalism, anti-cosmopo-lithism, and the national feeling against the former, patriotism, Christianity, became a red poster in the eyes of the party-led leadership, literary leadership, so they tried to reduce his work, silence him, and merely call him a youth novelist. Indeed, he was treated in accordance with his lack of greatness in literary life. His books were published, and among the readers they were popular, but he made a successful film of several novels in vain, so Bogáncs, Tüskevár and Vuk were featured in cartoons, but for political reasons, for example, he was incomplete or not at all in several encyclopedias. And even today, while in Prague, for example, the mascot, key chains, T-shirts and the like depicting the Little Vakond are touching each other, the tourist visiting our country does not even meet with the Vuk. In fact, the Hungarian children do not grow up on this either. And here in Parliament, the 21st. We had to wait until the parties of the century to commemorate István Fekete. First, my fellow Member, Gábor Ferenczi, praised him on 26 October 2010, quoting the excellent writer about 1956. Then, on the 44th anniversary of István Fekete's death last year, Mr Róbert Sallai spoke after the agenda of Mr Benedek LMP. And let me close my speech, like him, with the lines of István Fekete: I looked for the way, I wept the landscape, the stream, the dusty street, the reeds, the forest, everything, but I could not find a way out, and I did not realize that I had found my country. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-82	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech on the message of the Semmelweis Health Demos. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-03-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Mr President's language stumbled when he spoke about democracy, because one of the elements of democracy is the demonstration that was shown to us very well on Wednesday, when, after all, the nurses of the initiative called the Nurse Spring turned to summer and reached it. It was on Wednesday that again, not regretting their own opportunities, their free time, on the occasion of Semmelweis Day, which is a holiday and a public holiday for health care workers, so not regretting their time, not celebrating, but demonstrating the health professionals came to Budapest. I've been demonstrated in two places. These two places, on the one hand, are the József Rádor Square and, on the other hand, here in Kossuth Square, the demonstrators appeared. But why are you here? The Nursers' Spring peaked on 12 May, when they talked about their career demands, wages and representation in the State Secretariat for Health, and they said that the area is definitely waiting for development in these areas, and that the government must intervene in order to develop these areas. Since then, and perhaps this second demonstration wave is justified, there seems to have been no progress on these issues. On Wednesday, therefore, the Hungarian Health Professionals Chamber demonstrated on two locations, starting from Jászai Mari Square, while the medical workers of the Action Alliance demonstrated from József Rádor Square. However, at this time, it was not only demonstrated, but, for example, Jobbik's youth department throughout the country warned passersby about the work that health workers are doing and thanked health professionals in the form of asphalt drawings, but also social workers, all social workers, for the daily work they are doing in the sector. By the way, this action has become an extremely successful action, virtually social media has been flooded with images that - by the way, the creators have not marked themselves - either during the night or early in the morning to the joy of the workers, asphalt drawings have been completed. So it is safe to say that the Internet is full of asphalt drawings that thank workers for their work. All in all, however, the inventory of Wednesday's Semmelweis Day, which must be taken into account by the fact that 60 bus workers have arrived again in Budapest, some 4500 people have demonstrated themselves, supplemented by those from Budapest. Some people here at Kossuth Square today, but after the crowd left, many still chose the possibility of a wake, and a round table conversation, we can call it that, in a moderate round table discussion, they discussed the current health problems until the morning. What is very important, however, is the demands that have been expressed, which were again available in the form of a petition, and which have also been handed over to the State Secretary for Health. In addition to the petition, it is crystal clear what the voice of the workers is, and one of the most important lessons of this day is that it is envisaged that if there is no change by 30 September 2015, i.e. no immediate progress in the catch-up of wages, the sharpening clause of the declarations of resignation that they have set out will be put in place. So they're going to submit their resignations, so their employment will be terminated, and they're finally trying to put some pressure on the government. But we can also see, and it is also very important in the demands that workers are committed to staying home and imagine that their stay at home could best be served by the expected increase in wages, the increase in basic salary, but the wage arrangement could also be used to resolve the broken and perhaps inefficient issue of replacement. They reiterated that the 12-point claim previously granted on 12 May is still in force, so they demand the introduction of an immediate career model, in any event the opening of wage negotiations, the 50 thousand forints increase in basic salary, which, as we have already said, is considered to be one of their very important demands, for which they have now stood up at the demonstration on Wednesday. They also demand the introduction of the cafeteria system, but also the strengthening of the representation of care within the State Secretariat. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government still refuses to take seriously the demands and fates of health workers and workers. It was also said that on the debate day, on the health debate day, there was little or no shame on the part of the government and on the part of the governing parties, and that it was also said that Jobbik's proposal, which would not have cost the country a penny of the budget and which would have restored the weight or role of care in the administration, was swept off the table by the government, and our proposal for a resolution was swept off the table by the government. So it still seems that the government refuses to see the voices of the nurses. So it seems that after the nurse's spring, which is now in nursing summer, we can count on the nurse's autumn. Jobbik is determined and determined to support the demands of health professionals and calls on the government to consider and implement them as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-03-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the fifth extraordinary session of the summer extraordinary session will take place on Monday 6 July 2015. Thank you for all your daily work, thank you for keeping the record, for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. The meeting's closed. Have a nice weekend, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 12:49 p.m.]] László Földi s. k. k. Széchenyi Dezső s. k. megjegyzőSchmuck Erzsébet s. k. megjegyző
