u2015-03-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that József Attila Móring and Dezső Liberty are going to be attending the meeting to help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from approximately 12 a.m. to 13 a.m. for 30 minutes, from approximately 13:30 a.m. to 14:30 a.m. for immediate questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, Today, Mr Mirkóczki, on behalf of Jobbik, applied for a speech before the agenda:. His cover name is Fidesz. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-09-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, A moral and moral crisis has emerged around the Prime Minister, which has not been without precedent. It is well known and does not need to be shown to anyone what anti-communist demands and the actual end of the regime change have been made since Jobbik's establishment, and since 14 May 2010, there has been almost no seven, there has not been a month to make any proposal before you. You have never once supported us, and every single time we have been voted off our Lustration proposal without bone, you do not wish to get rid of the former servers and co-workers of the State Party. You have never once supported our proposal to take away communist luxury pensions, each time without bone, and every time. But the same has been done every time to fully uncover the list of agents, the full disclosure of the list of agents, has not enabled anyone - I repeat, by anyone, not by the people involved, not by the inner circle, but by any Hungarian citizen - to be accessible, you have voted against this every single time. In the history, let's go a little further, in chronological order. Specifically, a few weeks ago, a cardboard 6 came out. I would like to stress that we did not want to deal with this because the person is not a public figure and is now deceased, which we would like to respect, but we cannot avoid on the basis of yesterday's news either. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was an agent of state security under the alias of his late father-in-law, István Lévai, on the basis of case number 6, which, let me put it this way, shows that he did a pretty good job during and before the revolution in 56. This also raises, how shall I put it, the precedents of your actions, why, why and why they do everything the way they do it. Why is it that at communication level you are more anticommunist than the anticommunist, but are never willing to take any meaningful action in action? Now - and now we arrive at yesterday - Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's former roommate, good friend, business partner, trusted man, Lajos Simicska, says nothing less - and if a former confidence man says so, I think it must be taken seriously in the case of a Prime Minister - than that Viktor Orbán simply said yes at that time at the request of the III/IV main group and allegedly no at the request of the later III/III main group. That brings up a lot of things. If we look at the big system-changer elite, he gave us a puffy prime minister, he gave us a D-209 prime minister, he gave us a number of KSZ KB prime ministers, and now we have this question, which we would like to clarify once and for all. Jobbik doesn't ask, and now he's simply demanding - and I don't know a better word - to put an end to that particular change of regime! In addition, the National Security Committee should investigate this matter with the involvement of all stakeholders: is there a national security risk, and who has or may have a role in this matter? That's what I'm asking you to do, and if there's nothing to hide, you won't stop it. Similarly, they will not prevent or even support our proposal for a resolution, which aims to get the Hungarian Government to ask Moscow for all the state security documents that were taken away at the time and do so by making it public. If they contradict and do not support this, this proves once again that something - to put it mildly - is very wrong. In such a foreign policy environment, in a state where there is a Russian-Ukrainian conflict, when you want to send soldiers against ISIS to Kurdistan, when big investments are being put under cover for 30 years, I think it doesn't matter if the Hungarian Prime Minister is in a position to be blackmailed. I ask you very much to allow this matter to be cleared up and even taken the lead. If Prime Minister Viktor Orbán can't give a reassuring, credible answer to every question, then let's say he has to resign. And if you don't give up on yourself, you're gonna have to cancel on us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-09-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-03-09-3	Mr President, Dear House, The speech by my right-wing colleague is overwhelmingly distressing. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: I believe that!]] in the Hungarian Parliament. Bringing the person of a deceased, not a public figure here, forcing his relatives, his descendants into such a situation is unworthy. [[Mr. Novak intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's my first statement. [[János Pócs: Insolence!]] I think it's a nasty thing. Secondly, it is very surprising to me that the Member quotes an interview from yesterday's press. In the case of the person giving the interview, we have never heard anything from you in recent years but that this man is untrue, untrue. Now in an interesting way... [[Noise, interruptions.]] Interestingly, you're saying what he's saying, and what he's not saying, you're assuming. [[Zoltán Lukács: It's not that it's uncredited, it's that it's stealing!]] they're treating it as a fact. But the hardest thing, honourable Member, is that with your speech today, you have proved once again that you are on a platform with Agnes Vadai. [[Moraj from the benches of the opposition.]] Ágnes Vadai has already formulated the same question in 2012. [[Crying from the benches of Jobbik: Noise.]] He said the same question. [[Previous Novak: Was there a question or a statement? The president's ringing the bell.]] and on 5 April 2012, the Prime Minister replied in writing to Ágnes Vadai. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But Vadai only asks!]] To this day, you can find the answer and all the answers to the question... [[Not all of them!]] [[Not all of them!]] All the... (Novák Előd: Not all!) All documents relating to the issue published by the Historical Office can be downloaded on the Prime Minister.hu in a total of 22 pages. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] I quote from this letter, honourable Members. The Prime Minister writes to Agnes Vadai [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Read slowly!]] They tried to recruit me during the first period of my service, but I refused to do so, so the experiment, as shown in the annex, ended unsuccessfully. Later, I was kept under constant surveillance, my wife and my opposition associates. Subjects of the State Party's secret investigations [[György Szilágyi: Were there any recruitments? Talk about that.]] We were all of us. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.10]] At the end of the letter - I have now missed a few paragraphs - the Prime Minister of Hungary writes: "Everyone in Hungary has been able to get to know the documents related to them for a long time." [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] It is therefore everyone's personal responsibility to account for their role and actions. Yeah, I'm in favour of letting everyone know and publish all the data they have on him. In the meantime, however, innocent victims of dictatorship must be protected from becoming victims again. Silences and observations documentation may contain not only political information about the people observed, but also, for example, the moments of their privacy, emotional relationships, diseases, family problems that those affected do not want others to know. They have the right to do so because they are free people, which we must respect. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No one has argued that!]] End of quote. Honourable Congressman, Today, you have demonstrated with your harsh attack on the Prime Minister of Hungary that it is unworthy of the parliamentary assembly. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Answer the question, you! Intercoms from the governing parties and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-03-09-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A speech before the agenda will also be held, Mr Zoltán Lukács, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party:.Buda-Cash: Fidesz has been in every pocket for five years. I give the floor to Congressman Luke.
u2015-03-09-5	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ever since the DRB's fidesz bank scandal broke out, Fidesz has been trying to stop the responsibility and blame it on someone else. They're doing a very, very serious search to find someone among the Fidesz thieves who aren't fidesz, but they still can't do it, even though they're trying very, very hard. This can't be proved, because of course, these thefts occurred at the bank, which was founded a year and a half ago, with Fidesz's puppetry, formed a year and a half ago, and then a hundred billion forints were stolen and destroyed in a year and a half. It would be difficult to prove that the money was stolen from a bank that was founded a year and a half ago, ladies and gentlemen, that would be quite interesting if you could prove it. But let's see how it happened. You have decided in a law to nationalise the otherwise well-functioning savings cooperatives, but you have put a loophole in the same law that if someone becomes a bank until the law comes into force, they will not nationalise it. One savings cooperative was able to do this, and then when the president sent the law back to Parliament, in that one week the DRB papers were taken in interestingly, and they accepted it as virtually non-compliant, because they were soon given 60 days' notice, so they basically replaced all the documents they hadn't had before, so they couldn't have accepted their demands. Then they will be accepted in a week, it will be 60 days, in October they will take control rights away from PSZAF, and they will be merged into the Hungarian National Bank, and then on 9 December the Hungarian National Bank, headed by Mr Matolcsy, will grant permission to these banks, and then in the next year and a half they will steal the money from them, and these banks will be destroyed. You also speak of the fact that the problem was that the brokerage companies could only be checked every five years, which is not true - not only could they be checked every five years, but they had to be checked every five years; no one said that they could be checked at an earlier date. It is also ridiculous to refer to this because this five-year obligation of control was included in the law of the time, which the Fidesz faction voted for, so you voted in favour of this five-year audit, and then the same law in which it is included, this 2007 law was amended by you after 2010 and then amended in 2013, but this five-year period was left in the same way. So you should decide whether you like it or not, because when you had the chance, you didn't change this law. [[Dezső, gullible in the notary seat, is replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]] And then they say there was no checkup. On 17 September 2010, the PPSZF President appointed by your Prime Minister, Mr Szász, signed an audit in which 16 serious irregularities were found at Buda-Cash, and they were also required to report quarterly and carry out a continuous internal audit, and then the news disappears, and we do not know if there was a follow-up check, if anyone in this company called this to account. This again raises your responsibility. They're running around messing up people's names. An entire country laughed at Minister Varga and Antal Rogán, leader of the group, when they confused two János Gyarmati. They stood up for a press conference, and in five minutes it turned out that János Gyarmati was not that János Gyarmati. Yesterday, your Fidesz television said that Antali Károly told us that there were irregularities in the past; at today's committee meeting, Károly Antali said that your Fidesz television was twisting his words, he did not say that there were irregularities, he even said in the committee that he thought there was a conceptual process. You invite everyone, you drag everyone around, you're in complete panic to find a way to put the blame on someone else, you come up with 8 and 10 and 15-year-old cases, when, once again, the money was stolen from the banks you started in the last year and a half. You can't steal money from a bank founded a year and a half ago eight years ago. You can drag whoever you want, hold all kinds of committee meetings, and you have a clear responsibility. Now it's just that you stop blaming someone else, stop this charade, focus on giving people, entrepreneurs, municipalities, NGOs 100% compensation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They're supposed to be working on this, not smearing their own responsibilities. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond.
u2015-03-09-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, [[It's constant noise.]]
u2015-03-09-8	[[It's ringing.]] Secretary of State, a little...
u2015-03-09-9	This somewhat pathetic explanation of the Socialist Party has turned out to be quite weak. The first item to be denied, and maybe it's appropriate to look into things, is that the money didn't disappear from the bank. [[Zoltán Lukács: Where did they disappear from?]] This is your foundation, but from the Buda-Cash financial firm. Securities held by the bank which have been retained [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] owned by the bank [[Zoltán Lukács: It was like that!]] and guaranteed the bank's operation, these securities, these money disappeared from the Buda-Cash Broker house. [[Zoltán Lukács: Then why are people lining up at the bank?]] So it's not true for you either. But let's look at the facts. As regards legislation and control: during the governance of Fidesz, when you took over government, you had to monitor these financial investors and businesses every two years until 2005. In 2005, you thought about it, and you made a law that there was no regulation on when to control these financial investments. [[Zoltán Lukács intervenes.]] If the organisation was in the mood, it checked it, if it wasn't in the mood, it didn't check it, so it was subjective during this period, during the period of the socialists; until the country went bankrupt, and you had to turn to the IMF. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Has the country gone bankrupt?]] And in exchange for assistance, the IMF ordered the government of that time, your socialist government, to regulate it, because it is unique in the world that there is simply no time regulation for these businesses, which manage people's money, when to be controlled. It was very difficult for them to adopt such a law in 2009, which, by the way, Fidesz did not vote, so you were wrong about this... [[Zoltán Lukács: The amendment was voted in favour!]] Fidesz didn't vote for the law itself. [[Zoltán Lukács: The amendment is!]] [[11.20]] But there's another problem. For a law passed in 2009, that, no, it was urgent for the Buda-Cash to carry out the inspection. In light of the April 2010 elections, the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions has ordered control of Buda-Cash. This on-the-spot check was very short and lasted only two weeks. [[Gábor István Bellozó: No! Just the truth.]] and identified shortcomings, but the most fundamental deficiency that this financial undertaking could no longer operate has not been established. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. Gábor István Bellozó: When did you not find out?]] but basically gave this company another five years; of course, hoping that the next financial audit, which was well calculated, would be after the next elections, and you were still right to hope that in 2014 a new government would run the country, and then you would tell us again who and how, and how, will control the Buda-Cash Broker House. [[Zoltán Lukács: This was invented by that lunatic Habony again! The way he paints his hair, he's so stupid. Stop that Habony bullshit! It's so fucked up, it's horrible! Dr. Robert Répássy: This isn't a pub!]] As far as reality is concerned, the Buda-Cash Broker House provided quarterly data and provided falsified data that supported their embezzlement. They were able to do this until the Hungarian National Bank reached the Buda-Cash Broker House after the end of the five years, in connection with the control of the four banks. On Monday morning, the check-up started, and that, no, by nightfall, it all came out. Everything! On Monday evening, 23 February, we had the report, the police went to the financial firm and seized all the documents. [[Zoltán Lukács: What did you do for five years? But whatever. Stop it! L. Simon László: Let him speak!]] So the statement of the Hungarian Socialist Party is not true. There is one important and important thing: it must be revealed that this serious crime, in which people's money was stolen, who did it and how they did it [[Zoltán Lukács: Who? And who helped them?]] And what they did with more than 100 billion forints. They must be responsible, they will be, and they will finally receive their worthy punishment. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Indemnify the people!]] For what has been done to people by this serious crime, they must be punished. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, she also applied for a speech before the agenda: the most valuable guarantee of Hungary's future with the title of good family policy. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-09-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Six days from now, the country celebrates the 15th of March, the Memorial Day that has completed the process that was preceded by many of its Parliaments at the time of reform. At these Parliaments, the nation's greats discussed the future of the country, the civil transformation and freedom in a worthy way. It always pains me a little, when I feel this responsibility not in many, but in pointing out each other, in the context of the speeches and other speeches before the agenda. I am now applying for a speech before the agenda on a topic which is just about the future, on our common affairs: family and children, whose fate is naturally linked. We all know that Hungary is not in a very good position in this area yet. The number of children born alive is still very low, the so-called birth rate is 1.34 percent, while it would take 2.1 percent to reproduce our nation. Our Fundamental Law gives us every opportunity to support families, Article L states that Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between men and women, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. This article of our Fundamental Law is fully in line with Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which I do not quote, and with a number of international documents. As I said, however, our situation is far from good. In 33 years, our population was 800,000, while in 1970 nearly 152 thousand children were born in one year, in 2013 only 88 689. However, there is no reason for despair, because the trend has turned around and is increasing. Contrary to the 2013 figure, 91 500 children were born in 2014, which represents a 3.2 percent improvement, and the number of marriages increased by 4.6 percent. If this trend continues, then perhaps we do not have to face the national death vision set out at the beginning and before the reform, but will grow, live and flourish. I want us all to know, see, and the people of this country know what our government has done to increase families, so that the number of children will increase. I myself have compiled ten or a few of these measures, and I will not be able to mention them here, I would only mention in the headlines: family tax relief, ged extra, supplementary leave, compulsory use of part-time work, and the obligation to issue new baby bonds, this fifth, sixth time I can mention the Erzsébet program, making children's meals free for all children, the number of increased nursery places, the compulsory kindergarten building, the compulsory kindergarten, the free textbooks, which now covers more than half of the children, the home creation program, the so-called CSOK program, the retirement of women for 40 years. There has not been a government that has done so much for the future of families and children, but all of these are material measures. These are necessary to feed families and children. But there is also a need for complex job creation programmes, which have also started to expand the employment of women and a family-friendly environment in which the family and child become valuable not only in words but also in actions. Like I said, in six days, we're celebrating March 15th. On this day, there are countless programs throughout the country where families, children, parents, grandparents have fun together. On the 15th of March, the feeling of patriotism burns in all of us. But it's good to remember the words of Uncle Gyimesi, who said that it's not the real patriotism that shows that national flags are floating in the wind, but where diapers are. So this is what I wish for the Hungarian nation to see many diapers on the Hungarian ropes. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-09-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, it is important to talk about what the country has done in the last four and a half years in terms of the country's long-term problems as often as possible here in Parliament, together with government support and encouragement. We have created a family-friendly tax system, a family-based and work-based future for Hungary, where people who have children and work alongside it feel like the most beneficiary, they feel that what Fidesz-KDNP accepts as a law in Parliament is born in their interest. An important part of this was the job creation programme, which resulted in 400 thousand more working today than four and a half years ago. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How much do you make?]] However, it is equally important that an average family in Hungary today can come out of more than HUF 20,000 four and a half years ago, as the state takes less money in the form of taxes and contributions. [[11.30]] Most were won by those who have the lowest income, since they can also be described by contributions, not only do they not have to pay taxes, they do not have to pay contributions. But obviously, the more children one takes, the less money the government takes from him, so the more he has left to farm himself from his own family register. This also has results, not only in the amount of money left for families month after month and overall, as the amount left by Fidesz-KDNP in the pockets of families is already 700-800 billion forints, and the families could spend it themselves, not by the state, but also in the various population figures and ratios. Compared to four years ago, 5500 more children are born. That's 14 percent improvement. The 5500 children are a very important part of what you mentioned about the disappearance of the population of a small town in Hungary every year. To this extent, to this extent, to this extent, not within the statistical percentage of errors, but tendentically, we can already see that Hungary's population numbers have improved, at least the rate of decline has decreased. This is important because we also have a fundamental law on the protection of families, which guarantees in the long term that it will remain the same in the main elements of the family support system. Compared to the low point in 2011, we have finally managed to make a real difference, as I said to you, this now represents HUF 860 billion in aggregate additional support for families. This is 740,000 forints in four years for one family, with which they can farm more than in the previous period. The fertility rate of 1,26 in 2010 increased to 1,41 in 2014 and the last quarter. Let's compare that to a couple of numbers. Before the crisis, it was 1.35, which is already surpassed by the current 1.41, so we came back in the fertility rate for the period before the Bokros package. This is the confidence of families in the future, and this is reflected in childbearing. There must have been a lot of difficulties for families, either under the Medgyessy or under the Gyurcsány government or during the Bokros package, but I see something of this trust has been recovered by Fidesz-KDNP in four years. And if you look at the number of living births, you can talk about a 30-year record here, and in 1985 there were as many living births as there are now. I think it's a common success. Among the many advantages, we can highlight, for example, baby bonds and Start accounts, which have quadrupled in the years since their introduction. Now 70,000 children have baby bonds, this means an average of at least 160,000 HUF. This will help young people start out in many ways. We can see the Socpol discount, which was also abolished by the socialist in eight years. This was previously introduced to a limited extent by this government, between HUF 800,000 and HUF 3 million 250 thousand was the amount that young families, when they took up a child, could use as a support for the construction of a new apartment or the purchase of a new apartment. And here comes a huge extension from 1 July this year, the CSOK, the family's home-building discount, which provides opportunities for both single-child and used apartments for buyers; from 700 thousand forints to more than 1 million 100 thousand forints is the amount of support that families can use. In this year's budget, with the support of the governing parties, HUF 9.5 billion has been added to the fact that, once the children are born, 5500 more than four and a half years ago, there should be a nursery where these children can be taken. We can also mention the increase in the maximum child care fee, which has also increased from 102,000 to 147 thousand forints, and I hope that I can continue to list this line at another time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-09-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking also before the agenda, Mrs Bernadett Szél, from the Group of the LMP, has applied for equal pay for equal work for women! It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-09-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now speak out to reduce the poverty of workers, especially in the interests of women, and again demand a wage increase in this country. Obviously, it is not easy for them to do so, because if there is institutionalized corruption in a country, there is no money for wages, no money for working people. There is no money for families - not the Garancsi family, the Ripper family, but the working Hungarian families - and there is no money to carry out government tasks related to women. If there is institutionalized corruption in a country, it becomes blackmailable, it becomes a prey to great powers or anyone who tries to influence this small, exposed country. This is no way to build Hungary, so you cannot build a strong Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You owe more and more explanations to the working Hungarian people. There's the NAV panel. It's time to start working. There's the MET panel. We want to know where the taxpayers' money goes. And yesterday, I had the pleasure of hearing live from your old comrade, Lajos Simicska, who brought further charges against Viktor Orbán himself. The only way you can get out of this situation is if you vote in favour of the agent law promoted by LMP or six times, you'll clear yourself and everyone else once and for all. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The circumstances you have created here in recent years, and the circumstances that have been created in this country in the last 25 years, everything has happened there. We can see the Fidesz fighting almost everyone. He fought for freedom, for the EU, for the rent. You did not fight for one person: the working Hungarian man and the wages of the working Hungarian people. I'm talking about the simple majority, the simple people, the quiet majority who take this country on their backs. And I am here to highlight women who are particularly at a wage disadvantage even for men. I watched on purpose, Mr Rétvári State Secretary, what the EMMI, the Ministry of Human Resources, had said yesterday, what he thought to say to women on International Women's Day. One thing is clear: for you, we are worth as many children as we give birth, and it is clear that they are afraid of gender equality as devils of holy water. You simply turn your eyes away from the problem of living in a country where women earn far less money than men, even though we learn much more, we have better results, and when we start working on the labour market, specifically when we start having children, we are permanently at a disadvantage. CHAPTER XXI This should not be the case in the first century. The LMP stands to increase women's wages and to increase women's protection in the labour market. We need to see that workers' poverty affects women even more in this country. It is a scandal that women's gross average wage is 21 percent less than that of men, and the worst fact is that this disadvantage remains in retirement. Hungarian women can expect a 13 percent lower pension. The situation is bad, and the Orbán government has become even more serious in the last five years. I remember when Minister Mihály Varga was a candidate for minister, he came to the committee hearing and I asked him what he would do to reduce the pay gap. Mihály Varga replied that this is part of the market economy. Gentlemen and ladies, That's an unacceptable thought. You, a responsible Hungarian government, can't think that way! One of the reasons for the wage differences is that you have also removed the principle of equal pay for equal work from the Fundamental Law. It's a shame. The other is that women need jobs where you have failed to meet the most basic wage demands in recent years. See what's going on with the nurses. See what's going on with social workers. Or what happens to child protection workers! They make undeservingly little money, and you don't raise wages. What do you think you're doing? The LMP would be the first to raise wages here, because we clearly see that in these professions they work for our future, they work with the children. I'm talking about the nurses' wages. How can you tolerate this, Mr. Secretary of State? There's a big misunderstanding about part-time work. Part-time work can provide a solution for some women, but many women have a way into poverty. Flexible work is needed. And wash off the shame you've done once and for all, that parents under three years of age They've been fired from the workplace, and Fidesz-KDNP has done it this way. I urge you to change this situation, to accept the LMP bill in this direction, and to finally grant protection to parents with small children again in this country. Today, we are presenting a parliamentary resolution proposal to ensure that you have an equal pay programme, which, in effect, if you do so, will result in this unworthy situation changing in this country. I understand they're not in an easy position, there's institutionalized corruption in this country, you've created it, you'll be billed by your old pals. But one thing I ask of you, do not forget the people for whom we do our work here in Parliament. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-09-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-03-09-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Hungarian Government, to greet the ladies with respect and respect for women's day. Hopefully, it'll take 24 hours. The intention is very clear on the part of the government. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.40]] What my dear fellow Member has said, I would like to draw attention to you, and first I would like to enrich you with a personal experience. Employment policy is one of the most important issues in Hungary. The secretary of state I'm working on is nearly 70 percent ladies. This means that a significant part of the success of Hungarian employment policy is due to women [[Interview from the lines of the LMP: And what is in the Parliament, in the government?]] It is the ladies who can add the most value in this regard to the work that the Hungarian Government has done both in employment policy and in the fight against unemployment. As to the specifics, allow me, Congresswoman, to mention a few things to you. Women's employment is at its peak in Hungary. [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP:]] 1.9 million women are working in Hungary today, this has not been the case for seven years, and technically, if we look at the employment rate, the rate between the ages of 15 and 64, this means that women's employment is at a peak of more than two decades. Of the 28 Member States of the European Union, women's employment grew at the fastest rate in Hungary: 3.4 percentage points in one year. The unemployment of young women, the unemployment of 15-24-year-olds in recent years, if I look at only one year, has decreased from 24% to 17 percent. These are all such important elements, I think, that we should bear in mind when talking about the situation of women. You mentioned the flexible form of employment. We have already had this debate on the Labour Code. Not just by us, but by the Hungarian Parliament, whether it is the right thing to do until the child's three-year-old to have an absolute degree - I say in quotes - to attach the ladies to his work, and this means that it cannot be dismissed in any way; or whether it is important and necessary to protect workers here on flexible terms, to protect young workers with children, but the current Labour Code does not really establish an absolute rule compared to the previous one. Dear Congresswoman, Look at the experience of the previous Labour Code and the current one. How does the employer think? The employer thinks that if there is absolute protection, then I will virtually not hire the employee who otherwise requires absolute protection, and this is clear and clear from the statistics. I would just like to point out that the current Labour Code provides adequate protection and protection which, by the way, also supports the conditions of entry into employment. As far as wages are concerned, honourable Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no doubt that we could not only go to Hungary, but to the EU in general, but also to a wider cross-section, unfortunately in a lower job than that of men. That's an undisputed fact. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not a Hungarian specialty. After all, in the 28 Member States of the EU, women's actions are roughly 16 percent lower than those of men, while in Hungary - which year we are looking at - this is around 18 percent. So there is a difference, but not to the extent that you've been visualizing, but let me give you an example: in Germany, there is a 21,6 percent difference in wages by gender at the moment. I think - and I could list here on a continuous basis the measures that the Hungarian Government has taken in the past period, between 2010-14 - these measures are present both in family policy and in demographics as well as in employment, and they are not only present but also have their beneficial effects. You are right, that is without doubt a lot more than women, so we in Parliament, too, and we must seize all the means to have even better demographic data and even better employment data in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, leader of the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title "The New Socialist Broker Scandal." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-03-09-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, many today are interested in what could have been the essence of the second socialist broker scandal. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I think that this can be put very nicely and clearly in one simple sentence, honourable Members. Brokers and owners of the brokerage company linked to the socialists first stole the money of the brokerage company's clients [[Noise, interrogations from the lines of the MSZP: And private pension funds, right?]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, when they had the opportunity, a significant part of the deposits of small people working hard in savings cooperatives, small banks, was removed. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: You're in big trouble.]] That is the essence of the second socialist brokerage scandal, honourable Members. And let's just say, of course, it's clear that this company was your favorite, because you're the only one who trusted the company's supervisory board members and executives, because the Bajnai government turned them into government officials. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Jesus!]] And the Fidesz government fired these government officials. And it can be seen from the fact that you liked brokerage companies, that from the first socialist broker scandal, the Key Price case, you did not conclude that control should be tightened up, but that it was concluded that control should be relaxed. But we all know these facts, fellow Members, so let's take a look at who the people who were the various leaders and officials of Buda-Cash were. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Name by name!]] Because I think it is worth talking a little bit about this, honourable Members. Perhaps Mr Péter Tölgyesi, who is still a member of the board of directors, and he will probably be consulted by the competent authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Which company, with his active involvement, where he was majority owner, would otherwise have received serious subsidies, a Saviour Kht., during which government, in an interesting way? In 2008-2009, during the Bajnai government, he received billion-dollar grants. And who gave the proper background, who provided the responsible back organization for the operation of this company? Annex XIII is replaced by the text set out in Annex XIII to this Regulation. district, local government led by socialists, fellow Members. Or let us look at another good man, Mr János Tóth, who is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Buda-Cash. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, in what company did he function very actively, basically up to and including your 2009 administration as Chairman of the Supervisory Board? Tesco Tanácsadó Kft., whose party-state background is Tesco Különyvkereskedelmi Zrt. His time and even his secret service background are well known and previously known as Source Inc. It was your company owner, which I think you also know very well, my fellow Members. You were the ones who then passed this on to Tamás Leisztinger, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen, Who do you think was the one who once made a HUF 250 million capital increase in Buda-Cash Zrt.? [[Noise.]] Isn't that Mr. Elek who was the minority owner of ATV? Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps you know him well, even from the fact that László Kovács regularly loved to be seen with him, and even gave him awards. Mr István Fodros is also a significant player in the board member of the Buda-Cash in question. Ladies and gentlemen, You may not only know him well from the World Federation of Democratic Youth or the Information Office of the Council of Ministers, but in 2009 you gave him a serious medal to Mr.István Fodros, the Knight Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary, in recognition of his excellent work and business in Buda-Cash. Or, ladies and gentlemen, let us ask the question: yes, Mr Gyarmati - that is Mr Gyarmati - in what companies was also a supervisory committee member, where interestingly people appear to be very attached to you, for example, Mr Lauer, Mr István Lauer, who is the CEO of a company, Hungária Közpárzásítés Zrt., in which Mr Gyarmati also appears; and that Mr Lauer, by the way, was not so long ago the municipal representative of the left-wing local government in Szeged. And I might add, my fellow Members. The problem is that it is obvious from these that you have not only trusted the leaders of Buda-Cash, but you are specifically attached to them with a thousand threads, and even give us the feeling, my fellow Members, that when you are on the government, you are helping people like those at Buda-Cash, when they are not in government, and then you are retiring to companies like Buda-Cash. I therefore consider it important for my own faction that Parliament decide on a committee initiative that will clarify what led to the Buda-Cash broker scandal, why it was necessary to loosen up the control of brokerage companies, what the Bajnai government knew about this, and by the way, in May 2010, when you last examined the company, how many tens of billions of people's assets were missing at Buda-Cash. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2015-03-09-20	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-21	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I think we can continue with the questions. [[Sándor Burány: Answer me!]] It is also possible to ask why the savings cooperatives behind the banks linked to the brokerage house concerned did not choose state integration, why 120 savings cooperatives in Hungary were good for a state parachute, state control, state supervision, a unified operation, a secure background and security for savings cooperatives customers. Why wasn't this good for these 11 savings unions? I think that the answer to this question is clear today. It was not good because it was not in the best interest of the Buda-Cash Broker house, who, in a sense, managed its capital for these banks, because if they had chosen integration, it would have immediately revealed the serious frauds and crimes at the financial institution, the brokerage house. The transformation was nothing more than to get a way through the Buda-Cash Broker House by those people who took away people's money, hoping, of course, that there would be an election in 14 and something would happen. There is a series of serious crimes behind the operation of the brokerage house, which I think is in the interests of all of us, and it is in Hungary's interest that the investigating authorities find out as soon as possible, how this could happen in Hungary, that for many years, for more than decades, people have been fooled, the authorities have also been tricked and people's money disposed of. If we look at it from another point of view, we need to talk about the government's duties and the responsibility of the government. The first thing the Ministry of National Economy has already initiated is to review the legislation; a dialogue with the Hungarian National Bank has already started in order to practice and tighten up supervision measures and investigations. Such a dialogue has begun, with the result that the government will also discuss this proposal. On the basis of the Minister's opinion, it is necessary to concentrate from five years to at least three years and to exercise supervisory control of investment services. But fines must also be aggravated and many other professional instruments should be used that are transparent and serve the purpose of bringing such acts to the surface immediately. It has a responsibility and a responsibility for the government to pay compensation so that it does so properly. Thus, the National Deposit Insurance Fund has already started to pay compensation in the spirit of the law, and will pay more than HUF 100 billion to the people who kept their money and savings in the banks; this is up to EUR 100 thousand. This could extend to 20 working days, so the compensation will be completed by the end of March. The government will also pay attention to the fact that the Deposit Protection Fund will also start its activities under the law and start its compensation. Here the amount of compensation is lower, about EUR 20 thousand, i.e. about HUF 6 million. I believe that the government also has a responsibility for local authorities and public organisations, because the government cannot allow public service organisations and local authorities to fail to perform their public services. Therefore, the government guaranteed the payment of aid and wages by means of the first measure, which took place last week; in the second stage, we assess the damage, assess how much money the municipality has got stuck in there, and, after assessing the situation, the government will decide to what extent and how it can compensate the municipalities in order to maintain their viability. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-22	We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ikotity István, LMP; Magyar Zoltán, Jobbik; Novák Előd, Jobbik; Vágó Sebestyén, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; László Varjú, independent; Márta Demeter, MSZP; István Tukacs, MSZP; László Teleki, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Varga, MSZP. Dear Parliament, Now we move to the agenda of questions and immediate questions at 11:56 p.m. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Why does the government see a good deal in bank fraud? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2015-03-09-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as I can tell, Mr. Secretary will answer. Well, then, Mr. Secretary of State. In June 2013, the government reported that the Hungarian State gained 49 percent minority qualified influence in Széchenyi Bank using HUF 3 billion of public money. At the time, the acquisition of ownership seemed to fit in with Viktor Orbán's long-proclaimed plan, according to which the share of Hungarian banks should be permanently increased to 50 percent in the domestic banking system. One question about the business is still unclear; it was quite clear at the time of the negotiations that the bank of István Töröcskei, who had good relations with the Prime Minister, produced scary numbers. In 2013, he suffered a loss of more than HUF 2 billion, which is equivalent to a situation close to bankruptcy at a small bank. It is more than obvious that the government had to be aware of the bank's numbers. Then why did the state join the financial institution? In November 2014, the Hungarian National Bank took control of Széchenyi Bank and even withdrew its license. The Central Bank has also launched an investigation and has been reported in connection with misappropriation and other abuses. Dear Minister, More specifically, Mr. Secretary of State. How could this have happened in half of a state-owned bank? Mr. Secretary. Please give the National Assembly an account of why the government has decided to buy half of a bank close to bankruptcy and then, after its liquidation, compensate the large capital, all with the taxpayers' money. I look forward to your answer and the names of those responsible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-09-24	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Hungary has had a difficult time in many respects, because we had to survive the crisis [[Zoltán Lukács: Not yet!]] to survive the eight-year governance of the socialists [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Stop it! Answer the question...!]] The country's destruction, financial bankruptcy; they had to survive by the foreign exchange credentials, by being deceived, by the socialist governments, by setting them up, by promising them prosperity, and the foreign exchange loan, as it turns out, was the undoing of many hundreds of thousands of families. Hungary has certainly had a difficult time, but the Fidesz government has already put a number of problems in place and solved them. Next up is the financial and banking restructuring. [[12.00]] The restructuring of the banking system - since, after such a severe financial crisis, it is noticeable that the Hungarian banking system needs to be changed structurally, as well as property, in order to ensure that the right path, healthy operation, lending to the country, the economy, the people and the budget can be done in a fair and fair way. This decision also includes the purchase of 49 percent of Széchenyi Bank. Unfortunately, the original plan to create a well-functioning bank with the government did not come true. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Who is responsible?]] It has been wound up, and the state - as 49 percent owner - has indeed been obliged to do so, but it has been placed in the direction of depositors. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I believe that the state has acted responsibly as owner in order to compensate the people concerned. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-09-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:, Anomalies around the purchase of land due to misinterpreted and unusable land traffic laws? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-09-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have often debated the Land Traffic Act here, and I would now like to inform the Secretary of State about its practical use. I wouldn't waste time reading the exact legal text, you know the land traffic law. I would like to illustrate, through a particular example, how inadequate this is in practice, despite the fact that, at this point, we have interpreted it as being accurate in the terms of the Land Traffic Act. Consider an ordinary example: 10 hectares of agricultural land have been used for 20 years by the same family, let's say, i.e. kft. In the form of 50-50 percent, the owner of two people, father and son, the area allowance has been accepted after land use. The owner decides to sell this land, and the two owners would like to buy it in a proportion of 7 hectares to 3 hectares. There will be 60 days of suspension, and for formal reasons, the land office will reject the contract. This was announced in advance to the affected by the land administration, as it is standard practice. The position of the Land Administration is to go to trial, because they too would be very happy if the situation were finally clarified. How can you imagine, Mr. Secretary of State, that neither a lawyer nor an accountant nor an MVH, nor a tax authority, nor you can give a resolution to the Land Administration in this case? This makes it difficult for people who want nothing but to continue to cultivate the land they have been doing for 20 years, within family frameworks. In communication, you are constantly saying that you are on the side of family farmers, but this example shows that this bureaucratic, opaque system is nerve-wracking, and this story has not progressed in six months. So they won't make their situation any easier, but if your friends get into this kind of problem, or if you don't give it to me, God, there's foreign land grabbing interests in the background, interestingly, these cases will be solved in seconds. What do you intend to do to eliminate such bureaucratic, nerve-wrenching situations? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-28	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-03-09-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, Your critical remarks regarding the new land traffic regulations, allow me to refuse. Under the law, the farmer who uses the land is entitled to a pre-emptive right. The term "farmer" using the land means a farmer who has been using the land for at least three years and a land user registered in a public land use register. This condition is not met if the land user registered in the land section is not the buyer or the person making the right to pre-empt, but the limited liability company owned or owned by that person, Ltd. an undertaking with an independent legal personality, the rights and obligations of which may be. In the registration of use, the company. the right of use registered in favour of the company is granted separately from its members. The cvt. Your member can't claim your rights as his own. On this basis, the established uniform ground office practice is, in our view, correct and consistent with the existing legislative provisions. Honourable Congressman, The government has created transparent relations with regard to the use of land by creating new land traffic regulations. The termination of the loan agreements by law was necessary because in many cases the parties concealed a lease, bypassing the exercise of the pre-lease right, in the background it was for land use remuneration. In response to its specific question, the owner of the land shall benefit from the crop or profit of the activity produced as a result of the agricultural activity carried out on his land under the contract of cultivation. I would like to stress that the cultivation contract which is a party cannot serve as a means of circumventing the right to pre-lease. Tax-free income from the cultivation of the land of the owner if the duration of the joint use under the cultivation contract is up to five years. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-30	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Wind, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Who is responsible? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-03-09-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to remind you of one of your old colleagues, Mr. Szilárd Kiss. Mr. Kiss became a man of fidesz circles around the 2000s. A very active businessman in Moscow was first destined to market Hungarian crops and food as an agricultural attaché of the Moscow Embassy for the purposes of the foreign affairs, and later became an employee of the Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for the economic relations of the Eastern opening. It is not clear what position you are in, so if you could clear that up, we would be happy to hear it, because it flew up in the press that you were a Commissioner for Ministers, but you deny it; then we would like to know exactly what Mr Kiss was appointed. However, in the meantime, it turned out that Mr Kiss had also worked on his own beard, since it was a final judgment that he sold Hungarian, so Schengen visas for money to businessmen. In the meantime, it has also been revealed that Mr Kiss has failed several times in the national security review and that he has now been arrested in advance on suspicion of economic fraud. This is where the government's former businessman responsible for opening the East is, of course, everyone in the government is pretending to have never heard of Mr Kiss, but this is not permissible. Please respond clearly to the question of who was the person in the Ministry of Agriculture who decided to appoint Szilárd Kiss despite the national security risks identified by the existing and services. Who was the one who decided not to consider that Szilárd Kiss failed the screening, not once, but twice. Whoever did this has, in our view, seriously compromised the safety of the wallet's work, and must therefore assume all political responsibility and leave the wallet. Thank you.
u2015-03-09-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, who will answer your question.
u2015-03-09-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, The arrest of Szilárd Kiss is not related to the work he has done for the Ministry of Agriculture. As a result of its work, Hungary's agricultural exports to Russia continued to increase by 25 percent from 2012 onwards. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] According to the Ministry of Agriculture, his appointment was useful for Hungarian agricultural exports. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-03-09-34	Mr. István Nagy, I ask for your patience, because the MSZP is holding a group meeting in the room, so please continue in the hallway. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-09-35	I would like to repeat my last sentence to the congresswoman. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, his appointment was useful for Hungarian agricultural exports. Thank you very much for asking. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The answer?]]
u2015-03-09-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dénes Galambos, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Dagad is the second socialist broker scandal! Where is the money of 84 municipalities gone, and how does the state help them? It's an address. [[Zoltán Lukács: I can tell. You don't.]] Congressman Dénes Pigeon has the floor.
u2015-03-09-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, By decision of 4 March 2015, the Council of Stability of the Hungarian National Bank withdrew Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt. At the same time, he initiated the liquidation of the company. [[12.10]] It became clear what the Hungarian public had already observed with shock, namely that a new socialist brokerage scandal had emerged shortly after the Key Price issue. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] which Mr Antal Rogán referred to in his speech outside the agenda. [[Zoltán Lukács intervenes.]] Although we can't say... Yesterday's name day, it seems, has been hard on Congressman Zoltán Lukács' patience. [[Defiance. Zoltán Lukács: It didn't bother me at all! Your bullshit is putting up with me! The president's ringing the bell.]] Although it cannot be said that the case is unique, it is different from the previous socialist financial fraud. [[Zoltán Lukács: Shame! Read what Habony wrote.]] that this time not only the funds of the close customers and the public companies were taken into the wrong hands, but also the municipalities that were already in difficulty were the worst, since 84 municipal authorities and 52 national authorities had been billed to the financial organisation. [[Zoltán Lukács: Is this what Árpí writes?]] Thanks to the government's rapid response, the working committee on the Buda-Cash case was set up, which, in cooperation with the Treasury, prevented direct financial collapse. The majority of the injured municipalities would already have difficulties in completing the wage payments due in March, and therefore the Ministry of National Economy is primarily assisting the 84 municipalities who are the most serious victims of falsified accounting in the framework of extraordinary grants. The extraordinary grants amount to some HUF 245 million, which will prevent the financial failure of local governments, and as a further step, the National Deposit Insurance Fund will pay the savings of depositors up to a ceiling of HUF 30 million. Dear Secretary of State, It is certainly good to see that the state is able to act sober and effectively in a difficult situation. [[Interview in the lines of the MSZP: Time! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm asking you to answer that question and reassure the investors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-38	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Secretary András Tállai... [[Zoltán Lukács: Please read what Árpí says. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to warn Congressman Luke that his shouting disturbs the work of Parliament. This is the first warning, Mr President, and I warn you that I do not wish to enforce the possibilities that I have in this House Rule. With great respect, I ask Congressman Luke... [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: That's what this genre is for, isn't it?]] With great respect, I ask Congressman Luke to help me with my work by cooperating a little bit. [[Zoltán Lukács: If you ask so nicely.]] You have the floor, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-09-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the biggest losers of the Buda-Cash scandal may be the municipalities, since they are not subject to any insurance or compensation rules. The law does not apply only in Hungary, anywhere in the European Union, to municipal and state compensation issues in this case. Of course, the government feels responsible and responsible for the issue and does not abandon the municipalities. The first step was that the municipalities where the state aid was not sufficient - which, by the way, was sealed in a treasury account, the monthly benefit of February - were supplemented, and that is HUF 245 million for the particular 67 municipalities. We have added that their contribution in February will be paid to the public workers, the civil servants and the welfare workers. As far as I know, he's made it through one way or another through the mail or through the old bank account, and I think it's a big achievement. On Wednesday the last week, Prime Minister met with the mayors of the municipalities concerned in the presence of several ministers and State Secretarys, where they could tell the problem, the size of the problem, the weight of the problem. The aim of this was to ensure that the government could help and what the problem was. As a result, in the second step, the Ministry of Interior sent a data sheet to the municipalities concerned, in which we essentially assess the extent of the problem. Here it is necessary for the municipalities to describe the amount of money they received and the other way they were affected - water utility company, business company, institution - and when these data sheets arrive, a presentation will be submitted to the government, and we will determine how the government will help and recover. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question with the title "The Savings Co-operatives After Expansion." The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Lázár, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2015-03-09-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is worth looking back at the events of the last year in relation to the savings cooperatives. I want to recall these events because one of the most shameful incidents of a complete financial network has taken place. Because speaking of questions, Minister, I ask you, do you deny that a financial network has been taken from your members by the power of the law? Do you deny that the law - which you have made - bought the Hungarian state by force and then changed the rules of operation? Do you deny, Minister, that this system has subsequently been played over by friends in a questionable privatisation procedure, to put it mildly? But they've always been better informed, it seems, because some people didn't want to be involved in this case, so they became banks in record time, obviously trying to protect their own store. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: This is shame!]] During record time, institutions that have now fallen for Buda-Cash and owe people money could become banks. So the question is: how did these institutions become banks? How did it happen that banks who had a serious role to play in financial institutions could become banks who had to complete serious deficits from the moment they were introduced? How could those who collapse in seconds become banks in the following year? How could institutions that now appear to owe to people become banks? Dear Minister, I am not in the position to make suggestions, but it would be good for you to urge your colleagues to focus on the compensation and full compensation of the people rather than on the effort to push the scandal over to others. Thank you very much. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2015-03-09-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2015-03-09-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, On the tone, which is more like the tone of an interrogation, I am a little surprised, given that István Tukacs is my fellow Member from recent years as one of Ferenc Gyurcsány's most loyal allies. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: There is a problem if you say such things!]] I've come to know him as a calm and sober man. This tone is unusual for him, and I am surprised that the savings unions or these hundred billion have in some way turned him on. First of all, my fellow Member, Tukacs, allow me to make a note of the history of Buda-Cash - and here I am talking specifically about the banks or former savings cooperatives that have been involved in this matter, and which really have been looted by Buda-Cash and whose claims have been made by the municipalities and the people - that these former savings cooperatives could have gotten away with it if they had been included in the savings cooperative integration. I must deny you what is wrong with my personal respect, but I must deny it, because, on the basis of the reports of several Hungarian commercial banks, the European Commission has conducted an investigation into the integration of savings cooperatives, and if you are Europeans and support the European Commission, then you should know and acknowledge that the European Commission has examined two things in the investigation carried out: one is the circumstances of the establishment of integration that you are asking for, and the second is the 136 billion guarantee that the state provides behind the savings cooperatives. In both cases, the Commission closed the investigation - I am happy to report - with approval, legal, regular and otherwise state-friendly integration of the savings cooperative, states the European Commission [[Interjection in the lines of the MSZP: For some people, yes.]] So your debate is not with me, my fellow Member. In the context of the integration of the savings cooperative, the savings cooperatives that were included in the integration, won, were screened, more than a dozen were driven out of the market because they had stolen, cheated, lied, and had more than 136 billion guarantees behind them. If these banks, former savings banks, had been involved in this guarantee, they wouldn't have been the victims of Buda-Cash. And I hope that the committee of inquiry will clarify everything, and the Hungarian National Bank has given the OBA a loan of 106 billion to pay off the victims. But I am very happy to be at the disposal of my fellow Member on the basis of our old acquaintance. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-44	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Will there still be public security in Hungary under their government? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed. [[12.20]]
u2015-03-09-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Sad, but five years after we have put the campaign slogan in order within two weeks, it still makes sense to ironify or even annoy this phrase. Let us quickly state this: this is not the poverty certificate of the opposition. In the last five years, Hungary's public security has deteriorated in the same way as in the previous 20 years, no matter how they try to disprove it with numbers, magic or swinging statistics. The most amazing is the huge media censorship that prevents crime from being made public. Let me give you an example of my own residence: In many settlements of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, burglaries have become commonplace. It is a very common thing to disappear overnight with various tools, or even from gardens with much cared for vegetables and fruit. The nightmare of an old man working his life is that his life's work will be ruined. Unfortunately, that's what's happening. Unscrambled individuals sneaking into houses take money, TV, firewood. Luckily, the elderly person staying at home sleeps through it. But there have been many cases of abuse or murder. This is what happened last year in Mezőkövesd, this year in Mezőkeresztes, as well as in Chermely. Old people are terrified. In Mezőkövesden, only the representatives of the local government came to the police to see a tree thief and the elderly man he robbed. The law-abiding citizen, who reported in the course of his arrest by tree thieves, was appalled to inform the police that he was responsible for the tree on the ground until it was transported by the authorities. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you, why is the police unable to protect the elderly, law-abiding and law-abiding citizens? How could a policeman have developed such an amazing state that he would prefer to dissuade the victim of the complaint and that he could not offer more than his advice? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's firm and straightforward reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-09-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-09-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start by explaining the facts. Over the last five years, there have been 70,000 fewer registered crimes. [[Zsolt Egyed, Dániel Z. Karpat intervenes. Lajos Korózs: Because you don't register!]] As in 2010, the number of crimes committed to the harm of the elderly has decreased significantly and the number of high-profile crimes has also decreased significantly. Honourable Congressman, On this basis, I think that I am not exaggerating if I say that today people live in Hungary more safely than they did five years ago. Allow me to recall one of the first legislative proposals of 2010 submitted by the Government, which was an amendment to the Violation Act, when the amendment proposal submitted to this House to ensure that detention can also be imposed on those who committed an infringement of property. You also did not support this new law or the new law on infringements that was later tabled. I am very sorry that you call for order, but important law that promotes order will not be voted. Allow me to recall that in autumn 2013, the police launched a model safety programme for five counties in eastern Hungary, including Borsod-Abaúj Zemplén County. As a result, let me tell you, the number of known crimes has decreased by 19.2 percent and the number of high-profile crimes by 10 percent. Yesterday, it was announced that, with the professional support of the National Police Headquarters and the National Crime Prevention Council, the National Civil Guard Association launched a burglary prevention programme. The aim of this is to raise public awareness of the importance of protection against burglary [[One Zsolt interrupts.]] and the use of appropriate safety and technical equipment. Congressman, I'm asking you to stop attacking the police. If the laws are no longer voted for, if the laws are no longer supported, then at least let the police work effectively for the safety of the people. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. The fifty shades of grey, or at what rate does the government intend to repair the rural road network? It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2015-03-09-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In my question today, I was interested in the fact that, in practice, we cannot talk about rural development, rural job creation and small and medium-sized enterprises without talking about rural accessibility. My fellow countrymen, as the government party gives a multitude of single-member constituencies, they know how rural quality of life is influenced by the state of the road network, which defines the possibility of going to work more and more, but also the key issue of achieving public services. A multitude of rural roads are full of potholes and various road repairs, but in no way ensure that three and four-digit roads are able to travel normally. Not so long ago, we saw Mr. Happy in a pothole, and now I have a photo of Mr. Vona Group leader, so more and more people are lying in potholes to draw attention to this problem. If this works, I'd love to sleep in one of these, but I'd love to... [[Intercom from the Fidesz benches.]] Yeah, I'd do that before truck traffic, of course. I would be pleased if the Ministry could provide us with the opportunity to get accurate information as to whether the government is planning to make a substantial contribution to rural connecting roads and access roads. The reports that have come to light say that 54 percent of roads are of poor quality and do not comply with road traffic rules, so traffic at maximum speed is not guaranteed by conditions. To halt the deterioration of the national road network of 30,000 kilometres, the government's current expenditure is no longer sufficient. We need the roads in the country, we need the three and four-digit roads, not just the main roads. We're asking the government to give us an answer as to when these renovations will turn into something. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-50	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2015-03-09-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I'm glad to ask because I can answer that question, and I can certainly give you good news. This is also important because we all know that the greatest challenge of transport policy is the maintenance, maintenance and preservation of roads, roads and roads. We also know that while we have the possibility of building motorways and motorways from EU sources, we can only use them to maintain maintenance and to maintain roads. This is why it was a great challenge, but it is also a huge achievement by Hungary that we have been able to use HUF 33 billion in the last year to renovate a two- and three-digit road and strengthen the hull. I am happy to report that within days the 50 billion HUF frame will be visible, I do not know if this is the title of a romantic movie - so this source will soon be announced and visible this year, which, if spent, will be visible on the roads as well. I am very confident that, in addition, we can now spend nearly HUF 18 billion on four and five-digit trips from the resources remaining from the regional programmes. So the thing is that I have been a practicing mayor for 20 years, I know exactly, in Nyíradony and in many places in Hungary, that it is not more important that our transport network is okay, that we have contacts and that we can travel in a normal way. Believe me, we strive to use most and most of the toll revenue in this area. I must add that unfortunately, we have other things to do with tolls. The previous PPP investment in Gyurcsány has yet to be covered by HUF 114 billion per year. This takes a lot away from maintaining and maintaining the road network. If we had that, we'd be in a much better place. However, we strive to be able to improve, in many cases, from this opportunity, as I have just mentioned, and in many cases we can solve the problems that we have now. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-09-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question. How does the investment of the American sound manufacturer and design company help to boost the economy and the labour market in Pécs? It's an address. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor.
u2015-03-09-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is true that a large American company is preparing a major investment in our country. Now we know that out of the 64 locations of Harman International, he selected the city of Pécs to create a new factory. Harman International employs more than 16,000 people worldwide and manufactures electronic equipment, high-end car radios and speakers for luxury cars. [[12.30]] As far as I know, the company has already started recruiting its future employees, looking for skilled workers in Pécs and Baranya. Although it is not closely related to Pécs and Harman, it is a special pleasure for me that recently Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, agreed with the European President of the Opel Group responsible for government relations, that Opel will increase the number of 500 people in Hungary and General Motors will create a new training and service centre. Dear Secretary of State, Such and similar success stories are not independent of the fact that the economic environment in Hungary is now stable and predictable. In four years, the Hungarian economy's immune system was strengthened, the government debt was declining, we found a way out of the maze of the excessive deficit procedure, and the Hungarian GDP growth in 2014 was high above the European average in the last year. The new international investments will not only be the result of the above mentioned, but also give new impetus to both our country and local settlements, in this case the city of Pécs. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how does the investment of the American company Harman help to boost the economy and the labour market in Pécs? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Chizi. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Arrowmaker.
u2015-03-09-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On average, about two fifths of the economic growth of the last one and a half decades in Hungary is due to the activity of subsidiaries of foreign investors in Hungary. Companies already established in Hungary are key players in the Hungarian economy. The automotive industry remains the flagship of the Hungarian economy, the sector produced 6650 billion HUF in Hungary last year, and the sector employs over 132 thousand employees. The U.S. Harman sound technology company is creating a HUF 3.5 billion investment in Pécs, to which the Hungarian government grants HUF 750 million. The company is one of the 100 largest first-round automotive suppliers in the world, a supplier of premium manufacturers such as Audi, BMW, Porsche or Rover. In Pécs, the company still takes over the former Elcoteq Szilva Street factory, where it develops hundreds of production bases. With the new investment in Pécs, the company will create 420 new jobs, so the number of employees of Harman in Hungary will exceed 2 thousand. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. When will they provide adequate assistance to the affected municipalities? It's an address. Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2015-03-09-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you myself about the huge bank scandal, the Fidesz bank scandal. I am also saying this because in September 2010, PSZAF, led by Károly Szász, examined the activities of Buda-Cash, which was five years ago, and I say also because a year ago the DRB banking group was allowed to form, and by adopting these laws, you were partly the central bank led by György Matolcsy. But I would no longer like to deal with this, because people, businesses and local governments need to be dealt with, and they need to be helped. After all, 150,000 people are specifically affected by this case, 80 municipalities and thousands of businesses - they are all in a very difficult situation. Much has been said at today's meeting, but it is not exactly what they are planning with the municipalities on this issue. More than HUF 3 billion of them were stuck to the municipalities in the DRB banking group, and it was said from the Secretary of State that 67 of these municipalities were receiving extraordinary support of some HUF 245 million. This sounds good at first, they talked a lot about it last week, but I have information - the news of the last few days - that this aid is refundable, so it is not at all a help that the municipalities receive, and they can use it in this difficult situation, but they must pay it back within a few months. We also need to know - this has also been said - that the OBA option, this 30 million framework, the EUR 100,000 limit does not apply to municipalities, that the municipalities could not in any way receive compensation under current legislation, but you have the opportunity to help them. But not with such reimbursable support, not in such a way, but in such a way that the municipalities receive the money that is trapped in the DRB banking group, because they can maintain institutions, pay rent and pay wages. I ask the Secretary of State: when are you going to help the municipalities? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-09-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, Dénes Galambos Fidesz has already basically asked the same question as you have; let's say he did not have such a remark that a fidesz bank scandal [[Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: It is!]] Or that Charles Szász was responsible for the whole scandal. I suggest that you study the facts better, and then you will see that the on-site inspection at Buda-Cash took place in the period before the change of government, and then they quickly clashed with the check to get it over with, and then there will be something. This suggests, however, that there is a political link to the case. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Of course! They must have turned into banks! Fide and threads! What about the municipalities?]] And that leads right to the socialists. As regards the compensation of municipalities, the government has already decided first: it grants 245 million reimbursable aid to 67 municipalities. This does not mean that they should be reimbursed, because when final support and assistance are determined by the government, they decide which municipality to grant the aid to be recovered or what other assistance is possible. In order to do so, however, the authorities must fill in the information sent to them by the Ministry of Interior on the so-called ebr42 system, the deadline for completing it will expire in the days. They will see from the size of the local authorities and the extent to which they are affected, as they will receive from the insolvency administrator how much money is stuck. Because there are also problems that are not directly linked to the bank, such as the issue of water utilities, possibly budgetary institutions or an EU investment. When we see these, then we will receive substantial help from the municipalities. The reserve for this is the Ministry of the Interior [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is available in the municipal chapter. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: he has failed in logistics, IT and administration. Education or sequel? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-03-09-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, After restructuring the textbook market, it is clear that little has been achieved from the advantages of the government. Even in January, there were schools where the books weren't delivered, and even more teachers were happy to do so because at least they could use the old ones. The planned cost reduction, of course, has slipped away because of the constant photocopying, and the teachers have thus been burdened more in preparing for the lessons. The amount of the state normative has proved to be low in many places as well, because of this there are no workbooks in the lower classes, there are no textbooks for some subjects, but there have also been cases where there were no textbooks on the KLIK list. KELLO, a monopoly on distribution, was almost unavailable to teachers, the phone was not answered, and the e-mails were answered several weeks later, if any. The system was wasted, and on many occasions only a few books were transported. The instability and unpreparedness of the IT system also made ordering and administration difficult. There was also a case where the data was simply lost, and the whole process had to be restarted. There are textbook teachers who complained that they didn't get a hundred forints per child, because now the distributor has signed a contract with KLIK, and the mammoth institution has swallowed the money. The promises of a honey-glazed government about cheap and efficient operation are simply fairy tales, in reality a more complex, inaccurate, wasteful, difficult system was created. [[12.40]] On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State if they are willing to see their mistakes. What is being done to ensure that the system really works effectively? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-62	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-09-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is worth showing the scale, as it is a system that needs to deliver 12 million books to exactly the place in which they can take over at school. The percentage of error, which was the proportion of real errors in the correct, timely textbook orders, is 0.25 percent, as you know, so the number of books that came out wrong can be measured in thousands. Obviously, if you multiply this by 12 million, then these thousands also bring out about as many cases as the congresswoman mentioned. At the same time, I have to say, if you look at it from a different perspective, if you're working with this percentage of error, by a quarter percent, I think that would be acceptable in many cases. But obviously we want to improve this, and we also need to improve it. There are additional orders, they can and should be improved. I find it a little odd that you are flogging the kind of system that has worked well for 150 years in Hungary, because for 150 years you have been a public participant in the textbook publishing process, which was only abolished by the privatisation of the Gyurcsány period after 150 years of Hungarian tradition and made it entirely market-based. Other countries do not necessarily have a market-based system for publishing textbooks. On the other hand, he forgot to mention that 700 thousand children were now given these textbooks for free, because in the ascending system the proportion of them is increasing. Nevertheless, we obviously need to pay attention to what you said, so that all teachers will receive the remuneration set out in the EMMI regulation on the order of textbooks, teacher manuals, textbook support and school textbook provision. This provides for the obligations of KELLO. Between KELLO and KLIK itself, the 2014 accounts are in progress, but the KLIK also has to continuously settle and settle the remuneration of the textbook managers, so the teachers must receive this amount. Obviously, we must strive here for more stringent supervision to ensure that this is observed. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "How does the government intend to keep the Start Pattern Programs alive?" It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2015-03-09-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There have been a number of criticisms of the public work programme over the past period, but there are also a number of indications that there are elements of the Start sample programmes that have gone in a commendable and good direction. However, the report and the government decision on the objectives of public employment in 2015, which was published recently, says that support for the launch of value-creating programmes based on useful local characteristics that help the self-preservation of the settlement remains. However, the provision itself says that the more people they try to employ in this direction, the less support they will receive for the sample programmes. As a result of the investment grants for the Start sample programmes, local authorities have been able to purchase machinery, equipment and equipment so far, and have been engaged in food production and processing in several places. A series of capable city leaders took advantage of these opportunities, which was a way out. There are obviously some downsides to this, as these attempts have not been made to obtain public land, there is no possibility to sell the food products produced, and therefore it is very difficult for local authorities to exit the trap of public works being financed by public funds, rather than having the opportunity to return the participants to the primary labour market on a market basis. We want the municipalities to continue to have the opportunity to ensure that, where such model programmes have been launched, the funding of such programmes is unbroken, and that there is no withdrawal of funds. However, the question is what kind of idea does the government have of how these Start programmes will survive, if a reduction in the number of employees occurs, cannot be sold or given land, so that the operation on a market basis cannot take place. I'd expect an answer to that with respect. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-66	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás Secretary of State for Home Affairs.
u2015-03-09-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, As you said, one of the forms of public employment is the Start sample programme, the sample programmes that started primarily in areas where the people living there are at a greater disadvantage are more disadvantaged than the more economically developed part of the country, and therefore more assistance is needed for the activities carried out in the public work programme itself. Since 2011, such a programme has been implemented with 100% support. The purpose of these programmes is to carry out, in line with the specific characteristics of the settlement, some kind of value-creating activity or some sort of local problem-solving activity. This, in turn, implies that if they carry out activities that generate value or perform local tasks, this local government, the maintainer, must cause a reduction in costs, so in the longer term, I think it is quite clear that it can be expected - because from the other side its costs are reduced - to contribute to this in some way by itself and by itself. It should be added, moreover, that the degree of self-force is not significant, and this self-force is indeed seen in proportion to the number of people. In the case of a programme of 165 people, which lasts for 12 months, 3,91 percent is self-force, which I think can be done in any case. This is, of course, a signal, on the one hand, that there is no way in which some municipalities are trying to step up their efforts to launch a Start sample programme with an increasing number of people in order to add a large amount of investment. So you have to balance the two. Otherwise, the system of social cooperatives can help the survival of the Start sample programmes, and we provide all the support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-03-09-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Tamás Attila Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. How long will the Fidesz and Fidesz gang criminals be covered? It's an address. Mr Attila Harangozó has the floor.
u2015-03-09-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The political ally of Fidesz, President of the Roma minority self-government of Lungo Drom in Szekszárd, János Sárközi, was sentenced to one year and eight months in prison in January. The Fidesz sorority politician used the promise of assigning local government housing to the victims. One month later, István Baranyai, mayor of Fideszes, Pusztaföldvár, was sentenced to a final fine for the commission of fiscal fraud. The mayor of Fidesz busted had to answer for an overpriced investment that would damage a local government, but it's obviously a good deal for some. Despite the judgments, the public could face the fact that convicted Fidesz and Fidesz-fed criminals, as if nothing had happened, could continue their political careers in the same way. The law is clear: the person sentenced to imprisonment is unworthy of the office, so the body of representatives must determine the termination of the mandate. Instead, in violation of the law, the Roma minority self-government of Szekszárd, in an act, not only declared the end of János Sárközi's mandate, but confirmed his position. All of this was proudly reported to the local press. There's nothing to be heard about the county government office in charge of upholding legality doing anything about it. It's an even more revealing statement from the convicted mayor of Pusztaföldvár. According to this, he had already offered his resignation after the judgment at first instance to the then government commissioner and President György Simonka of the Fidesz constituency, but they encouraged him to stay. So this is what the Orbán government official and the head of Fidesz in charge of legality advises a mayor who's been caught in a crime. Mr. Secretary. As Minister of Government Administration, you are personally responsible for the legal operation of the municipalities. That's why I'm asking what else it takes to finally act. How long are they gonna cover for Fidesz and Fidesz gang criminals? I ask for your answer, I look forward to your reply, given that you are aware of this task that it belongs to you. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-03-09-71	Mr. President. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Let us start with Szekszárd, with so much forward that I have already responded to several of my fellow Members who have demanded financial investigations and government inquiries on programmes or matters carried out by Roma minority self-governments that in this world there is no harm in fairness and caution. With that in mind, you are right on a number of issues concerning the Szekszárd case, as follows. Indeed, the head of the Roma minority self-government, who, according to the information, was re-elected on 5 March, was finally sentenced to imprisonment. [[12.50]] If the written minutes are received, this has already been requested by the Government Office from the meeting on 5 March, and a description of the court's judgment is given, and the court's judgment is handed over, then, of course, with immediate effect, by administrative procedure, we shall, in both the civil court and the labour court, arrange for the termination of the mandate as well as of the President's mandate. As far as I know, the situation is different with regard to the case in Szépföldvár, but I must have this examined precisely, and I have ordered this investigation, that in the case of Pusztaföldvár, the mayor was sentenced to a fine for fiscal fraud. As far as I know, this sentence is final, but it wasn't sentenced to imprisonment. The Government Office has the right to take action under administrative procedure if it is sentenced not to a fine but to imprisonment. In the event of a loss of liberty, he loses his mandate as a representative or mayor. I'm going to have the government office examine what legal means of intervention it has. For my part, I think that the mayor who is convicted of budget fraud should resign from his duties. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-09-72	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, do you not want the government to close the only state genetic diagnostic institute? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2015-03-09-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the Secretary of State with the intention of drawing his attention to the alarm he caused, the inconsiderate and uncoordinated transformation of the health background institutions. The problem relates to the survival of the molecular genetic and diagnostic department operating in the framework of the former National Institute of Environmental Health. The wind of the restructuring has also reached this very important department, as the uncertainty and professional dangers of this have been highlighted by the civil sphere, the Healing Goodwill Foundation, and that the operation of the department and diagnostics may be at risk. During the transformation, which was completed by 1 March, it was feared that the class itself would be terminated, the screening of genetic diseases carried out by the class would cease, affecting pregnant people on the one hand and those suffering from the disease on the other. And it was also possible to fear that this class, of which there is only one in Hungary, would no longer be able to carry out important screenings such as spinal muscle atrophy, also known as SMA, but other screenings, established international contacts and patient databases that were managed by this body could have been compromised. It is a big mistake that the government did not otherwise consult with the appropriate bodies or at all during the conversions, because then such hereditary and high-listed organisations would not have remained without information. In the present situation, you can already see that within the framework of the National Public Health Centre, the department is located, and we can only hope that the transition will not suffer from screening, the multitude of patients, the international relations established. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what was good for the hasty transformation of the health background institution. What's the rush? Why do you gamble on health? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-74	Thank you, Congressman Luke. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-09-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In connection with the process of state reform, the government aims, on the one hand, to create a more effective state apparatus and, on the other hand, to create a simpler public administration. In the field of health governance, this is the purpose of the transformation of the background institutions under the control of the health field, and this is also, of course, for the sake of efficient functioning. The reorganisation of the background institutions will also help to achieve the public health objectives more effectively. The government is committed to improving the health of citizens. We consider it important to ensure the safety of health care for residents, and therefore we provide the institutional background for genetic diagnostic testing, including its financing. The integration of the former eight National Institutes of the National Office of Official Medicine aims at economies of scale, thus ensuring more efficient operation and strengthening the professional function of the national institutions, as well as the development of an integrated risk assessment function. In the context of these changes, of course, contrary to what you have quoted here, there is no mention of the cessation of molecular genetic diagnostic activity or even the cessation of molecular genetic diagnostic activity. Honourable Congressman, The preparation of the background institutional transformation of the health sector has highlighted the need to put this activity in a more professionally appropriate institutional environment. This is why it is necessary that the National Institute of Environmental Health, mentioned by you, and especially the activities of the molecular genetic and diagnostic department, can be carried out within the framework of a higher scientific level institution. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Human Resources not only preserves the genetic diagnostic testing capacity, but also makes continuous efforts to increase the level of molecular diagnostic care. Molecular genetic diagnostic care will remain undisturbed and its continuity will continue to be ensured in the future. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the government still want to deny poverty, and why do you believe that if something is not called by its name, it does not exist? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-03-09-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Ministry of Human Resources has introduced a new instrument in the fight against poverty. They figured if they couldn't win the battle at the level of the data, they wouldn't even say the words the data refers to. In the spirit of uniform communication, the Ministry's staff must not use terms such as poverty, extreme poverty, child poverty or equal opportunities. According to official justification, the use of a single word indicates the direction of government policy. The direction of government policy is to ignore the poor, deny even their existence, even though it is clear from income data that the spread of poverty, the slip of masses into poverty, has already begun before, but it has really accelerated after 2010. In recent years, there has been a radical change in people's income situation. Between 2009 and 2013, the real income of 2 million people with the lowest income decreased by 20 percent and only the top tenth situation improved. The ratio between the lower and the upper income tenths has increased by ninefold. The single-key tax on small earners, the taxation of the minimum wage, the drastic reduction in public wages, the freezing of family allowances, the reduction of unemployment benefits and many other measures have led to 60-80 percent of society's situation. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking why the government is turning its head away from the poor, ignoring the yelling social differences. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity István applaud.]]
u2015-03-09-78	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-09-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, There are many ways to talk about people, talk about poverty. On the one hand, wouldn't we talk about poverty? Obviously, honourable Member, if you are here in Parliament and you hear the speeches, you would not be making speeches like you just said. We talk about this every day. This government has inherited a huge task when we talk about poverty. Indeed, in times of crisis, the share of poor people in Hungary has accelerated and increased until 2011. But we can now say that the proportion of people at risk of poverty is falling. And I think you should be proud of that, as it is the result of the work of the Hungarian people. I am not saying it, but based on data validated by Eurostat, the number of people at risk of poverty in Hungary has decreased by 241 thousand. I think we do need to talk about this, because it also shows that the only way out of poverty on a large scale and on a social scale is precisely job creation. A person who doesn't have a job obviously becomes poor, less needy. It is therefore the work that leads everyone out of this difficult situation, the situation of need. That's why we're proud that 400,000 more people are working than before. But if you look at how many people have problems with the heating of the apartment, in the two-year term, the proportion of them has decreased by 250 000 people. The lack of meat food consumption every two days decreased by 480,000 to those who have a problem with it. For no financial reasons, the proportion of those who have a problem has fallen by 70,000 people. But if you look at how many people in Hungary say that for financial reasons they do not have a telephone, TV or washing machine, then they also move between 0.3 percent and 1-2 percent; very, very small parts. [[13.00]] They show that the policy of job creation is the tax reduction policy that the government has implemented. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It has done its job, and we are very proud to talk about it. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What do you think about conflicts of interest? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2015-03-09-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In terms of competences, the disruption of the never-ending nationalisation of education is increasing. A story referred to here took place in Pécs, where Zsuzsanna Páváné Kurnik was placed in the chair of the director of Mátyás Éltes Unified Institute of Medicine, Special Secondary School and College in Pécs, which, according to the press' knowledge, took place in September 2014, before the beginning of the current academic year. An opinion on the appointment shall be given to the maintainer in accordance with the law, citing it to the letter of fact: the Minister responsible for education shall entrust the management board, the maintenance authority, the local government competent according to the institution's seat or the institution's seat to the institution in a multi-purpose institution. Péter Páva, who is married to the appointed director, commented, directly or indirectly, on the appointed director of the KLIK district of Pécs. The local government could also comment, represented by Mayor Zsolt Páva, who, according to the press, is the brother of Péter Páva KLIK Director. For the mere existence of the governing board referred to in the law, data cannot be found from any source, let alone what decision has been taken in this case. Obviously, I am sure that all appointments are signed by the Minister, but it is not decided on its own, and it relies on the practitioners of powers and the decision-making mechanisms for reasons, but I still believe that public confidence in public institutions in this case is of particular importance, which should be borne in mind by everyone, and that appropriate rules on decision-making and conflicts of interest should be applied in such exceptional cases. It doesn't even provide for it, because the text hasn't been modified yet, even though KLIK has been required by law to do so. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: what conflict of interest rules will be added to the KLIK amendment, and who has commented on the appointment of Zsuzsanna Páváné Kurnik? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-09-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-09-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It will also help to maintain confidence in public institutions if we do not say false things about any procedure here in Parliament, honourable Member, because there was no such thing - I will give you a detailed description here - that someone was given an opinion by their spouse. This is about being a deputy head of the institution for 15 years and then applying for the leadership position of this institution. I think over the past 15 years, there have been quite a variety of leadership in both Pécs and the country, and so far, you have always done your job according to professional expectations and public satisfaction. But let us be chronological about where you have distorted, or where you have said untruths, honourable Member. In 2014 KLIK launched a tender for the management of the Pécs Éltes Mátyás Unified Institute of Methodology, Special Secondary School and College of Medicine. On 24 April 2014, Péter Páva, director of the Pécs district announced his conflict of interest and asked the president of the KLIK to exempt him from the obligation to conduct the tender procedure and to participate in the technical committee in the district district, and to appoint another independent district director for the task, given the fact that his wife, Zsuzsanna Páváné Kurnik, who is now a candidate, also submitted her application. So on April 24th, what you said was the opposite, honourable Member. The procedure went on, the president of the KLIK appointed the head of the KLIK Szekszárd district, director of the study district of Péter Gerzsei on 30 April 2014. The National Public Education Act 68. In compliance with its obligation under § (1) the district director also requested the opinion of the Municipality of the County of Pécs on the application. By decision of 21 October V, the Committee on Education and Culture supported the applicant's higher management mandate; the decision was issued by the chairman of the committee, with the agreement of his member, with the approval of Attila Pavlovics, the head councillor of the municipality. As a result of the tendering procedure, the president of the KLIK, taking into account the opinion of the Technical Committee for the Study District [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] With the support of Zsuzsanna Páváné Kurnik, he forwarded the tender documentation...
u2015-03-09-84	Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-85	... as I say, 15-year-old Deputy Director. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-86	Thank you very much. I respectfully ask you to observe the time we have in the house rules. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: . Earth will not be returned. No, but that there is no compensation... with a title. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2015-03-09-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Due to the legislative changes, the former remaining areas, protected by nature, but not indemnified by the Hungarian state, concern some 2,000 hectares of land, the vast majority of which belonged to the use of the Dráva-Coop Agricultural Cooperative in Barcs. The Agriculture Directorate of the Somogy County Government Office has transferred these properties to the property of the Hungarian State. The body responsible for the conservation management of these protected natural areas is the Directorate of Duna-Drava National Park established under the KTM Decree of 7/1996. So the expropriation and asset management took place, and the residual land was transferred to the National Earth Fund. The problem is not public ownership, as the cooperative and its membership have been waiting for it for 20 years, but theft of it without charge is offensive, since the compensation has not been made until today. What has happened is, in fact, the taking up of state ownership with a unilateral declaration, quasi-free expropriation, i.e. nationalisation, even though the State can acquire property unilaterally only for consideration, since the Fundamental Law is also clear: property can be acquired only exceptionally and in the public interest, in cases and in a manner defined by law, with full, unconditional and immediate compensation. The existing situation is illegal, unconstitutional, because they have caused significant unilateral financial disadvantages to the cooperative and its members. Only almost a thousand families of Barcson, seniors who are poor from humiliating pensions, and young people who are crouching for further education, expect to receive the equivalent of their value for the land owned by the state, i.e. approximately HUF 1.5-2 billion. I'm asking you, are you ready to pay them? Why have you been sweeping off legitimate demands for the fifth year now? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay.
u2015-03-09-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your question, because you are pointing out an important misconception, and I may now have the opportunity, by example, to present to you what the expression "supplier" means. In an expropriation procedure, the fundamental issue is the question of gold crown value. The golden crown will be redeemed by the state. The remaining areas are about how an indemnification is made according to the golden crown demand, but there were more areas for that cooperative. So the golden crown, which shows the value, is reimbursed, but so to speak, remains an area, which is what we call residual areas, which - and so does this law, which you mentioned - are taken over free of charge by the state. It is not because the state wants to do something wrong with the people there free of charge, but because it has reimbursed the value of the land - once again what is given in the golden crown - during the expropriation process. We're talking about this case here, too. By the way, the state paid exactly HUF 102 million 708 thousand in compensation to the area in question. That was 15 years ago. With regard to residual areas, as provided for in the law, they are not for compensation - after they have been converted in the golden crown - but by the power of the law they become the property of the State. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. [[13.10]]
u2015-03-09-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, From 16 February to 16 March, you can apply for the EU programme "The School in Nature." The TÁMOP construction aims to promote the social integration of pupils living in disadvantaged small regions and settlements, building on the potential of local natural conditions, in particular agricultural knowledge. There have been a number of problems with the launch of the programme, to which the experts working in the field have drawn the attention of the LMP. The first is that the tender was published without the invitation to tender being published while it was open. The duration of the tender is unknown and the date of the contract is not known, while the project must be completed by 30 November. It is not possible to carry out meaningful work during this period, to plan, develop, develop, evaluate and introduce the project in 15-20 schools. That would take at least two to three years. In addition, the range of applicants is already problematic. While the expected number of supported proposals is only one or two, budgetary bodies can apply. Who will win all 600 million forints of development resources alone or in a second place? The LMP would be more fortunate if, in the current deficit period, not one or two winners were supported by HUF 600 million, but even dozens of applications were issued from this envelope. In this way, a dynamic process could indeed be launched in the field, which could involve many innovative players in the work. The LMP asks the government to withdraw the application; this can be done before the deadline for submission. Revocation and write out a new one that is truly for the social integration of disadvantaged students through education, not helping one or two lucky winners to benefit from a hundred million-dollar grant again. My question is whether the Minister will consider the former concerns and whether this proposal will be put out again.
u2015-03-09-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-03-09-93	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Any proposal you make, given your commitment to development matters, I'd be happy to consider it. Before I reply, it is important to say that I am not at all satisfied with the institutional system that we will be writing out proposals in 2015 to conclude the 2007-2013 development cycle. This is not a good thing about the country's past development policy operation 2007-2013, that we are still working on what to spend 600 million forints out of 8 000 billion in 15 years. This should have been settled in the last seven years. But if we are to put out proposals, obviously in order to spend the money in the right amount, it is important in the human field that they happen as soon as possible, preferably in the first quarter, supporting the education sector or the health and social sector, where we could all spend more money than is available in the budget. I've had your written question examined. Firstly, a consortial tender is possible, which means that if there are two winners, assuming 15 consortial partners, it means 30 educational institutions. So I can reassure you that not one or two schools will benefit from this, but that 12 to 16 schools will have to apply together on a scale per consortium. We also plan to increase 600 million forints, so summation alone should not be an obstacle. Basically, since all schools are state-owned educational institutions, the submission of applications and access to resources for KLIK should not be a problem. The same applies to ecclesiastical institutions. And if one of the foundation schools has a problem with that, then, of course, my colleagues or colleagues at the Ministry of Human Resources are at their disposal. Foundation schools are not excluded from applying. I've considered your proposal. I cannot agree with you now, because I think it would be much more difficult to withdraw it than to achieve it in the case at hand, hoping that it will serve a good purpose, because it is a proven programme that has worked in previous years. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-94	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Árpád Velez, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources... [[For signal:]] He's not here. Then we'll jump. Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. When will wages and social support be paid? It's an address. Congressman Nándor Gúr, who is always present, you have the floor.
u2015-03-09-95	Thank you very much, Mr President, although we have also indicated that Árpád Velez will not be here.
u2015-03-09-96	Excuse me, yes.
u2015-03-09-97	It's okay. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt. has created quite a lot of dust. insolvency. They seem to be trying to create solutions and sail a little over to other waters, forget this story. In terms of solutions, this story is not so simple. There is still uncertainty as to wages, wages for public workers and payment of aid in relation to municipalities, despite the fact that HUF 245 million of aid was foreseen for 65 municipalities. But also, civilians, associations are in trouble. Let's not talk about businesses, where the resources above HUF 30 million question where and how they develop. Although I might add, Mr Tállai, State Secretary, always says that this is the issue of entrepreneurial risk, but, you know, in this country, every undertaking is legally obliged to open a bank account. The point is, it does not reassure the public that Minister Lazarus is talking about the transfer of a loan of HUF 106 million to the OBA, if I have memorized the number correctly. I wonder how this loan will be returned, how the OBA will return the loan. But really, my fundamental question is whether people will be paid for what is the guarantee, whether this payment will be made in time; if the payment is not made in time, who will stand up to the additional costs that will be incurred in terms of non-time payments; and how do they want to avoid a similar situation in the future - let us say that they will not control me for five years?
u2015-03-09-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thanking you for your concern, I can tell you that the most urgent measures have been taken by the government, the Ministry of National Economy, the State Treasury, the Ministry of Interior and the Post, and, as a result, in respect of public servants, in respect of those who are aided, the monthly allowances for public workers have been paid for February. It happened, because those who didn't run their accounts at the banks concerned were able to get the money directly into their accounts, and in the case of those - more than 6,000 - who had their accounts and were closed at the banks concerned, and they were paid directly by Posta, so the transfer was made to the Posta, and the post offices were open longer or the mailmen took the benefit to the house. So, as far as I know, on Friday, all those involved received the February monthly payment. That was also the government's goal. Indeed, others are also affected: civilians, associations. They could receive compensation from the National Deposit Insurance Fund up to EUR 100,000, and this payment was also made. Indeed, the National Deposit Insurance Fund has received a significant loan, but they have a business plan on how they will be able to reimburse it. It won't affect people. So thank you for your concerned questions. The first and most important measures have been taken by the government. Of course, this will be followed by measures to ensure that people and local authorities escape this vast series of crimes with as little damage as possible. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: how can the government support the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement without real impact studies? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2015-03-09-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Free trade negotiations are ongoing between the European Union and the United States, but unfortunately these negotiations are behind closed doors, and we have not seen any concrete impact assessments by the Hungarian government on how such an agreement would affect Hungary's future. [[13.20]] On 27 October 2014, the Committee on European Affairs held a meeting on the subject, and there, István Mikola, State Secretary, presented some figures, but what impact assessment they are from, he did not do so, but promised to send to the members of the committee the materials available on the subject. The members of the committee expected to receive these impact assessments in vain, so on 19 January 2015 my colleague Tibor Bana and I presented a written question to Péter Szijjártó and asked them to make specific impact assessments available. The reply was shocking, it arrived on 3 February 2015 and referred to an analysis for 2013 but also made it clear, Minister, that no real impact assessments were carried out, as they suggested that this could only be done when the specific agreement was adopted or described. The problem is that these negotiations take place in secret, partly even from the Hungarian government, so we do not know how the Hungarian Government can support this agreement. Moreover, the ban on GMO products seems to fall, and, as we can already see in the brochures, civil society organisations are protesting this agreement. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State whether, without specific impact assessments, they can support this agreement and do not think that the time for blank checks given to the major powers has expired and that Hungary has not yet benefited from such an attitude. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs István Ejmártó.
u2015-03-09-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement has been subject to numerous studies commissioned by the European Commission, the European Parliament and other institutions. All of these are public and available online as well as accessible. In view of the conclusions of the studies, they all agree that a comprehensive agreement, in addition to traditional market access commitments, would benefit the EU, including the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade, and that almost half of the benefits would result from the elimination of the latter. In the context of the studies, it is necessary to note that the figures in it are estimates, which depend on several factors, such as the content of the negotiated agreement and the ability of companies to make use of the benefits they create. An impact assessment for merit information may be carried out in the light of the outline of the substantive commitment of the agreement or in the context of the economic impact of the agreement reached. The analysis for the Hungarian Government also came to the above conclusions. We have taken into account international and domestic impact assessments and analyses, and we are constantly taking into account the attention and opinion of social and economic interest representatives and stakeholders. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Lajos Korózs: Have you heard anything?]] Dear Parliament, The final simple question within the agenda follows. Dóra Dúró, Member of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When is it expected that the teachers can work for a decent wage? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-03-09-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, There is not enough talk in public life about teachers directly, but what is even sadder is that nannys, school secretaries, pedagogical assistants and other workers do not receive the respect they deserve, in either financial or moral terms. From September 2015, the career model will be extended only to those who have a pedagogical education, but this is not the characteristic of the job I mentioned, so they are forgotten again by the government, even though they are working in bulk, even for a minimum wage. Both professional organisations and Jobbik warned that, in addition to settling the wages of teachers, their appreciation was essential, but some of them were even worse with the public reservation of schools: the benefits received from the local government were now not provided by KLIK. Thus, with the State's reservation, they did not create equalisation, but their situation became even more unfair. Their load is outstanding in international comparison, one third of their number is the OECD average, which means that they are doing three times as much work as their colleagues or teachers in other countries are forced to help them, thus taking the time away from teaching. So you can see that the problem is real and urgent, which the government seems to have no response to. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State why they forget about those who directly assist in pedagogical work, when it is expected that they will be able to work for a decent wage. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-09-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, the work of staff working in schools, but not directly doing pedagogical work, is as important, useful, and valuable as that of teachers working there. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In kindergartens too!]] Obviously, the government has sought to offer a vision to teachers working in the pedagogical profession for the first time in the teaching career, and, as you said, from 1 September this year, this kind of career is also extended to those with a teacher's degree, but not a teacher's work, so their life opportunities will also become somewhat easier. At the same time, it is very important to say that when the government talks about a teacher's wage increase, it is only a part of the career that a teacher can obviously do, since he has training, higher quality work, quality improvement of teaching-educational work clearly and clearly expected of him, while those who help this job, whether they have other qualifications, and perform other activities at school [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: They won't help! It wouldn't work without them!]] They are not directly concerned with teaching children, they are not able to serve directly to improve the studies of the children there, but they are obviously only indirectly, but as a very important part. It is important to say that when the teaching career began in 2013, we were able to pay teachers an extra fee of more than HUF 30 billion that year. [[Dóra Dúró: That's not what I asked! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The technical staff should be discussed!]] Last year, we spent 120 billion forints more on raising the wages of teachers working in schools, and this year, 38 billion forints are also included in the teacher's wage increase. [[Dóra Dúró: Answer the question, please.]] These are added to the previous year, and this year helpers can join the careers of teachers. We hope that, if we have managed to increase the prestige and prestige of teachers with this quite high, 30-40 percent wage increase or in some cases 50 percent wage increase, then, as social workers, law enforcement workers and others will increase their wages, we can also offer these people even higher wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Serbian nationalism advocate Alexov Lyubomir wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Do you have a future for ethnic acting in Hungary? It's an address. Mr Alexov Lyubomir is a national speaker.
u2015-03-09-109	[[No microphones.]] Dear House,
u2015-03-09-110	Just a moment, please. A microphone... or the card should have been inserted into its place. But we'll give you a microphone; we'll listen.
u2015-03-09-111	[[It's a portable microphone.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Is there a future for ethnic acting in Hungary? XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. The Act sets out provisions for the promotion of the artistic life of nationalities in Hungary and for the enforcement of cultural rights. However, during the change in the funding model for theatres, support for ethnic theatres in Hungary has decreased dramatically in recent years. [[13.30]] For example, the Hungarian Serbian Theatre's state support in 2009 was HUF 38 million, in 2013 the budget paid HUF 22 million to the theater organization. This represents a reduction of 43 per cent of the aid. At the same time as the number of national theatres increased and the reduction in the envelope, the amount of support for each theatre continued to fall, but there was no welcome withdrawal for national and priority theatres. In addition to funding problems, ethnic theatres face the following problems: every year, the application of ethnic theatres to professional prizes is rejected. The lack of recognition represents an important loss of motivation among ethnic creators. Arcusfest was the national festival of ethnic theatres. With reference to a lack of resources, it has not been organised in the last five years, thus eliminating the possibility of introducing the majority of national theatres. The NKA College of Theatre and Dance rejects national applications every year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There is no state-organised ethnic education in Hungary among theatre professionals, so we kindly ask that, in the tendering period, they help not to disappear because of a lack of resources, and that the centuries-old tradition should not be destroyed, which, for example, allowed us to do so. [[The president's ringing again.]] , that last year we celebrated the 200-year anniversary of Serbian acting at the National Theatre, where...
u2015-03-09-112	Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-113	Yeah, I'm sorry... Lack of practice.
u2015-03-09-114	You have two minutes. Thank you very much for speaking with the Serbian ethnic advocate. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-09-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Speaker, Dear House, I'll pick up where you left off. Indeed, in December 2013, we celebrated together the 200-year anniversary of Serbian acting in Pest, the Wonder in the Rondela, and I believe that you and I both saw it there. It was the first piece of my life in Serbian that I listened to, but it showed me a very good picture of the beginning of Serbian acting and the identity issues there; I think many Central European peoples are linked by similar questions and processes. National theatres occupy a special place within the performing arts area, including in operational applications for performing arts organisations. The EMMI defines the ethnic theatres in Hungary as an independent, separate group of candidates, in order to make the decision-makers and critics of the competition according to their social role, and not only by forcing them to compete with other theatres, professional performance should be the only thing they decide on. This positive discrimination is due to the fact that the national theatres are ranked among themselves as the same special public service bodies, not exclusively on the basis of the professional aspects of the tender, with other competing performers and performers. For these applicants, XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing art organisations. under the law, ethnicity applications appear among non-qualified theater and dance performing arts organisations as closed candidates groups, as a stand-alone application subject. As regards the tender support for the Serbian theatre, the change in the comparison between 2009 and 2013 was in line with the budgetary envelopes. Other topics raised in the questions of the speaker, such as the professional awards in theatre, support for the festival, support for the College of the NKA Theatre and Dance Arts, are all issues that concern all participants in Hungarian theatre life, but, of course, it will be important for us to continue to support these areas with special priority and positive discrimination. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Closed his eyes or mask? It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Ádám Balog to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-03-09-117	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-03-09-118	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Belling.
u2015-03-09-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, 82 municipalities and over 100,000 families - mostly small-money families and small-money municipalities - lost their money from the DRB bank, a bank that was a savings cooperative a year or a half ago, was known as a reliable, good bank in Somogy County. In addition to your midwives, with your permission, after your inspection, this bank was born, and you gave me permission to set up this bank from the savings company. They created a bank with a ownership background that you had to know about, because they examined: On 17 September 2010, your predecessor, Károly Szász, signed a decision in which the owners condemned the operation of Buda-Cash, in which they described no minor violations than breaching the law on the admission of orders, violating the law on the registration system, the capital required for risk cover not available in accordance with the law, reporting is not correct, the employees' own transactions are washed with customers' transactions, they do not comply with the legal requirements of the anti-money laundering law, they have outsourced a lot of things that did not comply with the legal requirements, the IT system did not comply with the legal requirements, the home and the customer's bank was not separate. One by one, these are things that could have caused this group to be suspended. On the other hand, they were not suspended, but a decision was taken to report quarterly on how these shortcomings would be corrected. I'd like to ask what happened to these quarterly reports. Did you know what was going on in the bank - since you assisted these quarterly reports - or did you not carry out these quarterly audits? Please answer me.
u2015-03-09-120	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Vice President Ádám Balog.
u2015-03-09-121	Mr President, Honourable Members, First of all, I would like to clarify the misunderstanding that small-money households would be in trouble, because the OBA provides a sufficient guarantee that no one who held smaller money in this banking group - and that small money goes up to HUF 30 million - will be harmed. A few days' waiting will, of course, prevent this, which is not pleasant, but it is not as bad as the Member has indicated. The fact that the banks may have been abused because we gave the bank permission to do something else that they've done so far, I refuse to do that. Unfortunately, these institutions had the same ownership circle in their savings cooperative time as after authorisation, and unfortunately these abuses were already ongoing and ongoing. Our screening, which preceded the authorisation, could only be a formal investigation, which we have already explained in our communication, exactly what it means. We had to look at capital requirements and look at how they worked. As you mentioned, these savings cooperatives and then banks had good internal mechanisms. Unfortunately, the fact that the financial team behind them is likely to commit a crime, unfortunately, we have not been able to investigate it. Of course, we knew about the PSZEF study, as we also work on it to investigate past actions of PSZEF. The comments made by PSZF were settled; the bank and the Buda-Cash behind it did not show the symptoms that PSZF had discovered at the time. Unfortunately, this is precisely the sign that the regulatory control system is not entirely adequate, because they have been able to cheat, to abuse confidence in the financial system, so that it cannot be assessed or found by the legislative or control framework now available. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-122	Thank you very much. A rejoinder will be given to Congressman Bellozó.
u2015-03-09-123	Mr. Vice President, You claimed that there had been such abuse before, during the savings cooperative period. So they gave you permission to turn into a bank by knowing there was such abuse? Or have these savings cooperatives not been properly examined and yet the permits have been issued? These frauds were done by laundering customers' money with their own investments, and the IT system, which was already described in 2010, did not work properly and had to be corrected. [[13.40]] Later, during the quarterly inspections, you thought that this had already been corrected, so either you are incompetent to conduct these checks, or you have unfairly assisted to exchange the money of these small-money people and municipalities. Because it's not the answer that the OBA will pay for it! So you can steal the money because you'll be paid out of public money? No! You must resign your boss, Matolcsy, because you have assisted in this depravity and are unfit to perform this task.
u2015-03-09-124	Thank you. The vice-president shall also have the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-09-125	Honourable Congressman, By throwing words all over the place and making you feel like you're telling the truth, I can't help it. Again, of course we didn't know. If we had known, we wouldn't have allowed this bank to turn into a bank. And what the legislative environment is giving us and what we can examine on this basis is a question that needs to be changed. I reject that you assume that we are not doing everything we can to build confidence in the Hungarian financial system. We have been working for 15 months to explore the Fortress case, to examine the small taksövök, which may not have worked well, to apply to the banks measures that have never been seen in the Hungarian financial system, and to apply fines that have not even been imposed a fraction of them before. We've been trying to clean the system for 15 months. We just got to the point where we could do that. For the record, we checked this company with an absolute surprise. [[Lajos Korózs: You can't do it, you have to cancel!]] in absolute time and extremely quickly, in virtually days, we have discovered abuses that others have not revealed in long, long years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-09-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we govern in a credible way? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-03-09-127	I wish I was genuinely interested in the Minister's opinion, but given the gravity of the case, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-09-128	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Everyone is worth that? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin said yes.]] Congresswoman says yes. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, a notary, is the subject.
u2015-03-09-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Due to the bankruptcy of banks belonging to the Buda-Cash Broker house, 136 municipal and ethnic authorities are unable to obtain their money, i.e. they currently have losses of about HUF 3-4 billion. They are in this impossible situation without their own faults, as are the institutions associated with them, which would perform educational, cultural, public education, urban management, social, e.g. children's meals. Please allow me to briefly describe some of the life situations that some brokers in Pest are irresponsible in the countryside, and, I add, the weakness of the supervisory system. In the village of Told, a Community garden scheme could have been implemented to create 20 new jobs if they had been able to use the funding for this by 15 March. Unfortunately, this project seems to be lost. In Nagybajom, the network investment would have been financed from an EU project, which was covered by the population, i.e. about a thousand households lost the funds they paid. But not only municipalities, but also other public service providers and foundations are involved in this matter. For example, the existence of a school maintained by the Berettyóújfalu Real Pearl Foundation is being questioned. We know that according to the relevant law, the insurance provided by the OBA does not cover the deposits of the municipalities, so they could only rely on State aid. The injured municipalities have been fighting for their survival for weeks, but the government only provides them HUF 245 million to cover 6 percent of the damage. Only Bodrogkeresztúr settlement lost more in this bank. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] Secretary of State, please respond to when the municipalities will finally receive full compensation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] organisations carrying out public tasks. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-09-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, On my count, this is the fourth question today in Parliament. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, among them: There will be more! Even the next one!]] which concerns when the municipalities will be compensated for their stuck money. So I can only give you a repeated answer. [[István Gábor Bellozó: If there was an answer! Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I can give you a repeat answer. The Socialist Member better listen, because I've already told them twice. So the most urgent measure has been taken by the government, and it is that people receive their February allowance. They get paid by civil servants, civil servants and relief workers, they get the family allowance. This happened. Check me out, in your district, if you have any, ask people. Until Friday of the last week, every person involved, and through the municipality, was entitled to the payment. It took a lot of work to do this because the Treasury employees worked until 8:00 p.m., and the Post Office kept an extraordinary opening. So, I think what could have been done in this situation was done by the government, by its competent bodies and by the ministries. The next step is to assess the damage. Because examples can be given, but overall, how large and to what extent this affects those affected, they will also be able to assess and find out. After all, the liquidation started days ago, and the liquidator is about to mail them exactly how much money they have in the bank. In their settlements, they will also assess, ask who really has a problem: water utility companies, foundations, sports associations, civil society organisations, churches. So the next step that happens now is to assess the extent of the damage, how it affects the local government and its organisations in the given settlement. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-09-132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-03-09-133	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you have told me what the municipalities have received during this period of about two weeks, and how much work this has involved. And I'll tell you what the Fidesz friends got when Széchenyi Bank went bankrupt. You practically made it up to them immediately. I'll tell you this: four people received hundreds of millions of forints, four individuals with fidesz just because they had a good relationship with you. Let's name them, okay, brother-in-law, mate, we're talking about these four people, and they're already getting more with the only financial decision the government's made. 6 billion HUF has been transferred from the budget so that they do not misbehave, as opposed to these local governments, whose shameful and facial toasting means that the government can only help to deliver 6 percent of their losses; probably as a refundable loan as well. Shame! Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2015-03-09-134	Thank you, Congresswoman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-09-135	I find it regrettable that you and your party are also using the fate of governments and people in a very difficult situation to gain political benefits. [[An uproar from the opposition's benches.]] The government doesn't, because the government, no matter how much the Jobbik fraction screams behind me... [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Poor fidesz buddies, right?]] Don't ask questions if you don't care about the answer. [[Noise. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: But I'm interested, just answer. I'm interested in the answer.]] So the government is doing its job. It will assess whether the ebr42 system has provided each of the municipalities with a data sheet on which to fill out the actual problems. The deadline expired at noon today. [[It's a lot of noise. Dr. Attila Tilki: You don't even know what it is! The president's ringing the bell.]] You can demand anything outside the law here, by the way, the first step is to assess what it is. After assessing the extent of the damage, the government itself will decide on the issues affecting the municipalities and other matters, compensation and extraordinary support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-09-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: Why does the government favor only the billionaires? It's an address. [[Constant noise from Jobbik's benches. It's ringing.]] Dear Jobbik Group, if you think we can hold... [[István Apáti speaks to the Fidesz MEPs sitting opposite him.]] Dear Jobbik Group, if you think we can hold [[It's constant noise.]] A short, tranquilizer break, if you will. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: The drug is gone!]] [[13.50]] Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: Why does the government favor only the billionaires? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-03-09-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, it has been said several times today that a mass of abuses and crimes have bankrupted the Buda-Cash Broker house, but the same can be said of the Széchenyi Bank, which is 51 percent owned by István Töröcskei, the Bank of Széchenyi, which was pumped by state billions shortly before its bankruptcy. For depositors, it is certainly fortunate that, in the event of bankruptcy of financial institutions, the National Deposit Insurance Fund will indemnify depositors to a uniform amount of EUR 100,000, although today we have also heard that the OBA is empty. However, it should also be noted that there are also exceptions to the level of compensation, which is presumed to be close to Fidesz. While in December last year the government compensated the billionaire clients of Széchenyi Bank serving as a Fidesz paying position with extra speed and almost no restrictions, Buda-Cash's small deposit, non-profit and municipal customers are far from receiving that attention and support. While the damage of the 67 municipalities affected by the Buda-Cash scandal exceeds HUF 3 billion, the Prime Minister and Mihály Varga awarded an extraordinary grant of HUF 245 million. They were told to wait for the rest. Compared to this, the government made an exception to the billionaire clients of Széchenyi Bank serving as a Fidesz paying position. Out of the taxpayers' money, in particular the public sector's wage compensation framework, Széchenyi Bank's rich customers whose money was placed at the bank exceeded the amount guaranteed by the National Deposit Insurance Fund by HUF 6 billion. Thus, the lucky ones - only four individuals - could obtain hundreds of millions of forints per person instead of compensations of HUF 30 million. I would like to know who those billionaire individuals are; we would like to know how long to wait for the full compensation of the municipalities affected by the Buda-Cash scandal; and whether the government is thinking about the public interest affected by the Buda-Cash scandal. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] full compensation for non-profit organisations. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-09-138	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] The congresswoman has already tried to ask this question in the last parliamentary period... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: He didn't just try, he did!]] Then you didn't know. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I can tell you that... you will help me, Mr. President, because...
u2015-03-09-140	I can't help you with the answer. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-03-09-141	... the yellings are interfering with my response. I think that the time has come for Hungary to be able to transform the financial system and the banking system, because it is a great thing that the Hungarian National Bank will help the economy with the growth loan programme, but we all know that this can only be a temporary help. The Hungarian National Bank cannot take over the role and tasks of commercial banks. The Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, says that in the context of the transformation, it is necessary to make a temporary sacrifice to invest capital in banks and to acquire state property, to buy state property. This is necessary in order to create a healthy commercial banking system in Hungary, start real lending, start the task of the banks. And within this framework, 49 percent of Széchenyi Bank's ownership was purchased. The government had a strong idea of what tasks Széchenyi Bank would be able to perform through the banking system. Unfortunately, this did not work, because the Hungarian National Bank scanned the bank and found that there were abuses and that the bank was essentially inoperative. However, the Hungarian State should also be responsible for its ownership responsibility in this situation. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Four names, please. Four seconds!]] to take care of The consequence of this is what you have said; and I would like to continue to respond in one minute. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2015-03-09-143	Thank you very much. We're getting used to never getting an answer to any of our questions, and they're always wrong. In addition, they are not only misconceptions, but we find that they are also misrepresenting. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] Once they say banks are being nationalized, banks are buying shares, public funds are being invested, and then they're going to be privateized in three years. It is also a matter of public money for Széchenyi Bank. How can you think that, beyond the legal framework, billions will be spent on the further enrichment of some people? ! The answer is not acceptable and we want to know who the four people are. Thank you.
u2015-03-09-144	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-145	Thank you, Mr. President. So the owner [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks:]] responsibility, I think, extends to the state. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] At a time when the State participates in the compensation up to a percentage of its ownership, it is true that this is not required by any law, but I think that the ownership of the State applies to it as well as it does, it would also apply to the owners of the Buda-Cash Broker house, because they will also have to answer to their private assets if they have caused damage. I believe that public engagement and ownership must continue to be able to expand, and this has led the government and the state to decide to participate as owners. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Four names, please.]] indemnification of these victims. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tuzson, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] a hundred billion-dollar socialist brokerage scandal. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Mr. Tallai, can you hold on? Can you hold on? We're worried! Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask the Member whether he accepts the appointed Secretary of State, András Tállai, as a replyer. [[Tuzson Bence: Yes, thank you.]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Replacements for the Secretary of State!]]
u2015-03-09-147	Dear Parliament, Again on the Buda-Cash case, I think a lot of people are laughing at this question, but that's what it's all about. [[We're laughing at you, Bence.]] That's a hundred billion forints [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] He's gone on this case. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: How did it happen, Bence?]] And that's why a lot of people in these banks have kept their money in their savings. Fortunately, the National Deposit Insurance Fund stands up for these amounts, but it's always important to look beyond the cases. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] And we're going to see what reasons this scandal could have led to. Let us not forget that, in 2004, during the socialist governance, there was a legislative amendment, which ended the two-year obligation to control, and subsequently, in 2009, a five-year audit obligation was introduced. Then, in 2010, there was an audit, an audit that started after the parliamentary elections. [[Gábor István bellozó: And it ended at the end of a beautiful man! Don't lie to me. Don't lie to me, Bence. The president's ringing the bell.]] but it has been completed - the on-the-spot check - before the Fidesz government was established, and at no other time than the day before the Fidesz government was established. Nevertheless, personal mergers are also very interesting, since the chairman of the Supervisory Board was the government commissioner of the Bajnai government, who was responsible for the fact that this case could have been brought forward at all. [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] So let's ask, on this basis, how is it possible that the 2010 investigation didn't reveal anything? [[Gábor István Bellozó: What nothing?]] How was it possible that in 2010, at this very time, an investigation was carried out and how was it possible that the chairman of the Supervisory Board knew nothing, or if he knew anything, whether Gordon Bajnai knew about it or what the chairman of the Supervisory Board knew about it. It is a hundred billion forints, and the most important question is where this money is. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Ask! György Szilágyi: This was political gain, Mr. Secretary of State.]]
u2015-03-09-148	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai. [[14.00]]
u2015-03-09-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, these questions will be answered by a committee of inquiry announced today by the Group leader that the Fidesz faction will initiate it and will establish it in Parliament. What we know is very interesting when we put it together. We know that the leaders of Buda-Cash passed through the Bajnai and Gyurcsány government: either they went from the government to Buda-Cash to do some work, or they went from Buda-Cash to the government. So it was a clear passage, and you can't deny it. It is also quite clear that in the light of the April elections, so that the Fidesz-KDNP government and the parliamentary majority will once again be in Hungary, the investigation was ordered. The on-site inspection lasted an oddly short period of time, less than two weeks. Obviously, its signature and its subscription by the President have taken longer. It is very interesting that only minor shortcomings have been identified by this inspection. I would add that he imposed a fine of 3 million and a quarterly reporting obligation, which turned out to be a fraud and a forgery every time. One thing is certain that the inspection at that time did not stop the operation of the Buda-Cash Broker house, but allowed it to pass on, in the hope that the next check and inspection under the five-year rule will take place after the 2014 election, and who knows what kind of government it will then be, it may be favorable to him. The threads clearly lead to the former socialist government, its people, in the case of a hundred billion-dollar deficit and money disposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Tuzson Bence has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-03-09-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The most important question really is that we find this 100 billion forint, and then we can go to where the money went and see who was responsible for it. Who, by clicking the button, may have contributed to the creation of a five-year audit obligation instead of a two-year audit obligation, and who were in charge of finding nothing in the 2010 investigation? We're talking about a lot of people, we're talking about a lot of people's money, and we're talking about the National Deposit Insurance Fund. But we can't settle for that, we need to clarify all the questions in every investigation, and we also need to clarify in criminal proceedings who were responsible for the reasons why we have come this far. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-152	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-03-09-153	Thank you very much. Continuing the story, the five years have passed, and the time has come for the Hungarian National Bank, now merged with the PSZEF, to begin the investigation at this financial institution, financial enterprise. And that, no, it all came out on the first day, because the bank's managers or owners, seeing that they were facing a different type of control, and that the auditors immediately pointed out the shortcomings, they basically acknowledged that there were problems in the financial business, and that it really accelerated the fact-finding. We agree with the Member and the Fidesz fraction that those responsible must be found, those responsible must be accountable, those responsible must account for the 100 billion either in one way or in another, and if there is punishment for that, they must receive it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-09-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Attorney General's Office an immediate question: will there be an inquiry about the spending of the National Roma Municipality? It's an address. As a result of his urgent public service mission, the Attorney General has appointed Mr. István Lajtár Deputy Attorney General to answer. I ask Mr Teleki if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Teleki.
u2015-03-09-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, Dear Parliament, On several occasions, opposition groups in Parliament have spoken separately about what happened to the spending of the National Roma Municipality, and not only within Parliament, but also outside the walls of Parliament, whether there was a legitimate spending on this issue at the National Roma Municipality or not. Several times we listed items that shuddered the moods, including the purchase of office furniture, and the amount of car rentals that were 500 thousand forints per month for Opel cars, and the amount of computer purchases was equally unrealistic, as we could see in the press. The question was also whether it was an office purchase or an office rental from the source they bought in Buda. So we asked the government, in order and in order, what happened to those resources, but we never got a proper answer. That is why we thought it would be important to adapt to the values of the Hungarian Socialist Party, so that we can see clearly in this picture, which means the items affecting the budget. Therefore, my question to the Deputy Attorney General is whether you would like to open an investigation in this case, to open an investigation, because this could solve a lot of things if you wished to address this issue with sufficient weight. We don't want to declare those responsible. Only one thing is certain: unless an investigation is initiated, it will continue to create a strained situation between social organisations and cause further tension in society. It is therefore necessary to examine whether a payment has actually been made in this case, a spending which is not regular. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-156	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár.
u2015-03-09-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On 30 January 2015, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office was reported in connection with the criminal offence and other criminal offences of the National Local Government of Roma, a bridge to the world of work - social affairs. According to the complaint, the HUF 5 billion budget of the project was subject to significant over-pricing compared to the market price and purchases other than the target of the tender. On 24 February 2015, the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office dismissed the complaint in respect of the offence of misdemeanor abuse in the absence of a criminal offence, while on grounds of suspicion of fiscal fraud, it ordered that the complaint be supplemented. The addition to the complaint will be continued by the Central Investigation Department of the National Tax and Customs Office Directorate-General for Crime. This deadline shall be 11 March 2015. I would also like to inform the Member that the prosecution has not received a public interest defence application or a complaint against the operation of the National Roma Municipality and seeking legal control. However, in this context, I consider it necessary to note that the legal provisions in force do not give the prosecutor's authority to verify the legality of national minority authorities, and therefore the legality control of the National Roma Municipality is also outside the public interest protection powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-158	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Teleki.
u2015-03-09-159	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think the Deputy Attorney General has said that he has withdrawn or will not open an investigation, if I understand correctly, so this charge has been dropped. [[Intercoms.]] But the public continues to ask whether the social tension that seems to be in order in the country can be prevented or prevented from doing so. What I see is that there's a lot more to be done. Of course, I'm not saying that heads should fall, but the only thing I'm sure is that if there were to be such a kind of money-spend as people and the media have seen, we would have expected a more thorough investigation, and much more forward-looking, to reassure the public. It is therefore very difficult for me to accept it, and I hope that the public will not handle it in such a way that it is indeed closed. I would like to ask the Deputy Attorney General again to examine whether this question is indeed closed on your part. Thank you.
u2015-03-09-160	Thank you very much, Congressman Teleki. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Deputy Attorney General. [[14.10]]
u2015-03-09-161	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The Criminal Procedure Act provides that criminal proceedings may be prosecuted only after suspicion of a criminal offence. A condition for ordering an investigation is that the data reported in the complaint be suspected of a criminal offence and that there should be no other legal obstacle to the initiation of an investigation. As I mentioned, the Metropolitan Attorney General has refused to prosecute the crime of misdemeanor abuse, while he has ordered the prosecution to complete the complaint on suspicion of fiscal fraud. As a result of the addition of the complaint, it will be possible to take a well-founded position in order to order the investigation or reject the complaint. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-162	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The Orbán-Gyurcsány coalition will come together at the whistle of the United States? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-03-09-163	I'll take it. Thank you.
u2015-03-09-164	Then you have the floor, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2015-03-09-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, With regard to military action against the Islamic State, Jobbik's position has been known from the outset. We condemn the aggression against Christians and peaceful Muslims, but until we see the background of ISIS and the role of the West, its responsibility for the establishment of the Islamic State, we cannot support any military action. We can only support humanitarian aid on this issue. In view of the fact that we believe that Hungary is not prepared to deal with possible and potential terrorist threats and to deal with immigration and migration caused by the aggression of ISIS, we cannot support the government on this issue. Unlike Jobbik's position, government communication has been tragic, untraceable and quite chaotic. After two weeks ago, Minister Péter Szijjártó spoke in support of the fight against the Islamic State, a week later, after consulting the factions, Mr.Antal Rogán, leader of the Group, had already given a negative statement, and then a few days later, when he came from the United States of America, a kind of order to send troops against the Islamic State, then again the government danced back, and now he's just acting supportively again. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Minister Péter Szijjártó also stress the importance and urgency of the two thirds of them. In response, the Democratic Coalition, the Supportive Response of the Together and the Liberals and, of course, the MSZP. The question arises as to whether or not the Orbán-Gyurcsány coalition is put together at the pressure of the US, and what conclusions can we draw on Hungary's sovereignty in this case. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende.
u2015-03-09-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, let's start with the essence of it. The foreign policy of the Hungarian government is determined by the Hungarian national interest. Alone and exclusively. A very important issue for the Hungarian national interests is that our exports to Iraq are close to $50 million a year. More importantly, MOL Hungarian oil company is settling in for a 25-year production period in this region - the area of Kurdish autonomy in the north-east of Iraq, Kurdistan - where it obtained oil and gas research concessions. To date, according to our records, he invested some $800 million in extracting these minerals. Since 2013 our country's embassy has been in Baghdad, and since 2014 it has been its Consulate General in the centre of the Kurdish region, Erbíl, and we also have a Hungarian foreign trade office in Baghdad. The coalition against the Islamic State was undoubtedly created and brought to life by the United States, but more than 60 countries from the world, including a large number of Arab countries, have also been members and have made various contributions to the future. The Hungarian offer, for which there is no Ukaz, but an invitation from the United States, is aimed at guarding camp and training staff in a relatively peaceful area. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'll pick it up later, thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-09-168	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Gyöngyösi has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-03-09-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We've been getting used to the fact that, in the last few years, rhetoric and actions are very different. We have listened to speeches about freedom, sovereignty, independence, but when it comes to regaining and maintaining our sovereignty, you keep telling us these aspirations in action. We have become accustomed to the fact that, over the last 25 years, socialist, liberal and Fidesz governments have been switching, but when the interests of the United States of America dictate that you send Hungarian soldiers to Afghanistan, Somalia, Mali, to various countries to fight for foreign interests there. We reject this kind of behavior. We say that Hungary is not allowed to take part in military actions of this kind. Foreign interests also exist in relation to ISIS and the Islamic State, as this terrorist organisation was created by the United States itself when it destabilized the region and supported such terrorist organisations with military support, money and media propaganda. I can't accept your answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-03-09-171	Honourable Congressman, I was trying to point out in my answer that it is not a question of foreign interests, but of Hungarian national interests, which are part of the fact that we have to fulfil our commitments in our federal system, the obligations which the Hungarian people confirmed by 85 percent majority of votes in the referendum when we joined NATO. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We didn't do that.]] As to what this Islamic State is like, which is a little misleading Islam, because Islam has nothing to do with the inhumanity, destruction, cruelty that they have done. It may be enough to recall the Libyan terrorist action of 15 February when 21 construction workers, who were Egyptian Coptic Christians, were beheaded on the beach. Maybe you saw the video of that. Our country, along with the rest of the educated world and its characters, is deeply outraged at such acts and is doing so in the best way possible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2015-03-09-172	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the amount of unpaid hours in health care? It's an address. The Minister asked for a reply from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[For signal:]] I see you're signaling your acceptance. You have the floor, Congressman István Ikotity.
u2015-03-09-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, RTL Klub's program "Out of House" recently reported a case of a nurse who works for humiliatingly low wages and an amazing burden in a hospital in Budapest. In the report, the director refuted the nurse's words, claiming that nurses would receive their wages for every hour they worked. The truth quickly came out by comparing payment papers with overtime records, of course the nurse was right. The case is a good indicator of the state of health. Nurses working with premature babies work 200 hours a month, 12 hours a day for 143,000 HUF net. They don't even pay for some of the 200 hours they've worked, they slip it, they give you a day off instead of money when there's not enough work. But the day off is not a real rest either, because they must be on call and, if necessary, be available within an hour. They take enormous responsibility for the incredibly low wage, providing 10-12 newborns with 12 hours of working time, constant tension and exhaustion instead of the approved 6th. [[14.20]] There's a huge shortage of skilled nurses who can go abroad. The prestige of nursing work is not only low in material merits, nor is it recognised that the work done by nurses is without payment, as the report showed. For years, the government has been idly watching healthcare collapse, the emigration of skilled workers, a situation threatening human disaster. My question to the Secretary of State: is the government aware of how much money healthcare owes workers? How much is the national salary that should be spent on unpaid overtime? What steps are being taken to ensure that workers receive their rightful benefits? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Sallai R. Benedek applaud.]]
u2015-03-09-174	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-03-09-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Under-financing and additional funding of health care in Hungary is a subject not only for the past four years, but also for the past decades, and everywhere else, if you listened to any parliament, this question would always be raised. This is especially true in Hungary, because these nurses you said - but we could talk about doctors and others - are really doing superhuman work, and they really are very behind on the wages they get. If you look at the KSH data, you can see from the fact that, yes, there is a great need for wage development here. We have tried to do what we can in the past four years, so we will give this 95,000 employees an extra HUF 76 billion - this means a 27 percent average wage increase - but this does not mean that we would have finished anything with this, but we just started. In the same way, this HUF 10 billion spent on training nurses from EU sources is also the start of something, but not the end. There was a need for new resources in health care, with huge amounts of money being spent on health care in other countries, but not enough in many other places. That's why we introduced a public health product tax or a chip tax to get in a new source that is trying to get people to stop at the same time with the higher price that is harmful to health and, in addition, to provide an additional source of health care, which we all use for health wage development. In addition, you know that there are hundreds of places, hundreds of billions of forints of healthcare development in the country, or, for example, the re-purchase of ambulances, which has suffered some delays over the last decade, since the Socialists have not acquired ambulances in their last two years. So we have such a task in many areas. We have said that, for example, you can pay these overtime fees, pay the supplier's debts that you owe. At the beginning of last year, we spent HUF 1.5 billion, HUF 1 billion in the middle of the year, HUF 6 billion in December and January, and we are still trying to continue. I'll be back in a minute. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a one-minute rejoinder, from the interrogation pair, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-03-09-177	Secretary of State, I don't know how else you can look people in the eye, a member of a government where they spend money on prestige investments. There are stadiums, Paks, Prime Minister, moving to the Castle, institutionalized corruption taking place in the country [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]] "Employment poverty in the heavens, there is a situation - just to give you an example - that 12 premature babies are cared for by a nurse; this is on the other side. After two days of nursing work, people are on call, and they're responsible for everything. There aren't enough nurses, because there's not enough pay, and these people are leaving. I am talking about the fact that there are nurses in this country who, besides small newborn children, are serving with babies in inhumane conditions. What I'm asking you is when you're gonna pay these people back. Where's that money in the Ministry that you're gonna pay for these money? These are legitimately requested money, and these people are working for it. I would also like to know what they are doing to make sure that there are no such unblessed circumstances, so that, besides small babies, people do not work in these conditions from vision to blindness. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] No wonder there are accidents in hospitals under these circumstances, the conditions are terrible. You represent a government where there is money for prestige investments. Then tell me when these nurses are going to pay their wages. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-03-09-178	Thank you. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-09-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I represent a government that has finally not withdrawn resources from health care [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Instead, it sought to open new sources for health care, such as chips tax, which has never been a source of health, because, yes, the salaries of these people must be increased. There was a period a few years before that when the 13th month's wages were taken away from these people. We tried to give something back with this 27 percent average wage increase, something to increase this prestige. As for the difficult financial situation of hospitals, you know very well that about HUF 60 billion is the amount of debt that has been rolled before you for years or even decades, which hospitals accumulate before themselves year after year, and for the debt settlement of the public administration agencies, within the Prime Minister's chapter as a central government organization, there is HUF 60 billion. We strive this year for hospitals that pay their debts, hospitals that really try to pay everyone a fairer wage... - because those you talk about deserve much higher wages and much better working conditions; well, how can you transform the management of hospitals so that these wages are guaranteed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And out of this 60 billion forints, you can count on the government's support. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Where is the tobacco? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr.István Nagy State Secretary to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew nods.]] It says yes. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2015-03-09-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As Mr. Speaker said, the title of my immediate question is "Where is the tobacco?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's And indeed, although the question may be rhetorical, where is the tobacco? You know that tobacco growers should have done the planting already at the beginning of March, and the tobacco plant should be in the foils, but this is not the case. Tobacco growers in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County - there are quite a lot of people, by the way, about 80 percent of the tobacco produced in the country is produced in Szabolcs - well, these tobacco growers have been left uncertain by the government as a result of a swing policy. In recent weeks, we have met several tobacco growers, speaking personally and over the phone, and we have been confronted with the fact that they do not still know whether they are receiving subsidies, so-called additional subsidies for domestic tobacco producers, tobacco growers, because we know very well that this was a European Union grant, which they had, unfortunately, ceased this year. We would like to ask the government that if we do not support tobacco producers from European Union sources, then at least from Hungarian national sources, because I think that is not a big secret, and you are also in the business - if I may say so - that this only affects about 25,000 people in one of the most disadvantaged counties in the country. They give jobs to about 25,000 people - between 25 and 30 thousand people - not just seasonal work, not only temporarily, but almost all year round, those tobacco growers who are in uncertainty today and who do not know if they are now receiving support for this year. Well, time is running out, because, as I said, technically, the work should have started. Of course, these farmers, farmers, are wanted by people who work for them, to tell them whether they will get a job then and whether they will produce tobacco. And today, they don't see clearly. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State where tobacco is, what is the situation with the support of tobacco producers. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-182	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-03-09-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, As a son of a tobacco-producing family, allow me to assure you that neither the agricultural portfolio nor the government has forgotten about tobacco growers or the situation in the sector. Given that the tobacco restructuring aid applied from 2010 cannot, unfortunately, be continued as a result of the decision of the European Union, the Ministry has long agreed with the operators in the sector on possible aid, to which only national resources can then be used. The European Union has taken into account purely health aspects when it is completely excluded from EU funding for tobacco production. Here in Hungary, however, it is clear that by providing support, nearly 20,000 employees can be employed in the labour processes related to tobacco production, especially in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg and Bács-Kiskun counties, which are in a less favourable position than the national average. The sector is the most dependent on aid in all our agricultural sectors, and therefore all the titles of support which are not prohibited by Community law and which can be used for the sector have been carefully examined. We also looked at the cost and income structure of the sector, discussed with the players in the sector, and concluded that the elimination of the aid is also affecting the loss of tobacco production in Hungary and the livelihood of thousands of rural people. To avoid this, we see an opportunity to set up a national source of about HUF 5 billion per year. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of National Economy are working together to generate the necessary resources for this. To ensure this source, the government's decision is necessary, and we hope that the issue will be discussed at the government meeting as soon as possible. The appropriate support may then be paid by the Agriculture and Rural Development Office on a number of items and instalments. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[14.30]]
u2015-03-09-184	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. [[To Dr. Zsolt Crew:]] You have the word in a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-03-09-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am very confident that this solution, how shall I put it, will indeed be passed through. So far, we have heard about 7 billion, which has been granted annually to tobacco growers as additional support, which they are virtually unable to claim this year. If the government provided them with a $5 billion aid, it would, of course, mean something, it could cover about a significant part of the cost. Once again, I would like to point out: in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, if 25 thousand people's livelihoods and work were to become uncertain overnight, that would be a very serious problem for us in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. As I have said, we would like to ask that this problem be resolved as soon as possible, because, as I have said, these farmers should long ago continue to operate on seedlings, they should have done so long ago, and unfortunately, even because of the uncertain behaviour of the government so far, they are still in a precarious position. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-186	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-09-187	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, As I said, the government is monitoring and considers it very important for the future work of disadvantaged tobacco growers. During the negotiations, we assured them that the government would resolve this issue, and therefore, in the hot houses and in the foil tents, the sowing of tobacco seeds had to take place today. I very much hope that there will be no frost, that the seedling will grow very well with proper protection, and that it will be able to produce effectively this year. I think that the HUF 5 billion provided by the government to tobacco growers can help and support this support in an appropriate and appropriate way, because the survival and employment of people living in the countryside for the Hungarian government is a priority issue. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-188	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The last immediate question and obviously an answer will be taken under the item on the agenda. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Do people get back everything that the banks have unwarrantedly taken from them? It's an address. I ask Mr. Congressman if he accepts the person appointed to answer, Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-09-189	Mr President, Dear House, During the next period, the issue of whether foreign exchange credit victims have obtained adequate compensation will be a recurring one along the so-called bank accounts. The fact is that, based on the feedback received so far and on market expectations, it can be said that a lot of credit damage has been caused to him... - so, as much as he paid more than justified, he will, if appropriate, only get back a tenth or, better casewise, a quarter or a fifth, but we can still say that huge amounts unduly taken have been credited to the banks. Jobbik's first warning can be dated 1 April 2010, as regards the forinting at the exchange rate at the time of admission. Let's see how much the exchange rate was then: it moved around 185 Swiss francs at the point of our first warning. So if you had liked to move at this time, instead of the 256 HUF exchange rate in the Forints Act, each Hungarian family involved in this huge problem could have saved millions of dollars. According to our modest calculations, the average loan-damaged family could only have saved about HUF 3 million in terms of capital. So because of your testosity, a family with credit damage was worse off than if, in 2010, they had caught this problem, as we suggested. If we count it with interest, with interest, then an average of 3.3 million forints was worse for a family with credit damage because of you. As a result, it is very important to talk about this issue now, and as far as the essence of the question is concerned, what will happen to all the social groups who have been left out of the settlement, what will happen to the 250 000 car loan holders, what will happen to the 300 000 free-use loan victims, we can now say without further ado? So how is it imaginable that the government lists A and B among victims, debtors, and yet what can be expected of those little minions to whom they have not given any help? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-190	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-09-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It has been a long way for you to ask whether you will be able to get everything back, because for years we have not discussed it, but a real settlement, which for us means that the settlement will be legally, economically and financially unattractive, has taken a long time. But we believe that the solution the government provides to those affected by laws approved by Parliament is such a solution. There won't be tens of thousands of lawsuits, there won't be hundreds of thousands of lawsuits, the banking system is finally coming back to its original task, the help of the Hungarian National Bank cannot be questioned, our foreign reserves are still stable. I believe that the government has found a solution that is reassuring to all of us. Indeed, the accounts on the part of the banks have started, as they have taken note of this solution. If anyone has a problem or difficulty with this, they have been cleared - because you mentioned such a client - then they can go to the bank first, and then within 60 days they have to get an answer from the bank, and if that doesn't work for them, they can go to the conciliation body, and if they can't even get green, that is to say, accept the solution, then they can go to the court. We believe that this solution, which was found jointly by the government and the Parliament, is a correct and good solution for foreign exchange creditors. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-09-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2015-03-09-193	Mr President, Dear House, I am truly honored to read a pre-written paper, because with this people have worked, we respect the work, the only problem is that I have asked you about the situation of 250 plus 300 thousand victims here, and you have not said a single word about what will happen to those who have already been told in the press that the government, if it does not resolve their situation - the car credentials, the free-use credentials - is at least acting as a mediator, which is ridiculous in itself. A two-thirds government against criminal banks instead of acting, takes on a mediation role, and now recommends people to go back to court if everything breaks down, while the Secretary of State is pleased that there will be no tens of thousands of lawsuits, as if this were the endgame. The fact is, on the other hand, that for every injured family, you will credit a million dollars on the banks' side, which is completely unjustified, unacceptable, and the fact that, for reasons of clarity, the banking system is coming to terms with one thing: you have made a pact with the banking system that will bind your own hands, and you simply do not have the guts to resolve this problem. If that's the case, please say it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-194	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-09-195	Thank you very much. You have mentioned this pact several times. Well, that could be true of everyone but the Fidesz government. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] If such a solution costs the banks between 1000 billion and 1200 billion - because we are now at 1200 billion - which will now be posted to people and paid off, beyond what the bank has paid bank tax and transaction tax in this cycle, it will be more than 1500 billion; if this pact for you is that much for a banking system, then... I think that the priority of the problem is clear to society, which is what the government has stated, namely that the government is helping mortgage lenders, those who have tried to buy and expand housing, so they have been able to make a living out of it for their families. Car credit is not part of this circle. I believe that most of the foreign exchange creditors have accepted this, and I ask that you and you accept it. [[14.40]]
u2015-03-09-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Bertalan Tóth, Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a speech:. What is happening in Pusztaföldvár? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-09-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A Fidesz mayor was convicted of fiscal fraud - we read in a national newspaper recently, because on 26 February this year the Gyula Tribunal found him to be guilty in the second degree and sentenced Dr. István Baranyi, the Fidesz Mayor of Pusztaföldvár in Békés County, to a fine of HUF 2 million. In addition to him, there were a total of six and current representatives of the local government were convicted by the court, and they were also fined, also because of fiscal fraud as an accessory. The case is the story of an overpriced municipal investment, besides the municipal officials, it includes an entrepreneur, who was sentenced to nearly HUF 4.5 million in confiscation in addition to the fine. All defendants' judgments are now final. The first instance judgment was delivered at the Gyula District Court on 22 October 2013, but neither Pusztaföldvár nor the Békés county public knew about this judgment and the case. The mayor will not give up his post, which is confirmed this weekend in a newspaper article written by the town's notary, because he claims that the fine is not a prison sentence, and that if he pays it, by the power of the law, his mandate will not cease, since he is exempt from criminal law. István Baranyi spoke to this newspaper and told us that the South Lowland Regional Development Agency supported a solar collector contest in 2009 and that it was equipped for the school. However, the mayor was aware that the solar collector was unable to provide electricity at night, so he discussed with the local gas mechanic how to bridge this problem, who, at half a price, was not for 12 million forints, but for half of it he agreed to do so, but neither the local notary nor the local two representatives supported this solution and filed a police report. There was an investigation, and this was the basis for the indictment, the first-degree, and then the second-degree verdict. First, however, the South Lowland Regional Development Agency suspended the grant, then changed its mind and yet paid 12 million forints. Baranyi, the mayor, emphasized that after his first judgment, in 2013, he offered his resignation - and pay attention to whom - to the then government commissioner and to György Simonka, President of the constituency, who told him not to give up his post. The question arises as to how a mayor may propose his resignation to the local Fidesz constituency president, even though this settlement, citizens and voters of the town of Pusztaföldvár, have voted for it. The fair procedure would be that if, by virtue of the law, the mayor's mandate does not cease, but the mayor resigns, and in an interim election, after he claims that he has been exempt from criminal law and has not been banned from the exercise of public law, he should resume the mayor's election and leave the inhabitants of the settlement to decide whether a mayor who has been convicted of budgetary fraud is eligible for this post. But there is also the question of how the South Great Plain Regional Development Agency did pay for this investment in 2013 and paid for that 12 million forints, even though it already knew that there was criminal proceedings in this case, which was now closed by a final judgment, and the mayor was finally convicted. I am asking my fellow Members, my fellow Members, how long they are covering for the Fidesz mayor who committed the crime, and here, in front of the public of Parliament, I call on the mayor to resign from his post and to re-assemble himself, not to ask the local Fidesz potentate Simonka György for permission to be mayor or not. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also spoke after the agenda with the title MSZP: after Women's Day. You have the floor.
u2015-03-09-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I looked on the Fidesz website for their women's day toast, but I couldn't find it. I have a statement from the Minister of Human Resources that I would like to quote. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] We have made a lot of progress over the last few years in order to help women [[Jobbik MEPs consult Fidesz MEPs. The president's ringing the bell.]] in the life situations where they are most vulnerable, but we have not yet reached the end of the work. It is very false to listen to these words after the vote when the Fidesz-KDNP Group voted off the Istanbul Convention. I'd like to read one more sentence. It is important to give the freedom of choice and help women to coordinate work and family life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I don't want to talk about the Istanbul convention, I want to talk about the choice, and I want to talk about how to coordinate the work of a woman, a family mother, with her private life, with her family life. It is well known that Sunday was the last day that most shops in Hungary could be open. Today, there are 530,000 employees in the commercial sector. More than 70-80 percent of that is female or mother. I would like to quote from a newspaper article what it means for these mothers to be closed on Sundays from now on:. Yesterday was the last time the shops were open on Sunday, from now on Monday to Saturday almost all shops extend the opening hours. Some workers have to spend 13 hours in a row, and some people have to pack at night. Many asked for the bonus on Sunday directly, now jumping to them about 10 thousand forints per occasion. Their Saturdays will also be ruined by the whole Sunday close-up, and their days off will also be chaotic. A lot of angry employees in the country.I would like to quote from this article, and it seems that the decision-makers did not really count on the fact that the closing of the shop on Sunday will not really make the workers bitter because of the falling Sunday allowances, but are angry because they will be forced to work from vision to blindness. Here's a sign: 70-80 percent of 530,000 workers are women and mothers. I would like to quote a worker: so far, news has come that if we have to work 12 hours, we will have to push a shift, and at this time we will have an hour's lunch. "So we'll be here for 13 hours," he explained. As for earlier openings and later closings, there are several employees in the store who will be home in an hour and a half. For them, this change is going to be a disaster. You know, fellow Members, this is when we talk about having a family-friendly government. The family-friendly government who, say, can force a mother to work for 13 to 14 hours a day along with the journey. I would like to quote on the following: a seller working in Auchan, Budapest complained that instead of falling Sundays, they would have to go in at night to pack and stock up. For the time being, the biggest problem they see is that after closing, the store system is shutting down, so they can write down prices, they can't even check stocks, they can't even load. Now they know that night shifts can take place from 9:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Saturday. According to the seller, it got a lot worse than the rest of Sunday when they could still pack. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.50]] I would like to quote one more thing: on the door of a Coop in Kecskemét you can see the new opening, and one of the workers said, "I will literally quote: "I would like to put the head into this - here we are talking about a pot - who made this up. It's messed up our lives, and it's interfering with our family. What for? Well, why am I not as old as I am when I vote so I can decide what I want to do on Sunday? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that these quotes reflect what you have caused hundreds of thousands of Hungarian mothers and family mothers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-09-200	Thank you, Congresswoman. The speaker after the next agenda is Mr István Ikotity, Mr LMP:. Székely's Day of Freedom. You have the floor within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-09-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I ask for your attention on an occasion which belongs simultaneously to the sad, great days of Hungarian history and to the present, the question of the survival of the Hungarian community in Transylvania. I would like to draw your attention to the day of Szekler freedom, remind you of that. Each March we realize how little we know about the martyrs of Szekler 1854 at all, the heroes who did not accept oppression, who had the courage and faith to resist in the atmosphere of snow, silence, and death. Five years after the shooting of light weapons, five years after the executions in Arad, Hungary once again signalled that it would not accept the Bach system and the servitude of the Habsburg absolutism. They showed that the struggle for freedom, equality of rights and national independence could be overpowered by the Russian-Austrian forces, but the nation was only dormant, and beneath the ashes was the embers of the revolution. The idea of a national uprising organized by Colonel József Makk in Transylvania, in Szeklerland, fell on the most productive soil. Urban citizens, small nobles and intellectuals both guarded the belief that freedom could be gained and that the liberation of the country was a realistic goal. It wasn't up to them that it happened differently. In the spring of 1854 many were executed. This moving chapter of our history in itself, but it gives special weight and significance to this year's anniversary is the undeserving affair of recent years and months with the Romanian authorities. Today we are free to live as an equal member of the family of the Western European states, and even as a member of this family is our neighbour Romania, yet we are also at the point that our Transylvanian compatriots are not free to celebrate the Szekler Day of Freedom this year. Apart from my youngest fellow Members, we can all well remember the soft dictatorship of the 1980s, when they tried to make opposition initiatives impossible with administrative harassment for some reason. According to our friends Székely, the situation is very similar on the other side of the border: administrative means such as blocking traffic are used to ban the Székely memorial procession. That's what's happening this year, that's what's happening next year. But why? Because, in recent years, Szekler's Day of Freedom has been aligned with the need for territorial autonomy and the issue of protest against planned administrative reform. Against this reform, everyone in Transylvania who respects the integrity of communities and cultures will speak out. This so-called reform would tear apart the Hungarian-inhabited districts, giving a further boost to assimilation and the integration of Hungarian communities. We can't stay silent in this case either. We must say, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone who hinders memory limits his right to the identity of the Hungarian community. We must say: those who obstruct a legitimate claim against autonomy, those who dig trenches among Transylvanian nationalities, are XX. and the 19th. They can't do better than the answers of the century to today's questions. The two centuries behind us brought a series of disasters for all Transylvanian families, communities and settlements. We can't go back to this age. From here, too, I urge the Romanian authorities to change their attitude, because this does not promise a solution, but it can be a source of additional serious tensions. In 2015, the right to identity in the Carpathian Basin cannot be removed. This cannot be done to the Hungarians in Transylvania just as with the Romanian minority living in our country or with dozens of ethnic communities in the region. They can't stop this memorial. In Sepsiszentgyörgy and Gyergyószentmiklós, they remember the martyrs of 1854 with a flag and candlelight. There's no way to force the ghost back into the bottle with a single stroke of a pen. The supporters of autonomy, the opponents of public administration reform, will be there again this year to show that they believe in this matter. We'll be there, and the LMP delegation will be arriving in Marosvásárhely soon. Tomorrow we place the wreath at the memorial of the Szekler martyrs. Is our government, often pleased with the role of the anointed defender of Hungarians beyond the borders, ready to stand up for our Szekler countrymen now? We'll find out soon enough. Using the rights that József Makk and his associates fought for, we must show that we really stand up for the self-determination and self-management of Transylvanian Hungarians; last year, this year and next year as long as necessary. Thank you.
u2015-03-09-202	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Árpád Potápi wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-03-09-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, By virtue of the responsibility of the government of national affairs enshrined in the Fundamental Law and in the spirit of the cross-border integration of the Hungarian nation, the government always stands up for the independence and freedom of Hungarian communities abroad. Self-determination of national communities is a fundamental human right and, from a national political point of view, the key to the survival and growth of Hungarians. Our goal is to allow all Hungarians to live a full Hungarian life in the Carpathian Basin. The Hungarian Government's position on the autonomy efforts of Hungarian communities outside Hungary is clearly recorded in the document entitled "Hungarian National Policy - Framework of the National Policy Strategy" adopted by the Hungarian Permanent Conference. We set out in this: our goal is for Hungarian communities to make their own decisions on matters that concern them. This autonomy is severely impaired by any administrative changes that, without taking into account the existing European standards, adversely affect the Hungarian community in Transylvania. It is good to see, however, that Transylvanian Hungarians do not fall into this right, but want to use the means of peaceful protest to defend their rights. What is more disappointing is that the management of the city in Targu Mures prevents the realisation of an event that is not aimed at disorderly conduct, but at peaceful commemoration and declaration of rights. The Hungarian Government supports the organizers of the event and rejects Florea's decision to embarrass the purpose of the event. The Romanian city leadership clearly aims to prevent Hungarians from standing up for the autonomy of Szeklerland in an organised form, showing a united force. However, we consider it a manifestation of sound thinking that the Székely National Council finally stopped keeping the commemoration, not wanting to make it seem that it agrees with the banning of the other two parts of the event. It gives us reason to be confident that this did not constitute a retreat. Several people indicated that they would be present individually with one flower at the memorial of the Szekler martyrs. Due to the cancelled event in Târgu Mures, the Hungarian parties and organizations from Transylvania jointly organize protests in Csíkszereda, Sepsiszentgyörgy and Gyergyószentmiklós, but also expected elsewhere, in addition to the autonomy of Szekler, against the restriction of clear rights, freedom of expression and the right of assembly, to show solidarity with the Hungarians in Târgu Mures. We can only express our joy by seeing this unusual example of the expression of Hungarian unity. [[15.00]] Let me also say that I am pleased personally, and also on the part of the government, that Hungarian parties are also joining this. Dear House, Our aim remains to enable Hungarian communities to make their own decisions on their own living conditions, on matters that concern them, which requires the establishment of the entire institutional system of Hungarian communities abroad. The Hungarian Government supports the Szeklers' right to autonomy with all possible means, and we therefore enjoy our full solidarity with the events to be held on the Szekler Day of Freedom. We hope that the Romanian party can be persuaded to be gracious about Szeklerland's self-determination. Thank you for your speech and I hope that as many people as possible will join this. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-09-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Árpád Potápi State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar Jobbikós, MP applied for a post-meeting speech:. The lands of the national parks will also be the victims of muty? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-09-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The issue has already caused quite a stir in the civil sector, but I think we have unfortunately talked little about it in the walls of Parliament. It's the land of the national parks, which the government has decided to transfer to the National Land Fund Manager. Trust rights will then be exercised by the Land Fund Manager. This, in itself, raises serious concerns, and this is not just for us, for example, for the better. The three largest Hungarian nature conservation organizations launched their campaign against this action in November. We are now talking about the fact that more than a hundred other civil society organisations have joined them, and I would like to point out that a number of civil society organisations considered close to the government have also been outraged. We also clearly see the disintegration of national parks in this step, a full declaration of war against Hungarian nature conservation. We also know, of course, that there were errors in the operation of national parks. I, too, believe that keeping gray cattle, for example, should not necessarily serve the business of certain national parks, and that the type of land use and grazing method used does not always follow the objectives that a national park would otherwise have to pursue. But even if there are such mistakes - I have really acknowledged that - it is not the solution that we take out these organizations, and through the National Land Fund Manager, we pawn out their land to the pals, as we have seen before with the state lands; but it would be the duty of the state to intervene in such cases and take the steps that will allow this insipid land use to be eliminated in the future in those few cases. The other national parks, in my opinion, were, unfortunately, well-functioning. They do not see the guarantee either by civil society organisations, national parks, or by the right-wingers about how they will make up for lost revenues. We have not yet seen or received any guarantees for this, and I am thinking primarily of the area aid, which will cause national parks to fall; while European Union funds are far from covering these losses, we do not want to talk about domestic resources, because you simply do not provide domestic resources. I have to mention the absolutely amazing statement where Minister Fazekas said that the national parks asked for this change. This is ridiculous in itself, and we know, of course, that since there has been no such national park who has asked for its own abolition and the removal of its resources. We are also concerned about the role of the demise directorates, because even if the directorate of the national parks was not nuclear-proof from the point of view that corruption had indeed appeared there, we heard news about it, but it gave us the opportunity to slow down government will in the case of some of the investments, not to give it to God, to prevent it, which was designed to crush national national conservation values and put industrial interests completely above it. Indeed, we have seen examples of how these directorates were able to put their money down in addition to preserving conservation values and even achieved some success. So I suspect that there may be political intentions behind this move. To give these lands to the National Land Fund Manager, allow us, Jobbiks, to look at them with a strong concern. The last few years have been loud about the land leases of the NFA. I find it quite amazing that we are in the middle of Europe in 2015 that all of our common property, the land of all Hungarian citizens, are distributed to their friends without transparent, public, and there is not even an opportunity for redress for those who feel that they have not had access to state land unfairly in such a land lease application. Back in the early days, they made the mistake that we Members of Parliament had the opportunity to look into the application system, and in this way we revealed quite a lot of dope and, of course, we did the complaints. But after you have had enough of this and felt that this situation was not comfortable enough for them, it has been working for a year and a half to post the losing applications on the day of the publication of the tender, thus making our fact-finding work difficult. We Members need to hunt down losers in order to compare the final result with the winner's proposal, and in this way we are able to reveal the abuses, which, by the way, are teeming with these land lease applications. In short, these were the reasons why Jobbik couldn't support national parks being destroyed and leaving their land to an organization loaded with this kind of shit and getting it to their buddies. We also demand, on behalf of civil society organisations, that this be withdrawn immediately. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-09-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speaking after the next agenda, Mr President Novák is a better Member:. The population loss is endangering the pension system and the general government as a whole. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-09-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to present the resolution in which some of my amendments have been adopted by this professional body as a permanent invitation to the Population Round Table, although not having the right to vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Low birth numbers and emigration threaten the future of social security and public finances, overshadowing our growth prospects, and this is the title of the resolution whose motto is that we do not need to dig when we are thirsty. Today, it has become clear that the population situation carries severe tensions, but the economic consequences of this have not yet been sufficiently addressed by Hungarian society. The impact of population processes on the pension system and public finances will be dramatic in a few decades and may also be a barrier to the country's growth prospects. This can be accelerated and exacerbated by international migration trends. While by 2041 the number of people aged between 15 and 59 who have paid most of the pension contributions is estimated conservatively, without taking into account the effects of migration, is expected to decrease by five, the number of people over 60 will increase by one third, which will not only upset the pension system operating on the expatriate principle, but will affect the general government as a whole by transforming the proportion of beneficiaries and dependants. By 2050, the number of people over 60 is expected to exceed those between 25 and 59 years of age achieving the vast majority of economic production, who will be 30 percent less than today. The state has the opportunity to intervene in these trends while young people are planning around enough children to reduce the rate of ageing, to simply regenerate the population. Hungary is at 24 hours. Although the government recognised the importance of childbearing as exemplary and strongly supports families with children in European comparison, Hungarian social security does not give enough benefit to parents who have children. Strictly on the basis of the principle of insurance, a legal basis for the pension can only be created on the basis of the cash contributions of the income from the employment relationship. Thus, parents who have more than one child can expect the least pension compared to their peers who have provided society with the highest and most qualified workforce, human capital, paying contributions in kind. Pension insurance, as declared by the government in 2014, appears to be eligible for funding by 2030. Previously, children who are able to raise the income base for older people were born. However, after 2030, due to sudden and falling child births, there will no longer be enough contributions. At the time of the change of regime, 130,000 children were born each year, today only 90 thousand. Infertility has also become a disease, so not everyone who wants can have children. The problem is particularly great because in the last decade married commitment has radically decreased in the ages of 20 to 30, which is the safest framework for child rearing and education. The loss of the number of these years on the Corp is the effect of a small war. [[15.10]] At present, the amount of contributions and payments to the pension fund is close to the same, but in a few decades, when the number of contributors increases by 50%, this system will obviously be unsustainable. Even now, it only offers less and less and more and more to fewer people. The problem will probably come forward even sooner. The reason for this is that some 500 thousand of our countrymen who are working abroad - I add that some estimates suggest that there are more than one million economic refugees, but more importantly, to get to Viktor Orbán, who regularly feeds the Hungarians who leave for the West as economic refugees, but I quote further the opinion of the Population Round Table - who does not pay contributions to domestic public finances, because they are concerned with them - neither taxes, nor even consumer taxes, as they spend a significant part of their income abroad. If foreign workers had worked at home and paid taxes and contributions based on average income alone, the budget would not have closed in 2014 with a deficit but with a modest surplus. Since these persons will also receive a pension from the country of employment, to which the contribution is now paid, according to the period of stay outside, this will later relieve the pension fund at home. However, if they stay outside - according to a survey published by the HCSO in autumn 2014, only 10 percent are planning to come back - then we will have to transfer the pension to them after the period of employment at home, while their raised children pay most of their contributions and taxes out there. Dear Parliament, I do not have time to present the whole resolution in the context of a post- Agenda speech, but [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I trust that the government will add in the five minutes available to you, and will tell you all that you can add to this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-208	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. The speaker after the next agenda is Mr Vágó Sebestyén Jobbikós, Member of the European Parliament, on the protection of children. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-09-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A week and a half ago, in the Hungarian media, the news exploded as a bomb, that the island-szentmiklós couple received the mildest punishment in the courthouse in the first degree, so that they could get out, filling out their sentence. The other bomb was a press conference of the prosecutor's office, in which they revealed the facts that they provided evidence that in this family, as much as it could be called a family, I would call it a community of life - what brutal actions were done to children: feeding them fecals, regularly watching porn films with them, raping them, making them try what they saw on certain watched films, keeping them in inhuman conditions, not washing for days, living in dirt and dirt. The next outrageous news, therefore, was that although the prosecution had brought the appropriate evidence before the court, the court decided that most of these acts of violence did not take place, and that, on the basis of the incompetence of the seconded psychological expert, it relieved the charge of rape, even though the prosecution said it could be clarified by the smart people involved in law enforcement, and according to the psychologist with the appropriate examination, these actions were clear. The third media bomb we heard about this case was a statement from the couple's defense attorney that if the penalty is not aggravated at second instance, this couple may even claim compensation to the Hungarian State. So where are we in Hungary today? ! There is a need for zero tolerance for perpetrators of this type of crime. There is a need to increase the penalties against the perpetrators of this type of crime! And there is a need to renew the child protection warning system, to operate the child protection warning system in such a way that such cases still fall out in the bud; on the one hand, so that these children, these underage persons, may suffer as little damage as possible, because in my opinion - as a social professional - such acts are equal to murder and manslaughter. Here, not in their physical state, but in their soul and personality, these people murdered their own children. If the child protection warning system had functioned normally, and it could have been tracked in time and in the bud, and these actions could have been caught in action, there would have been conclusive evidence that these actions had been done, and there could not have been any indication that the psychologist was incompetent, and that, in the light of the time passed, it was not really possible to know that these acts were only the children's fantasies or actually happened - then it would have been clear that these things had happened. And then the pediatrician, the guardian, the child welfare services and the educational institutions were flawed. Because these children went to educational establishments, and these brutal acts were only revealed when, after an escape, the guardianship emphasized these children from their families, and in foster parents, they dared to talk about things that had happened to them in a safe environment for years. We are almost two decades away from the entry into force of the Child Protection Act, and we are still concerned that such acts may occur in a medium where this family was in the sight of all members of the child protection warning system. What motivated you to fail to take the right steps, the right signal? I can also imagine that many times because of fear. That is why we have also said that more protection by law is indeed due to workers in the social field in the protection of children. In fact, they often have to go out to the segregational environment of a settlement every day, week after week, and meet families against whom, in many cases, there is a need to take action to protect children. They deserve more protection. But they are entitled to the more severe penalty in the event of such an act. Because we have not yet heard that, even in this particular case, any member of the child protection warning system would have been sanctioned, even though if they had done their job properly - otherwise respect for all those who do their job with honor in the face of lack of rights and do their duty as active members of the warning system, so they have failed - these acts, then. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] suppressed in the bud, they could have been freed from many negative consequences, whether these children or all Hungarian children. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, MEP Ander Balázs, Jobbikos, has applied for a speech: What will happen to you, history teaching? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-09-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the ideas of education policy, the government wants to shift a much larger proportion of one age group towards vocational school education compared to the current 20-25 percent. However, within the framework of otherwise eligible and not dual training from the devil, the number of public knowledge classes has been brutally reduced. Thus, from moving forward, a major generation of graduations, but even graduations, are almost legally excluded, radically opposed to the goals of catching up the country, even more ripping apart the society that has already been broken from the already ravine. After all, the much-spoken 3+2 course, according to which the 3 years of vocational training would be followed by 2 years of education if there were only 12 hours of public education per week during the first part of the cycle, of which a total of 6 are physical education and classrooms. What basis can the remaining 6 hours provide, how can it establish the success of further studies? Obviously nothing, especially if we consider that according to the PISA surveys, most of the disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged young people who go to vocational education and training schools are already seriously lagging behind in this type of school. It is impossible to work off this disadvantage with such hours. But there are other questions. Please allow me to approach this from a slightly different perspective as a teacher of history in a vocational school for ten years. In addition to the framework curriculum content of the published hours, it is almost impossible to familiarise students in the system of vocational training with the history of Hungarians, their artistic and cultural values, without our common cultural treasures, without the merging knowledge of our history, the forces of national cohesion are becoming even weaker. And it is not just a narrow national policy consideration, because history teaching is perfectly capable of developing social and narrative competences, improving the understanding of the text, strengthening the ability to think critically, without which these young people will certainly not have the chance to be successful in the labour market. But if you want to train biorobots, modern labor animals, from a quarter of a generation, along with a conveyor belt, you're on the right track. [[15.20]] Demotion of human objects also leads directly to the eroding of intellectual property which is the cornerstones of national identity. Obviously, it is also necessary to ask whether the part of Hungarian students who will end up in a vocational school will know whether they will hear about the rich history of Hungarians, which is integrated in an organic unit. It would be a shame for a student, but we're talking about a year or so, a quarter of the next generation. It gives me a strange feeling that the wildest neoliberal dogmas, which have been successfully removed so far, are realized just under a right-wing government. They talk about integration all the time, but it can have terrifying consequences when we think about the possible consequences of this so-called reform. After primary school, most of the young gypsies continue their studies in vocational school. Most of the knowledge that students receive there has already been discussed many times, but it is not about what will happen if they go on with such knowledge. What's the goal? What generations do you want to raise? What will you know about Hungary's history, Hungary's past, historical reasons, and effects, for example, is the gypsy who performed as a locksmith, who has been taught according to the guidance of the existing social knowledge framework? And before the people responsible for education policy and vocational training reform have the question of why they need such knowledge at all, I would like to point out that I have had a gypsy-born student with whom we have reached the final of the national history competition. I wish him good luck from here on out. And obviously it is not only a dangerous possibility of the fatal disposal of a large minority layer from Hungarians. Then let's not be surprised that, I quote, the Saint Crown will be a never-worn pumpkin fence of a figure named Stephen, not only for a few lowlife villains, but unfortunately also for the demented broad masses. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-09-212	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. An independent Member, László Varju, has also applied for an after-the-meet speech:. The most important events of the last week? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-09-213	Thank you very much. I'll wait for all the better Members to get out of here, and then I'll start this comment. On the subject of seeing week after week the government's helplessness committed either by officials or by their offices. One example I see is that we all know that Mr Tiborcz has won a public lighting tender and a renewal tender in countless places in recent months. He is the main contractor of this area through his own-legged applications, so he could earn billions of HUF revenue. On this subject, I asked Mr Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, whether he could see the situation in which the decision-making process is made in public tenders in such a way that the applicant, the decision-maker of the tender and the contractor can be found in a business relationship, otherwise they are business partners; he considers this to be appropriate. In his reply, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén denied the situation, which has been presented in full by the press since then, that this is what is happening. Mr Zsolt Semjén, I think that again, whether here in Parliament, you must answer what you think is right or wrong. But this does not end here, because the involvement of the offices in other areas will appear with Mr Tiborcz, Prime Minister's son-in-law. For example, when they were able to buy that port in Keszthely, it turns out that there was another substantial offer, but it was covered up. More and more people in town are talking about it. It is time to publish the material of the closed meeting of the local government in Keszthely. And now, with all due respect, I would like to call on the government's office to comply with the official announcement of this situation and to inform the general public about the damage that could have been caused to the local government in Keszthely. But if the government office didn't do this, there would be a suitable organization, either in the person of Péter Polt, who would have had more information about property and other abuses, whether in terms of public interest, could have acted on his own. Instead, what did he do? Now, when he is shown in statistics that three times as many complaints were filed during his period as ever before, he now orders a self-examination in this regard, and actually, like Ildikó Vida, he investigates himself. True, he promises to carry out a detailed examination not in three days, but in three months. Well, with all due respect, Mr. Attorney General, today you can tell me how this investigation is going to end. You will claim that you have worked well, despite the fact that you have received countless reports that you should have acted on. In spite of the fact that the National Bureau of Investigation has been ignored several times, it was you who ignored all of this. But to draw attention only to the last such inertia of government helplessness, last week and now on the ground, for example, it is linked to the closing of the store on Sunday. You have adopted a rule that you can ask permission 15 days before the closing date to keep the opening hours. The law has been passed, and the regulation of the details does not appear here either. In the same way, they do not make the necessary rules and put employers, not only the 30,000 workers who are being dismissed for this purpose, but also the offices that today look at traders with their hands wide open about what they will do later. This is the corruption and inertia of the Orbán government's offices. That's what the last week's been about. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-09-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a post- Agenda address:. The case of the wind rooster with the title of the sky. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-09-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This morning Viktor Orbán called the Heads of Mission. This was an extraordinary ambassadorial meeting. We got used to ambassadorial meetings happen in the summer and usually once a year. Yet, this extraordinary occasion has taken place. I must say, nothing new has happened. Those who thought that on this occasion the Prime Minister would announce a huge foreign policy turnaround and the use of completely different means and methods and the return to traditional values. Of course, this did not happen, and it even explicitly confirmed the direction it has been following in recent years. This was all good for Viktor Orbán to have a self-polish, it was good for him to build himself a stage where he could appear again, and it was learned from the press that these ambassadorial meetings would now take place twice a year. For my part, I would suggest that it be a monthly one, because Hungarian foreign policy is so incredibly unpredictable and volatile that it is necessary to inform the ambassadors and to explain continuously. I think they, too, are forced to keep explaining in the host country. We have to say that Hungary's foreign policy has now completely ceased, we can only talk about a fidesz policy of interest, nothing else. And a very narrow Fidesz group interest is constantly being lied to by the government for Hungarian national interest. This also contributes to the fact that Hungarian foreign policy is unpredictable to the extreme, if you can call it that, although predictability must be one of the main criteria of foreign policy. We have seen that the opening of the East has no results. I think Péter Szijjártó will be in trouble, because he has now announced the opening of the south here, and the sky will slowly run out. The question is, what will you be able to announce in the future? Perhaps it would be worth returning to Western values, by the way. [[15.30]] What can we call mistrust, for example? Because a rather serious mistrust of Hungary is beginning to develop in international space. I believe that a good foreign policy is already open in all directions and that, applying values and interests in the right balance, this foreign policy represents the real Hungarian national interest, which should be realised. I must add here that the real Hungarian national interest must be enforced in such a way that it cannot lead to mistrust. That's not how it happened. This is how Russian President Putin, for example, could ask the soldiers of the Ukrainian forces to put down the weapon at Debalceve, here in Hungary, in the presence of Viktor Orbán. So he managed to send this message about Hungary, and Viktor Orbán did not have a word about it, and he stood by it. Péter Szijjártó made five foreign policy objectives at a conference last week, and I would like to mention this briefly. One is the strengthening of the German alliance. This is, by the way, a very appropriate thing, since basically relationships can be called good. Although Angela Merkel's visit also showed that there may be significant differences in certain areas, such as democracy and other areas. But I think it's the least of the trouble the government's caused. The Hungarian-American relationship is absolutely clear. You can see that the corruption case, the banning scandal, has put a stamp on it. The government hasn't been able to settle this until today. I have already said a few sentences about Russian policy, which was also mentioned by Péter Szijjártó as a priority, and in this connection also the Ukrainian settlement. He also agreed to cooperate in Visegrád, to care for these relationships, which, I think, is also a huge failure. We can see that the Hungarian Government is unable to cooperate with the Polish Government and is taking steps that are not acceptable to the Polish Government, otherwise completely understandable. We see that the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria are strengthening each other in a new alliance. Where is Hungary? Hungary is now in isolation not only within Europe, but, as Viktor Orbán noted, how important Central European cooperation is now also within Central Europe. I can only congratulate the government on that. They need to think about what they're doing, because they're on a very dangerous path. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-09-216	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP István Tukacs, Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a speech. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame: It's an address.
u2015-03-09-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor after the agenda because a document was published two months after the adoption of its internal content is doubtful. The government concept entitled "Healthy Hungary 2014-2020" was discussed in December and was published in the Hungarian Gazette in early February. That's what they say, it's been accepted with a lobe. I think the reason for this was that this document was necessary to apply for EU money in the health sector. However, this could still have been done in a demanding way and conducted a social debate. I would like to draw attention to the desperate, grotesque and, unfortunately, smiling elements of this concept in some places. Firstly, in particular, the fact that it is unusual for a professional concept to try to achieve it in a political sense. However, interestingly there are references of a political nature to the previous government cycle in this concept; I will not say with what basic position, my fellow Members will find out. However, when, within two paragraphs, the concept talks about the huge destruction of health in the last eight years, and then in the other paragraph, it talks about unprecedented health improvements in the previous EU development cycle, one smiles, as the EU development cycle lasted from 2007 to 2013. Therefore, to praise him means not to criticize the previous course. On the other hand, what was interesting to me in this paper was what was not in it. There was no mention of gratitude money, there was no mention of doctor and worker emigration, there was no mention of healers working in desperate circumstances, and there was no mention of huge inequality in access to health. I am already suspicious of about two thirds of a concept dealing with situational analysis and the remaining one third of the plans. But that wouldn't be a problem. However, there are desperate things in the plans. That's what I want to talk to you about. In the first place, it contradicts the recent statements of the health government and the Secretary of State for Health. It contradicts, for example, the fact that they want to reorganize inpatient care, commonly known as hospital care. They insist that there should be county-wide care and that the people who live there receive care in hospitals. However, the concept speaks of the need for a larger supply area than the counties, which is smaller than the regions, because this seems to be professionally manageable. That's the first contrast. The second opposite. As I said, the concept doesn't talk about gratuity money, but the Secretary of State is now announcing that a system should be tried in which doctors undertake to bind to the clot for a salary increase, in Hungarian, that they do not migrate abroad. There is only one problem with this, that it is not recorded in an EU document, and I think you understand the reasons for it, and on the other hand, the possibility of linking it to a clot, of remaining those who have free access to employment in the EU, is not quite elegant, and even in line with the principles of this Community. Because if Viktor Orbán says that certain people simply move to work within an economic area, so they are not emigrants, then doctors can move away with some countries, because neither are they. The third such item: this document, and this is the most serious, sets out a principle, which, if this government is going to comply, is a serious problem. It says that, together with GDP changes, the amount spent on health can increase. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I have to say that in health care, money is crucial. Anyone who says that he does not want to give a greater share of GDP to health care says that he wants to keep health care, healing and staying healthy in such a way. Then when the Secretary of State says he'll give you $6 billion to reduce waiting lists, he'll admit it's all about money. Because if there's money, there's healing; there's waiting list shortening, there's access to healing. Therefore, when this is to be recorded, it is the future failure of health care. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-09-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki also spoke after the agenda with the title of the local implementation of the Social Act. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-09-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It's been a few days since the social security system changed. Although it cannot be appreciated, it is essential to talk about what this meant at local level. In the context of the municipal law, therefore, the municipalities were entrusted with the task of operating the social care system. We see the danger of this, and we have also called the government's attention to the dangers of trying to put local governments in an impossible position, because they cannot really carry out the task without resources required by the social care system. So I think, and I have said to myself, in answer to this question, that Fidesz may want to give birth to Jobbik in the matter of getting much more people out of social care, and then there is a scapegoat, and it is possible to train scapegoats. This has also come down today within the walls of Parliament to try to design scapegoat training so that the fallen, the vulnerable and, in particular, the Roma are the biggest beneficiaries of the system provided by the relief system in Hungary. [[15.40]] Well, you're wrong, because you can talk about a long-term and short-term problem here. In the short term, it is, in any case, that if we do not adequately address the needs of those receiving social care, we will be faced with a long-term problem. The long-term problem, in particular, I think, will mean that employment, permanent employment, will be excluded, which means that they will not be able to get enough access to places and jobs where long-term employment would provide them. Therefore, in the long term, the operation of this supply system will in any case be quite a problem. The other thing I think we need to talk about again - and it is very important, and perhaps the longest-term programme means this - is participation in education. We can say that there's a free school election today, and there's free education, and everyone's going to study wherever they want, but that's not true. We see that this is not the case, because there are levels that poor people cannot escape. We don't have to go far now, and the chances of getting into high school have been reduced. And for whom have they reduced, who have they put at a disadvantage, which layer? The most disadvantaged layers. And it's not just the Roma, it's the poor people that they can't get into high school or college or college where they want to go. Therefore, I think that this is why we need to consider that if we say that the value invested in the future is the greatest value, then we see today that government measures do not give the most disadvantaged people the opportunity to have equal opportunities in education. But I would go further, and it is safe to say that social equality is equally important in addition to education. Here we say that the middle class is starting to slide down, and now you can see that there are fewer and fewer numbers, that layer, that number that is found in the middle class, and precisely because very many of the long-term employment has been excluded in the last five to six years. Many have not been able to start an education in which they have been able to open up alternatives and prospects. As a result, the slipping of the social layers greatly affects the middle class and the middle class. As a result, the government will have a responsibility to address this issue, because the slippage and slippage of the social layers are certainly present. Returning to the municipalities, there is only one idea: they have not only put municipalities in a difficult position by not being able to manage this social security system without resources, but also because tax laws have been changed - and to whose disadvantage? At the expense of the municipal authorities. So they took away tax types that the municipalities have been able to live with so far. It is also possible to conclude that they can do nothing but make one or two institutional systems vulnerable, a group that can, if necessary, become a voting machine for Fidesz. Therefore, the decision of the current Fidesz government to continue or to consider the social security system in this social system is responsible. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-09-220	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. After the agenda, Mr Benedek Sallai, Member of the LMP, spoke with the title 'The Green Source'. You have the floor.
u2015-03-09-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps very few of my fellow Members know that the Green Source is the name of the tender fund that has been intended to serve the purpose of supporting environmental and nature conservation civil society organisations with resources and grants from the Ministry of Environment. This year this application was announced, we saw it from the press release of the Ministry of Agriculture, with a total bid of HUF 40 million. The story begins with the fact that, at the time of the change of regime, when this civilian boom occurred, a multitude of citizens believed that public affairs should not be politicalized, but could also take on public tasks in the form of civil society organisations. That's when a crowd of civil society organisations came into being. From 1997 on, the Minister who created the background for the creation of civil green competitions from the Fuel Environmental Awards was named Ferenc Baja, and started supporting the activities of green civil society organisations with a bid of 256 million. After that, the amount of this fund increased steadily until 2002, until the last ministership of Béla Turi-Kovács, year after year, and at the end it exceeded HUF 1 billion in the number of applications spent in Hungary for green civilian purposes. These civil society organisations carried out and perform public tasks today, and a multitude of civil society organisations took on jobs that the state could not carry out in various areas where there were no nature conservation guards, where there were no field workers in nature conservation. And now, when the system of environmental and nature protection institutions is so significantly degraded, this task is all the more necessary. In 2002, the last year of Béla Turi-Kovács' ministry was the highest amount that green civilians could apply for. After that, the initial government reduced its funding to half 500 million, and after the departure of Mária Kóródi, it decreased to 350 million, and then we reached the minimum of 99 million, which Gábor Fodor had only one chance to grow back to 350 million, and then it dwindled again, and the bid dropped to less than 100 million. This is the low point of almost twenty years that we have experienced this year, 40 million forints are devoted to the tasks that are currently barely performed in the country. In recent weeks, the public has been shaken by eagle poisoning scandals. In recent weeks, the state of various animal shelters and lawns has shaken public opinion. Previously, a multitude of well-organized, institutionalized civil society organisations have been paying attention to such tasks, and their slow bleeding has been taking place for years. While we spend a lot of billions on prestigious investments and money distribution in each area, and state ministers here refer to 150 billion-dollar City Park development, they can't even tell us exactly what the 150 billion will serve and what it will be for, until then, environmental and nature-protection NGOs will have this 40 million-dollar tender fund with a maximum bid of 2 million. In rural areas in Hungary, a very special, end-castle green civil sector was created, which was different from the models of Western Europe, where there were local groups of a large organisation, WWF, Greenpeace; in England there is perhaps the most advanced such green civilian network, where the Royal Bird Protection Council or the foundation for wetland habitats and water species set up organizations. In Hungary, independent professional organisations have been set up, disappearing. Twenty-year-old, high-ranking organizations are disappearing forever because, in practice, this bledout, the withdrawal of funds, destroys the state's tasks that have been fully performed over the past two decades. In the course of amending the budget, I suggested to the government that it should devote significantly more resources to this purpose, unfortunately, the budgetary amendments, along with all other things, were voted down. Now, in recent months, when the ragweed scandal has reached its peak, the government has, with an elegant pull, transferred over 600 million into the FM budget in a matter of seconds to restore this error. This means that if there is an intention, then it can be helped. I would like to ask the government and the Ministry of Agriculture to reconsider their fate, to consider the need for an environmental and nature protection civil sector in Hungary, whether this green network, a multitude of civil society organisations and activists are needed, and, if so, to regroup funds, because they cannot sustain their activities without funding. I'd like to ask the government with respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-09-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varga MSZP MEP also applied for a post-scheduled speech:. Make sure everyone has a chance. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-09-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow opposition Members have been very patient, and they have not really criticised the circumstances in which these speeches following the agenda are now being made. Obviously, we're all learning a little bit about the new seating order, the A-week, the B-week, but let me tell you, it's quite shocking that it's not even 4:00 in the afternoon, and no member of the government has been following what the opposition's representatives say after the agenda for almost an hour. [[15.50]] The issues raised by opposition representatives regarding the new order of sitting have unfortunately become true, and you wish to work in Parliament every two weeks, and you do not want to spend this week here. I think this is a huge problem and a desperate, obviously limiting the rights of Parliament. While the title of my post- Agenda comment is already on odds, I cannot tell a member of the government that he may be able to carry on these issues, matters, but I have to talk about a series of events organized by the Public Workers' Union and the Hungarian Socialist Party throughout the country, in county seats at government offices. This was also the case in my constituency, Miskolc, where hundreds of people also demonstrated in front of the government office, and demanded equal opportunities for the break-down region and East Hungary. What I can tell you is that the demands that have been made are all important demands, and they are all about the fact that a country where about four million people live below the minimum level of existence cannot succeed is a country where the real value of the minimum wage has dropped dramatically in recent years and that it cannot succeed in the country from which nearly half a million people have migrated over the past period. At these demonstrations, they demanded the immediate cessation of this disruption, of this desperate social tension. There are a lot of public safety issues that you don't hear, by the way. Several demands have been made that have been on the agenda for years: Europe's peak is VAT in Hungary, and it is shocking that while in other EU Member States the VAT is one-digit or, where appropriate, zero percent is the key to basic foods, it is here that the poorest people are primarily subject to such a serious tax. Workers' poverty is getting worse in Hungary, while the government does not talk much about it, it is trying to keep this quiet, but the fact is that today those who are still working in these crisis areas, such as those living on minimum wage, cannot earn the minimum living. An important demand is to immediately raise the minimum wage to the minimum level of the government. The public sector wage bill has not been increased in recent years, but has been exclusively engaged in the wage of a withdrawn professional group. A serious demand in the public sector is the five percent immediate, but minimum ten thousand forints wage increase. This claim was also made at these demonstrations, as is the fact that the labour code is immediately reviewed, public workers should also be subject to the Labour Code, and indeed the Labour Code should be about what it should be about, i.e. the protection of workers' rights. The Hungarian labour market should be flexible in such a way that it is also in the interests of workers, not to mean flexible workers. This must be changed immediately. By the way, during the previous cycle, they managed to push the discussion of the Code of Work overnight, but we said this many times. Today, the masses of workers feel what they were talking about at the time. Early retirement pensions have also been mentioned. The system of these must be restored immediately, because today there is nothing for many professional groups such as miners, chemical workers, metallurgical workers; the system of early retirement benefits exists everywhere in Western Europe. What is going on in health care, education and social law is what my fellow Member Tukacs and my fellow Member Teleki have been talking about; it is also a sad situation here. I'd like to make another very short detour with the public workers. It's not enough that you have such an amazingly deep social problem, you provide a fraction of the number of municipalities in the public sector. There is also a municipality in Borsod County that has requested 200 public workers and can only get 20 as a frame number. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So not enough of this miserable social situation, it seems that this large number of public workers was only for the 2014 campaign year. Change your policies immediately, and notice that East Hungary and the countryside are in a break-down. A chance for everyone! Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-09-224	Thank you, Congressman Varga. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first day of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 16 March 2015. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:55 p.m.]]
