u2015-06-30-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome all of you and everyone who monitors our work. The 2nd meeting of the 3rd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be attending the meeting to help me. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the Group of the LMP, has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group on the title of the port building in Balatonfenyves. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-06-30-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Not so long ago, I raised my voice in order to point out in Parliament that the privatisation of the open water surface of Lake Balaton has also begun, to give open water surfaces to authorities for purposes that are well questionable both in terms of their justification and professionalism, and this would probably not be so painful if a permit were issued in violation of more than one legislation. In Balatonfenyves, on the southern shore of Lake Balaton, where the beach is the shallowest, where the beach is best suited for family-friendly tourism, where, by the way, it is very close to the Kis-Balaton, and the landscape has very rich natural values, so that the entire lake is protected in Natura 2000, where the port, which stretches into Lake Balaton with a number of sizes that humiliates some other European ports, reaches half a kilometer long, and has been created with four hectares of ejaculation. Obviously, nature conservation rules and environmental deficiencies do not affect anyone, so here I come up with the fact that there has been a complete violation of other legislation over the past period, as a construction permit has been issued illegally. However, the application of the law has now failed, since it did not realize that the construction work was illegal, unlike the decision permit. In particular, it is worth talking about the fact that the 2000 CXII, as amended in 2013 on the adoption of the spatial planning plan for the Balaton priority resort area and the establishment of the Balaton spatial planning rules. Law 35. §2 of the Act categorically prohibits the construction of a port of this kind. Nevertheless, this port has been established. But why is this possible, and how far can the threads go? In this regard, I look forward to the support of my fellow pro-government Members, since we find a very strange ownership structure if we look at the construction site. The port will serve neither local nor wider regional interests, is not owned locally and belongs to an interest. Locals use small-diving ships adapted to coastal conditions, and they did not need this deep-water port. In addition, there are new harbours nearby, in Alsóőrs and other smaller settlements, in a zone that is mostly avoided by more serious sailboats due to shallow water. Thus, the demand did not come from the local residents or sailors, but from the investors' side. However, they are not just those I wanted to draw your attention to by the honourable Parliament. The investor is Előny Kft., represented by gentlemen named Gábor Deák, Egon Kecskés and István Heves, whose name had been used in the press in connection with the privatisation of the ÁNTSZ-labor network. According to the press, Euro-Labor Invest Kft. bought it with their help. In 2006, during the Gyurcsány government - I say this only in order not to take this as an attack - the labs were worth 48 million forints, according to the chief medical officer, the instrument park alone was worth 750 million forints. At that time, however, the state undertook to pay more than HUF 500 million to redundant workers, allowing this business to reach a net turnover of 1.6 billion in the first year of these assets. So we are talking about such a group of investors, so that at the time, the contract project manager of the ÁNTSZ was Mr Deák, who registered this company, and Kecskés's biography shows that he was involved in the privatisation of the ÁNTSZ laboratories and the development of related investment projects. Isn't it easy to make good investment projects when you have easy access to state assets? Gábor Deák was also involved in the management of HospInvest, which bankrupted the Eger hospital. With this circle, the Orbán Cabinet proclaiming a moral change of regime would not have much to do to make a deal, and it would not have much to do to look for any business on Lake Balaton, but unfortunately, as we often experience in the system of national cooperation, money does not smell. Thus, interestingly, one of the creditors of the whole development is Előny Kft. Béla Szemerey, the billionaire cousin of the President of the Central Bank of György Matolcsy, whose board member is Tamás Szemerey. Of course, we wouldn't be surprised at that; it's something to be amazed at by those who believe in tales. Where public goods are consumed, public money is used to gain a huge private profit, there is always the confidence of a leading government politician and the interest of President Matolcsy at the moment. There is obviously a question of how this could have been done, how they could have given the permits to do so, and what further action will be taken now that disaster management has begun procedures. What can we expect? I would like your opinion on this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given on behalf of the Government by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-3	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is not the first time that the port construction in Balatonfenyves has been included in the correspondence of the various wallets and your correspondence, or in Parliament. The National Transport Authority shall carry out its port authorisation tasks within the limits of its statutory powers in its area of competence. In the case of port authorisation, the administrative authority shall exercise its administrative powers. Before I go into detail, allow this House to lay down the general rule of principle that, if the client's request complies with the relevant legal requirements, the licensing authority may not refuse to grant the authorisation with the necessary official authorisations and professional contributions. So the question is not whether I like something or not - I permit it, you don't like it; I don't like it either - but once that application meets the legal requirements and is recognised or issued by the competent authorities in their final decisions on this matter, this authorisation cannot be refused. By the way, this procedure has been going on since 2007, i.e. 7-8 years. Who were they? If you allow the House to take advantage of the opportunity given by this time: the Fejér County Directorate for Disaster Protection and the Baranya County Directorate for Disaster Protection, the Somogy County Government Office for Kaposvár district office, the district building and heritage office as a cultural heritage authority, the Somogy County Government Office for Marcal district office, the district public health institution of Balatonlelle Customer Service Office as a public health and epidemiological authority, the Ministry of Defence Authority as a military building authority at first instance, and the Mayor's Office Balatonfenyves as a judge of first instance construction and settlement planning. These authorities [[He's showing me the list.]] approximately 40 documents have been issued either an inter-governmental permit or a construction permit at the end. In the environmental issues raised by you, the competent environmental authorities have found, on the basis of the information, documentation and resolutions available, that the implementation of the planned activity, contrary to your claim, has no significant environmental impact on the individual environmental elements or their systems. [[9.10]] They did not say that there was no change, but said that there was no negative environmental impact, so there was no justification for further carrying out an environmental impact assessment. Under the rules of the administrative procedure, the decision of the authority may otherwise be challenged by appeal and judicial review may also be possible. I would like to inform the House that, in this long-standing case, no appeal has been filed against the numerous official permits issued. So, honourable Member, I do not dispute your professional or emotional attitude, nor do I argue with you that there is such an establishment who considers me useful and who is useless, but this is not a question that you like or do not like. Eight to ten authorities came to this conclusion after a number of procedures, and no one submitted any appeal against these findings or final decisions. Therefore, I ask you - to say - do not try to explain to a construction process which you do not like. This may not have won your approval, but the procedure is in order, it can be documented. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr István Tukacs, Member of the MSZP Group, called before Semmelweis Day, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As you all know, every July since 1992 is the Day of Hungarian Healthcare. This day bears the name of Ignác Semmelweis and serves to show our appreciation and respect for health care workers. Since 2010, on the proposal of Minister Miklós Réthelyi, this is a public holiday for workers in health care, even if we know that this is more of a symbolic significance, because on this day, too, they are healing, and they are trying to keep us healthy on this day. If there is something to remember about this day, it is a particularly difficult situation for health care. This is particularly difficult, because there are many problems, problems and burdens on health care and the shoulders of health workers who do their work out of vocation, love of work, respect for patients, sometimes under very unworthy circumstances. So Semmelweis Day tells them, but it doesn't tell those who are no longer here, who are somewhere in Europe looking for prosperity as a doctor or a professional. Semmelweis Day won't tell them, but it's for them. You could call for them if we told you to come home, because there's a reason. Departure does not decrease, and a lot of people are considering making a living elsewhere because of unworthy circumstances and impossible wages. For the sake of Semmelweis Day, we need to talk about the fact that in this healthcare system, in which we are healing or trying to stay healthy, there is a system of gratuity money which corrupts the relationship between a doctor and a doctor, a doctor and a patient, a doctor and a professional, creating unworthy conditions. I know that the majority of the government has already withdrawn the initiative to make the gratuity money legal, yet it can not be said about the current practice of having a bad relationship between a doctor and a doctor, because one receives and the other does not; the relationship between a doctor and a professional is bad, because one receives more and the other does not; between a doctor and a patient, because the patient believes that it is necessary to buy better care or a sense of better care. And, of course, all health professionals feel the lack of money, the impossible circumstances and the fact that people who want to cure them work in hospitals or institutions, outpatient care or other conditions. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It doesn't help if we just say that we want to make things better with some money. Healthcare workers demand 50 percent wage development and 100 percent in the foreseeable future; this claim can be supported. They say that there should be about 100-120 billion in healthcare right now to make the system work; yes, this is an eligible demand, and I think that in the shadow of Olympic Dreams and Congo stadiums, this claim is even more eligible, as they can see it. When we talk about the need for concepts, I confirm once again that the MSZP believes that healthcare is a national matter, one of the few cases that cannot be managed every four years or every eight years by dragging it back and forth. It should be agreed with the profession, with the representation, and the policy itself should also be agreed where this otherwise said free, not actually, a solidarity-based system, but a lack of solidarity. This is a national matter, of which there are very few; education, let's say, could be classified as a pension system. Well, what, then, prevents the government from having a concept instead of the legislative proposals of mosaic governance, lost ideas, smuggled in, and later filled with government decrees? There is a law before Parliament that has no substance; there are principles, but we do not know what will become of it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, I think it would be timely to talk about Semmelweis Day, if it is a national matter, then let us act together for it. Thank you very much for listening, Mr President.
u2015-06-30-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Before I respond to what you have said, let me also say that on Semmelweis Day and on other days, all the 95,000 people who work in hospitals, who work in rescue, who work in GP practice, or wherever in health care, are honoured - on Semmelweis Day and other days - because they really do what they do out of vocation, saving human lives, preserving human health. I think we all know that one of the most important professions someone can choose, and almost everyone sooner or later for different reasons, but they will be entrusted with their care, so it doesn't matter what circumstances and dedication they work under. That's why they should be honoured for their work. As regards the proposals put forward by the Member, we have repeatedly not heard a particular socialist proposal on health, since Hungary rejected the earlier ones not only here in Parliament but also in referendums: both the visit fee and the hospital daily allowance have been abolished, swept away by a referendum, and the socialist government as well. [[9.20]] What the socialists have offered Hungary in the field of health has failed in a referendum, and no one has chosen that system; thank God, fortunately, because otherwise, with the privatisation of health, HospInvest and its associates, we could probably only look at bankruptcy issues in some kind of ruins of Hungarian health care, but it certainly wouldn't have brought us forward. In particular, it is discapitating when the Member requires an immediate 50 percent wage increase and a mid-term wage doubling when it was the socialists who took a month's wages from all health workers in 2008-2009. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Did you give it back? You didn't give it back!]] In other words, the wages of healthcare workers have been reduced by 8 percent. And while they're down by eight percent, they're expecting a 100 percent increase. Nevertheless, after taking over the country's governance in 2010, the government sought to launch wage increases, not only in the case of teachers or law enforcement workers, but also in the case of healthcare workers. That's why we were able to provide 95,000 people, doctors, nurses and everyone with an average 24 percent wage increase of 76 billion forints. But we also put extra resources into the debt settlement of hospitals, precisely to ensure that the conditions under which doctors, nurses, are as safe as possible. That's how we managed to pay off all the hospital debts. You know that this represents a total of 6212 suppliers and 194 thousand invoices, so the government has evened out in the first months of the year, so it is easier for people in charge of managing hospitals now. As regards the provision of conditions, the development, as you yourself have said, in many cases the conditions are difficult, and we have to admit that in many cases the conditions are really difficult within hospitals: you know that in recent years there has been 500 billion HUF development in hospitals regarding the purchase of various instruments, the renovation of buildings and the construction of new buildings. Honourable Congressman, I will respectfully follow you when you say an era when there has been a development in health care worth more than HUF 500 billion, ever since 1990. You can say that time period now, you can send it by SMS, Viberen, WhatsAppon, e-mail, in any way, I look forward to it, and name the time when the volume of health improvements was worth more than HUF 500 billion. That's what our past four or five years have achieved. I think it's a record since 1990. Of course, it is possible to demand more development in Hungary, obviously we would all be happy to have more development in health care, but I do not think you will find a time when it would have been bigger. As for the problem of medical emigration: this is an old problem. The emigration of doctors and nurses in Hungary was a problem not only after 2010 but also before 2010. That is why we introduced the wage increase, which is why we launched free vocational training programmes, which is why we introduced the residency support programme, which of course could have been introduced earlier, and then they would have reported a solution to this problem earlier, but we were able to introduce it after 2010, and 2500 residents were involved. This is already extended to specialists. These are serious billions, however, to see how much extra benefits we can give them. It's not the hospitals that pay for it. We pay their benefits centrally. As a result, the rate of medical emigration started to decline in 2012-13, while for nurses in 2013-14. So the trend of increasing migration has finally reversed, although it remains a problem. But the government's extra resources to health, for example, this year is 6 percent more than last year, next year in the E Fund more than 50 billion more than this year, so it can bring the future of health in a positive direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the KDNP Group, MEP László Szászfalvi applied for a speech before the agenda:. Hurrah, it is summer! It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-06-30-9	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Yes, hurrah, summer is here, at least for many people it is time for vacations, rest periods for young people, students or even families, pensioners and elderly people. After the change of system, for a long time, many have had a dream of holiday. In particular, there has been a lack of a predictable, stable state aid scheme, which is primarily an opportunity for disadvantaged families, children or the elderly. A few years ago, the government decided to make a radical change in this area, even with the European Commission, to engage in conflicts during the transformation of the cafeteria system in order to enforce the interests of Hungarian people and families against foreign multinationals, who have taken billions of profits out of the country for years. This government decision resulted in the establishment of the Erzsébet programme, which is an unprecedented government, state, social and family support programme at European level. It is no coincidence that the Erzsébet programme received the award of the European Association of Large Families. Dear House, Four years ago, the government set the goal of providing people in need with a reduced holiday and a relaxing opportunity. It achieves this goal by establishing a social holiday programme called the Erzsébet programme. On 6 July 2012, the Parliament adopted the Act on the Erzsébet programme, which was established in order to revive the traditions of St. Elizabeth, building on the creation of the resources associated with it and on social solidarity. The Erzsébet programme is operated by the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. Thanks to this program, there is finally a camping, recreation and social program in Hungary that has not existed in the last 25 years. Between 2012-14, the Erzsébet programme provided holiday, recreation and camping opportunities for more than 400,000 people, including more than 300,000 families, children and adults living in large families. Between 2012 and 2014, 200,000 children participated in the camping, last year 55 thousand children, this year about 100 thousand children are offered the opportunity of the Erzsébet programme. Dear fellow Members, The Erzsébet programme is not only about the recreation and camping of families, pensioners, people with disabilities or children in social need, but also about the values of Hungary, the Hungarian territory across the border. The Erzsébet programme also provides for the camping of at least 3,000 Hungarian children from Transcarpathia this year. Dear Parliament, However, if I was talking about vacations, we also need to talk about children who cannot get to these programs. We need to think about them and help families who also have problems with their daily meals. The government is particularly concerned with the situation of children in need, so this year it spent 3 billion forints and spent on eating children in the summer. This year, 1485 municipalities won the Summer Children's Boarding Competition, more than 80 percent of the country's most disadvantaged settlements took advantage of the possibility of free meals. The government has gradually increased the resources for the summer meal in recent years, as children with disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantages would not have access to hot food without help during the kindergarten-school break. In 2013, the state spent 2.4 billion forints on this, last year it was 2 billion 640 million forints, and in this year we have already spent 3 billion forints. More importantly, much more than ever, some 141 thousand children in need can receive free meals during the summer holiday. Of the 77 settlements in South Somogy, in my constituency, 65 settlements applied and won more than 74 million HUF. This also proves that the government is helping disadvantaged regions. Dear Secretary of State, The KDNP parliamentary group was pleased and committed to supporting the government's efforts and decisions to create and predict an unprecedented social holiday programme in Europe, as well as a children's meal programme in addition to the school year in the summer vacation that strengthens social cohesion in the country. We are asking the government to do everything possible and to continue to support these programmes by all means so that they can work effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is always a success story when we can report on the Elizabeth Programme here, within the walls of Parliament, as the number of children, large families, people with disabilities, workers in social institutions or those in need who can participate in the Elizabeth Programme is growing year after year. Some of these young people probably wouldn't have made it to vacation this year or earlier, and perhaps they hadn't been to Lake Balaton in their lifetime, but the Erzsébet programme has created this opportunity. [[9.30]] As the Member pointed out, so far the Elizabeth programme has given 400 000 people a preferential opportunity, and this is likely to reach 600 thousand by the end of this year. What was the situation in 2010? Of which we were now able to take 400,000 people - half of which, as children, 200,000 people - to children's camps - three French companies have taken this total amount out of the country, and its management is likely to have a luxury vacation with this money. But if I add together that these three companies, let's say, if 10-10 people are in charge of each company, that is 30 people, if 30 of them went on vacation or bought various luxurious products, we were able to take 400 thousand Hungarian people - 200,000 of them young Hungarians and school students - for a week's summer vacation. I think this is also a good indicator of the stakes of elections in 2010 and 14 as Hungary's national interest has finally come to the fore after the former socialist period, which privatized everything in the hands of foreigners. And the distribution of these holiday vouchers, which is not an operation or enterprise that requires much investment, or does not require much technical knowledge - which is essentially the production of aftermarket money and can be done with a few production lines - well, the result of this distribution does not flow out of the country year by year, taking many, many billion forints out to France, as they were French companies, but is useful here in Hungary. It has developed a whole new type of social responsibility programme. That is why the Member has received the award he also referred to, the award of the European family members, because it is exemplary in Hungary that we use such a result, the result of the distribution of food vouchers here in Hungary for social purposes. We have created a new social benefit, providing the most difficult groups of young people, families and singles and everyone else with a discount holiday or swimming opportunity, especially for pensioners, by not taking money from anyone else, keeping only the profits pumped out of the country here, and creating an opportunity for hundreds of thousands of programs. This is a fundamental difference in attitude as to why the socialists will never be able to do such a thing, nor will they be able to give social benefits to other Hungarian people from the fruits of the Hungarian people's work in Hungary, because they will always overtake the interests of the Hungarian people of foreign, large companies, so in 25 years they have proved that they are unable to do so, but Fidesz-KDNP has proved in a few years that it is capable of doing so. Ten weeks until August 28th, the period during which the Elizabeth camps last. We try to offer a meaningful time to all young people in Balatonberény, Fonyódliget, Zánkán. There were 80 types of labels they could choose from. For a thousand forints, for three days and two thousand forints, everyone can go to a camp for six days. I think anyone who knows the camp prices can see that these two thousand forints are ridiculously low. There are craft camps, sports camps, sports professions, concerts, theatre performances, dance houses, excursions, adventure park, dog therapy programs, folk games, professional lectures, drug prevention lectures, discussion about faith, environmental protection; so I think there are a lot of programs. All I wanted to do was demonstrate that it was not just a babysitter, child care, and several healthy meals a day, but that it was really meaningful programs that, we hope, they could talk to their friends for weeks. It is important that Erzsébet camp across the border also opened at Ivo's feet at Harghita Madaras. Hundreds of thousands of young people have turned around here as well. This year, we opened a sub-programme for the Elizabeth Programme specifically for young Transcarpathians. Three thousand young Transcarpathians between the ages of 8-14 visit Hungary for a week. Last week the first tour began, on the last day, on Friday, they were here in Parliament. I myself have escorted them around here in part of Parliament. As I asked, they enjoyed it very much, and would be happy to come back to the next Elizabeth camp this year, even next year. I do not think there is a need to justify in Parliament why it is particularly important to open a sub-programme for young Hungarians and children in Transcarpathia. We trust that this will make them forget some of the horrors or some of the deprivation they need to live. But we also have 1,200 children from the Highlands, Transylvania, Vojvodina, Croatia and Slovenia. There's an Elizabeth Daycare camp for 15,000 kids. It costs the parents 500 forints a week here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] four meals, a meaningful pastime for students. The number of the summer meals was presented by the congressman. I think the budget will cover that, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. To speak before the agenda from the Jobbik Group, Mr Gábor Vona, Head of Group, came forward: after 40 years - Jobbik's signature collection action was successfully completed. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-30-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There are two types of national consultation. One does not want to solve the problem, only to dominate the communication space and use public money for party policy purposes. This is your national consultation. The other, finding a problem or a group of problems, looking for solutions, meets people, listens to them, asks for their opinion and asks for their support for the solution proposal. That was our solution. This was our national consultation, if you will. Many people today are searching for the secret to Jobbik's success. That's just it: we meet people the most, we listen to them the most, and we give people's opinions the most, which is why in the last few months we have launched our signature collection action, which ended with 200,000 signatures. Some of these came in online, and most of them came in our booths. We asked for people's opinions and support on four issues. One is the free internet, the other is the guarantee of Hungarian neutrality in war conflicts, the third is the suppression of immigration, including the restoration of border guards and the closure of camps, and the fourth is the extension of the possibility of retirement after 40 years of employment for men. Obviously, if such a signing-collection action, if you like it, ends a national consultation, then we need to draw the balance, honestly whether this initiative has been successful, and I can say that, thank God, this initiative has been clearly successful, and here I am thinking not only of a large number of people signing the questions, a large number of people supporting Jobbik's position all over the country, but also of the fact that we have managed to put serious pressure on the government in most of the questions. And is there any greater success for an opposition party than to see that the ruling parties, although they are superior to the parliamentary assembly, are on the government, yet they are forced to accept the opinion of the opposition party, to see it, and if they do not admit it, or at least at some level show it in the operation of the government? I think that the Jobbik for the past five years is a clear proof that we are able to thematicise from opposition; we are also able to steer you from opposition to, say, the left-wing opposition parties, who do not have a meaningful programme or a vision for the future of Hungary. If we look at the four questions, then of course the picture is more nuanced. Let's start with the free internet question. I think that the success of the pressure exercise can be clearly demonstrated here, because Tamás Deutsch is trying to prove the Fidesz certificate in this case. Looks like XX. Fidesz of the century also saw that the 21st century The 21st century is about broadening Internet accessibility, and the 21st century is about increasing Internet accessibility. Of course, Jobbik of the century took this position from the very beginning. Unfortunately, with regard to the issue of war neutrality, I can no longer report such successful pressure, we have not managed to prevent you from leading Hungary into the war against ISIS completely irresponsiblely, the consequences of which we may not even know yet. The situation in Ukraine is also very tense, and it is very feared that even here, unfortunately, events are turning negative, so I ask you to continue to consider our absence from these wars again. I don't have to explain immigration. The issue of immigration is now almost everything. On the other hand, I would suggest that we discuss this not at internal political and political level, but, as my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát has already suggested, that we set up a five-party political task force, and that this issue be managed and supervised, and that we do not make this truly serious problem an internal political playground. Finally, the fourth issue is the possibility for men to retire after 40 years of employment. Well, that's what was most popular about our stands, and that's the question that you reject most from our experience so far. However, you should consider it, because since 2011, Hungary has opened up this opportunity for women, and I think that it is absolutely important for men to have this opportunity, too, in terms of equal opportunities. Consider, for example, the mortality data: we meet with quite terrible numbers. Every fourth man dies before he reaches retirement age. For a man in his 30's, his life expectancy is lower than his retirement, so he probably won't live to be retired. But there are also economic grounds for it, because four out of ten people under 55 have only jobs, and most of them are unemployed, and if they have a job, but they lose it, they have no chance of finding a job. And at this age, people can't even wander abroad. A person who has a job is often barely able to care for him, his health continues to deteriorate, and in part he is taking away the possibility of going to work from a young person. [[9.40]] So I could give you a lot of reasons to back that up. I would ask you to hear the voices of the 200,000 people and their families and to continue a substantive debate on the possibility of retirement after 40 years of employment for men as well. I ask for your openness in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, This is not the first time this issue has been raised here in Parliament. Jobbik, if you think it is important to have the opinion of 200,000 people you have met and have signed these signatures or contacted you about this, then I would ask you and everyone else to have the number of people who have been repeatedly kicking this, about one million people who have expressed their views in the national consultation, their opinions, if not five times more, but at least as much respect, and what people are saying in the national consultation launched by the government, then support it in Parliament with their votes, because this direction is clear. Jobbik also has a clear direction: it has a huge change of direction, because for four years we haven't heard anything like Jobbik, but now they've started an incredible offensive on pensioners. We know your speech in the autumn, from Tamás Sneider, who spoke at a former forum about the fact that it is impossible to win elections today without pensioners, so it must be like a small child, not like a Gypsy criminal - I quote his word here literally - so it is a good thing that the Yellers can say what they think, but we good politicians - I quote him again - have to be sympathetic in communication to pensioners as well. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that, for the fourth time, Mr Sneider is not speaking on this subject, but rather on this subject by Mr Group leader. But you have obviously uncovered in your Jobbik Autumn speech that this is not a real obligation to appreciate, but a quick change of direction, if you will. So you didn't mean it when you came into Parliament five years ago in a Hungarian Guard uniform, nor do you mean it when you've been collecting signatures from pensioners in recent months, because one or another can be cut off from the party's political direction with a pair of scissors, and as I see now, if it's not forbidden, it's threatened with a pruning scissor who follows the previous course, it's not impossible that two years from now, those following this course will face the same scissors within Jobbik. It is well known that when we voted on this here in December 2010 between Parliament's walls, Jobbik did not support the government parties' proposal to allow women to retire after 40 years of employment. It wasn't much of a law, it wasn't much of a salad law, I looked at it again, it was 28 paragraphs... [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Small salad! The president's ringing the bell.]] It was small, that's right, it was 28 sections in total. And since then, Jobbik has not told us what was in this, unsatisfying and unsupportable point, which has prevented women from retiring after 40 years, because if you did not support the 40s of Women [[Dóra Dúró: You voted against our amendments!]] , how credible of you to be the, Men 40. But there are more than that, honourable Member, which, let us say, your better fellow Member has said in this Parliament's debate about the Women's 40. I quote his right-wing fellow Member:, I understand: it is about the early retirement of women with 40 years of working relationship - I mean the proposal - just like all the proposals submitted by Fidesz in the last six months, swimming in a beautiful, shiny light at first sight, like the orange in the cows in winter, but when we take it home after shopping, we notice when we open it out of its shell that only a little bit of it can be digested. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] So, a little uvick, but it's like a rotten orange, the Women's 40 is your fellow Member. I quote another part:. We are now facing a new, significantly unfair law - called unfair. Women 40, by your better fellow Members. The goal can be described as beautiful again - then obviously the pull-off again. But the point I would like to make is that this system is obviously as unfair as the single-key tax system. At that time, you had such a negative opinion about the 40, they said it in words, they said it with their votes. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We want to eliminate discrimination!]] They did not support the introduction of this, and now you are going to stand before their own public, their own internal public, and you are collecting signatures for a proposal which you have largely not supported four years ago, within the walls of Parliament. I see there's been a lot of effort in Jobbik to change direction, but you've been here in Parliament for five years, you've already got reports of your comments, your votes, and you certainly have to face them. Jobbik is no longer a zero-kilometer party, it already has a past within Parliament, and this is a matter that puts a strain on your future and your communication. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-16	Secretary of State, I am obliged to warn you and remind you not to use a phrase that is offensive to an ethnicity, even in the form of a quote. Please keep this in mind next time. [[Ancient Novak: Today should be ruled out! A statement from Jobbik: Home from the house!]] I see that Congressman President Novak would like this to happen. [[Previous Novak: I don't like double standards!]] We'll continue. Before the agenda, Mr István Jakab, vice-president of Parliament, applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group with the title of the chances of the countryside. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-06-30-17	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, we remembered the farmers who were destroyed during the tournaments, and I think it is time for us to do a reckoning on Paul's day, because very often between the walls of this House - and I try, Mr President, to avoid harsh, offensive expressions - to express terms which, I think, are unworthy not only of the House, but also of the Hungarian farmers. I believe that if we are to have a genuine, serious dialogue on the situation in the countryside and to think responsibly about the countryside, the rural people and through them all the citizens of the country, then we must have a meaningful dialogue. Dear Parliament, If we look at the performance of the agricultural economy, if we look at the performance of the agricultural economy, we need to see that the agricultural output is now more than HUF 2400 billion compared to 2010. This exceeds 43 percent in 2010. It's almost 50 percent growth. Somehow we'll forget about it in the walls of the House. The fact that the proportion of people working in agriculture has increased by more than 10 percent is no one's guess. In terms of investments, the value of investments increased by 50 percent. But perhaps if I could come up with a more talkative example: our exports reached more than EUR 8 billion, the increase is close to 50 percent compared to 2010. Why did I bring these here? Because, Honourable Parliament, the basis for this was the measures that have been taken in the past five years. The first thing I need to mention is the land law. There has been a lot of debate, there is, and there will be, between the walls of the House about the law on land, but there is one thing that cannot be taken away: today, the land law in Europe best protects farmers in former communist countries. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, you're not.]] The Hungarian farmer is best protected. No one can argue that it is being copied in Europe today, that the Polish land law is now in front of the Polish Parliament, because the moratorium is about to expire there. And yes, the Hungarian land law is the standard of how to protect the interests of Hungarian farmers. I must say one more thing here: it was important to exclude the speculators, it was important to give the local farmers a chance in the interest of farmers. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that there can be laws, laws, and the protection of the land, but that the farmer can only keep it effectively. This is why measures have been put in place to give farmers the chance of competitive farming, for example, by setting up the National Chamber of Agriculture. Why didn't you notice, and no one in the House said that in the case of new EU funds, they knew so quietly [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] to submit a single request that a single negative indicator has not been mentioned? [[9.50]] You didn't meet a single negative sign in the newspapers, the villagers serve. Why? Because with this law, we have created that through the National Agricultural Chamber, the countryside is under economic control, and I think it will be good to keep that in mind in the future. I brought this up because, in the case of the land, we are still arguing a lot about the programme of the farmers between the walls of the House. But there is one thing you need to see: that it is not only a goal of access to use, but we are asking the government to go as far as possible in the direction that farmers can acquire not only use but also permanent ownership because this is the basis for predictable, stable farming in the long term. It's very important that we don't let this out of our sight. And while I'm at it, there's only one thought, Mr. President. I would ask my fellow Members to discuss it here, within the walls of the House, but do not go behind our backs to Brussels, because it will destroy all Hungarian farmers. [[Mr. Novak intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[Szabó Timea, who consulted in the lines of the MSZP:]] I ask that Mr István Tukacs and Mr István Józsa take their place. Fidesz fellow Members are also asked to take their seats. Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, replied to the speech by the Vice-President. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The other day we celebrated Peter, Paul's day, a sacred day for all farmers, for the start of the harvest [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a traditional holiday. It is advisable to pause for a moment, to give thanks, and to gather strength for the work ahead. That is why I thank you with great respect for the opportunity to take account and exchange views on the results and prospects of Hungarian agriculture. A detailed analysis of the situation and a nuanced presentation of the vision would go beyond the time frame, so I would only respond to a few topics that you have mentioned that are of particular importance to the agricultural policy of the government. Among these, the new land law deserves first place, which, using European examples, has created one of the continent's strictest regulations in order to really keep our national treasure, the land under national jurisdiction. Not everyone agreed with the goals, the path to implementation, but the time since then has proven us. Although there were children's diseases, the host society received substantially positive provisions reflecting their values, which passed this test. Precisely because the interests of many insiders and foreign speculators are being violated by the law, it was expected that those involved in the European Union would try to make this law impossible. Fortunately, in this case and over the years, the government has expected reliable allies on many other issues, such as the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Associations. Since the change of regime, Magosz has been a committed representative of the farmers' interests for 25 years, and has successfully worked together with the agricultural portfolio on priority topics since 2010, such as the setting of land policy goals, the priority support for family farms, the renewal of the EU aid scheme's domestic regulations, the re-regulation of cereal contracts, the involvement of farmers in the growth credit programme, the facilitation of legitimate land use certification or the management of the risks of exceptional weather conditions. I am pleased that last Friday we were able to renew our strategic partnership, formed in the context of the experiences of the same principles and cooperation in previous years, including in a treaty the intention to pursue a joint-thinking rural policy that underpins common success. At the initiative of and in cooperation with Magos, another far-reaching Hungarian agricultural law will be adopted, creating the main interest representation body of Hungarian farmers, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economics, which is a public body with a broad municipal authority. It is already apparent that the new Chamber represents the economic interests much more intensively than its predecessor, and although it continues to build from the bottom, it can function effectively as a single legal entity in the centralised system. Through compulsory chamber membership, the organization embraces the whole verticum in the spirit of the approach from the production land to the table, and, by expanding its tasks, provides useful services to its members, representing their interests both at home and in Brussels. The performance of agriculture is constantly increasing. In 2014 he reached another record, with HUF 2410 billion in output, which exceeded 42.9 percent in the current price in 2010. In terms of long-term development and improved competitiveness, it is important that investments increased by 53.5 percent over the period 2010-2014. The irrigated areas also increased, exceeding 104 thousand hectares in 2013. Turning to the prospects for the future of agriculture, I can assure you that, in the context of land law and other matters, we will fight to the end for our right in front of the EU's bodies, even in the crossfire of some sanda attacks, which often start from home. The programme for farmers is continuing, with 270 thousand public hectares of agricultural land being launched and 7500 landowners farming in the area of 600 individuals and farming organisations previously established. From 2015 onwards, the programme "More jobs in agriculture" has been launched, giving HUF 212 billion of new resources until 2020. Through the new rural development programme to be approved in Brussels, we will be able to address national problems in the coming years, such as the construction of the anti-icing system, further expansion of irrigated areas, the promotion of livestock production with the preference of young farmers, the promotion of long-term generational change, the improvement of food safety. Mr President, Allow me to thank you from here, too, that Magos represents the voice of Hungarian farmers from here in Parliament and represents their interests. I wish you good health and good luck in your work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-20	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine, because we continue our work with decisions. The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services follows a series of steps. T/4682. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. The amendments 3 and 5 are in substance linked to the proposals made by Mr Nándor Gúr, and we therefore decide to maintain them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 55 votes in favour, 122 against and 2 abstentions. I am now putting Amendment 4 to the vote, which is also the motion of Mr Nándor Gúr. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 119 against and 23 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4682. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 119 votes in favour, 35 against and 28 abstentions. [[10.00]] Next up is the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4787 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 143 votes in favour, 34 against and 5 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 CVI on state assets. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5046 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 118 votes in favour, 59 against and four abstentions. It is now up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation T/4889. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must decide to maintain an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 119 against and 26 abstentions. Since Parliament has not maintained a proposal for an amendment, nor has there been a proposal to amend it, we are now deciding on the submitted text of the bill. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4889. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 145 votes, 30 against and 7 abstentions. H/5048 on the establishment of national strategic objectives to promote effective action against violence against relationships. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. However, in the light of a request for a Fraction, we also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. I would like to put the amendment number 3 to the vote, also by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 118 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 142 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/5048 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 143 votes to three, with 37 abstentions. It follows the decision and the final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending Act X of 2006 on cooperatives. The submission is T/5126. Available to all of them on the IT network. T/5126/5 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report is T/5126/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5126/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 34 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5126/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 147 votes to 33, with no abstentions. The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws and, in this context, a final vote. The submission was made in T/4891. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4891/10. T/4891/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Article 4 (4) of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2, 5 and 6 of the Jobbik Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 118 against and 28 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 30 votes in favour, 147 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 5 is also proposed by Mr Staudt Gábor. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 31 votes in favour, 149 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Mr Staudt Gábor. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 31 votes in favour, 151 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4891/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes to 34 with 8 abstentions. [[10.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4891/14. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 147 votes in favour, 34 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. We now have H/5139 on the prevention of hidden party funding and the protection of trust in the institutions of the European Union. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. However, in the light of a request for action, we must decide to maintain an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No. 2, the LMP Group No. 3 and Jobbik Group No. 5, 9 and 10. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is the proposal of József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes to 121, without abstention. I am now putting to the vote Amendment 3, which is the motion of Mr András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 152 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. Amendment 5 is proposed by the predecessor Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes, 162 votes and no abstentions. Amendment 9 is also proposed by Mr President Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes to 128, without abstention. Amendment No 10 is the motion of the President of Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 155 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment and there was no amendment to the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/5139 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 120 votes in favour, 37 votes in favour and 24 votes in favour. It follows a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on debt settlement for natural persons and a final vote. The submission is T/4890. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4890/27 and T/4890/28. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of § 3, 4 and 7 of the MSZP Group, the group of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 20, 21 and 23. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 13 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 123 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that amendments 15, 3 and 21 contain alternatives. I am now putting to the vote Amendment 15, which is the motion of Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 125 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. Amendment 3 was tabled by Gergely Bárándy and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 118 votes in favour and 25 votes in favour. Amendment 21 is proposed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 126 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Amendments 4, 17 and 20 are also alternatives. Amendment 23 is excluded by Amendment 4 but can be accepted in addition to Amendments 17 and 20. Amendment No 4 was tabled by Gergely Bárándy and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 119 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. The 17th amendment was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 123 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. Amendment 20 is proposed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 126 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Amendment 23 is also proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 126 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Amendment 7 was tabled by Gergely Bárándy and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 119 votes in favour and 26 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4890/27. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 119 votes in favour, 1 votes against and 64 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4890/32. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 142 votes, 1 votes against and 41 abstentions. Next up is the 2011 CXXXII on the National University of Public Service and on higher education in administrative, police and military matters. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. [[10.20]] The submission is T/5050. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/5050/8, and its summary report T/5050/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 3 of the MSZP Group, the Group of Jobbik proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by István Hiller and Tamás Harangozó. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 2. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 42 votes, 140 votes and no abstentions. Amendment 2 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 122 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5050/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes, 41 votes and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5050/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 yeses, 66 votes not, without abstention. Next up is the 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/5053. Number 2 is available on the IT network. A summary of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/5053/6 and T/5053/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 122 votes in favour and 29 votes in favour. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5053/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes, 32 votes against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5053.9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 117 votes in favour, 36 votes in favour and 29 votes in favour. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and to the bill amending certain laws relating to public employment. The submission is T/4451. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4451/12 and T/4451/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed to maintain Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is the proposal of Nándor Gúr and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 4 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is the proposal of Nándor Gúr and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes to 123, without abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4451/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes, 38 votes and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4451/15. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 142 votes, 41 votes and one vote. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws on water management, fire protection and public services. The submission is T/4822. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4822/8, and T/4822/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now the summary changes Oh, we're deciding on a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4822/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes, 34 votes and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4822/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 119 votes in favour, 32 votes in favour and 33 abstentions. The 2011 CVI on public employment and public employment and amending other laws follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/5141. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. T/5141/8, and T/5141/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5141/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes, 42 votes against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5141/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 yeses, 64 votes not, without abstention. [[10.30]] Here comes the 2007 LXXX on asylum. T/5136. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5136 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 140 votes to 14, with 27 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to the water utility service. The submission is T/4821. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/4821/8, and its summary report T/4821/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4821/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes against, 8 against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4821/10. A single proposal. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 139 votes in favour, 40 against and 5 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 CVI on state assets. T/5144 on the amendment of Law T/5144 relating to the increase of state or municipal assets. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5144. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 121 votes in favour, 40 against and 23 abstentions. It follows from the 1997 LXXVIII on the acceleration and simplification of certain development investments in the capital and in this context on the shaping and protection of the built environment. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/5135. was available on the parliamentary IT network. T/5135/5 of the legislative committee's proposal for an amendment, and T/5135/6 of the report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5135/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes in favour, 3 against and 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5135/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 147 votes to seven, with 29 abstentions. Next up is the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of the facilities necessary for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/5044. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/5044/7. T/5044/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5044/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes against, 9 against, 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5044/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes to 10, with 33 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. Our session will continue after a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats so we can continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] We'll get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is XXXIII. Olympic Games and the XVII. Consolidated debate on the proposal for the intention to organise Paralympic Games in Budapest in 2024. I'm asking you, who among the secretary of state will represent the government. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Then please take your seats in the horseshoe. By our colleagues at Rogán Antal, Bánki Erik fideszes and Harrach Péter KDNP H/5422. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the derogation from the adopted house rule, the opening speech and the closing speech will have a total of 15 minutes, 5 minutes for the government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech - of which the minority opinion will be presented in 3 minutes - and a total of 10 minutes for the speakers of the political groups and 3 minutes for the independent representatives' speech. I now give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, the rapporteur on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a total period of 15 minutes is available to the Member to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. I'll make a note of how much the exposure was, and then I'll tell you how much time you have for the closing. I will also inform my fellow Members, since there has been a debate on this in other cases, that only the rapporteur can make a closing statement, so the government does not have a chance to close. The Government may speak at any time during the debate, but only the rapporteur can give a closing statement. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is a fantastic opportunity for Hungary to have the XXXIII. Summer Olympic Games and the XVII. You can even submit a tender for Paralympic Games. Taking into account the position of the International Olympic Committee and the principles of the Agenda 2020 programme adopted by the International Olympic Committee, we can even say that there is a good chance that it can apply for the organisation of the 2024 Olympic Games. I say that it is an outstanding opportunity, because there is a social cooperation behind the initiative, which is exemplary, and which, unfortunately, is rare in today's Hungarian public life as a white raven. On 6 February 2015, the Hungarian Olympic Committee adopted the decision, the unanimous decision of the General Assembly to apply for the Olympic Games, and in this they also found partners, especially from the Budapest General Assembly, which, as a director city, supported this initiative almost unanimously, with 1 vote against. They started a social dialogue in which various associations - by name: the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the National Association of Hungarian Entrepreneurs and Employers, the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, the Budapest and Pest Chamber of Engineers, the Association of Hungarian Hotels and Restaurants, the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs - and the Olympic Protection Board held forums in different parts of the country where all interested parties were warmly invited in the framework of social dialogue, and in which consultation they covered all the details that might arise in connection with the settlement of the Olympics. Let's look at what gives us a real chance, why there is an opportunity for the Hungarian competition to win! The Agenda 2020 programme was adopted by the International Olympic Committee in December 2014 in the framework of a reform programme to organise the Olympic Games in the coming years, much cheaper than before, in particular in the light of the social resilience and the priority aspects of environmental protection. Perhaps it is well known to all of us that, in 2008, after the Beijing Olympics, there was a turn in the thinking of the leaders of the International Olympic Committee, which expressed the idea of a more modest organisation. Thomas Bach, the German president of the International Olympic Committee, carried this programme practically as his own programme and managed to achieve that the Presidency and the General Assembly of the International Olympic Committee adopted it by a decisive majority in December of last year. When Thomas Bach was asked what the point of this reform was, he literally said: "The Olympic Agenda 2020 is one of his intentions to create opportunities for small countries to apply for the Olympics. The Olympic movement is universal, and we cannot accept a situation where only about 20 countries in the world can organise an Olympics. We need to be more open, we need to allow diversity, and we need to explicitly embrace it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When the president of the International Olympic Committee was questioned about Budapest's chances, he said that Hungary has made great progress in the field of sports infrastructure. In recent years, sport has played a major role in education and education. Hungarians love sports and athletes, so you have all the ingredients for a strong tender if you put all this together properly, as there are many existing facilities that could already be included in the program. Budapest is an experienced director and has just received the right to conduct the FINA World Water Championship. For example, I took part in the World Championship in Budapest when I was an active contestant, and I left with very good memories. I think that if all of these values of Budapest and Hungary were to be put together well with the support of the people and the government, this could be a very strong proposal, which could be very sympathetic to the members of the International Olympic Committee. So Thomas Bach, President of the International Olympic Committee, believes that Budapest has the chance to apply for the right to an Olympic settlement in 2024. Let us see whether Hungary is capable of organising such an Olympics at all, because it is our primary responsibility, as Members of Parliament, to decide on the eligibility of such a programme, taking into account the country's capacity to bear the burden. Thank you very much personally and on behalf of my fellow Members for the work of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Olympic Protection Board during the preparation of the Olympic tender, and in particular for the study commissioned by PricewaterhouseCoopers from the international company, since the research of the company, the analysis of the company and the data revealed by the company will help us to make a sound decision, taking into account the performance of the Hungarian budget and taking into account the aspects of Hungarian society. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this study shows that Hungary is not only able, but also able to organise such a world-class event. [[10.50]] In terms of the economic benefits of the Olympics: the surplus income of the national economy is estimated at more than HUF 1100 billion from the collection of toys and from the tax and contribution revenues from the investment in toys. All the investments required for the Olympics, which are borne by the budget, do not exceed HUF 774 billion. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Hungarian public finances can realise some HUF 326 billion in profit and surplus revenue from the organisation of games if we can accompany the production of games and the investments needed to organize the games with sufficient thoroughness, rigour and serious control. I am convinced that the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Protective Board are a sufficient guarantee that the Olympic Games can be organised in a completely open, transparent and transparent way, and that the investments needed to host the Olympic Games will be sustainable developments, taking into account the environmental aspects, by means of which talented young Hungarian athletes, Hungarian average people, and Hungarian competition sports can be suitable locations, so that the entire Hungarian society can use the facilities that will be created in connection with the Olympic developments. Basically, we are talking about infrastructure improvements that are necessary for the capital and for the settlement cities. Only by bringing these developments together and focusing on the organisation of the 2024 games would these investments be developed and made. I think that the results of Hungarian athletes speak for themselves. The fact that Hungary can be among the ten most effective nations with its population of 10 million is among the 206 countries in the world is a fantastic foundation that can be expected in the successful evaluation of a tender. The numerous successes of Hungarian athletes provide career opportunities for many Hungarian children and young Hungarians, as they have the opportunity to break out of the social classes from which they can only do this through learning or sports. I think that the Olympics, in this sense, can also be a strong link to full social convergence. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that the Hungarian Olympic Committee made a well-founded decision when it decided to apply for the 2024 games, and the general assembly of Budapest's capital also made a prudent and thorough decision. I am very pleased that all parties there have given their support to the Olympics, including government and opposition parties. Indeed, they considered the possibility of settling the Olympics as a national case, a very important step in Hungary's rise, which is in the interest of all Hungarian politicians regardless of political affiliation or party standing. I would like to ask my fellow Members here in Parliament to consider, in this spirit, that they support the decision to organise the Olympics, support the social initiative launched by the Hungarian Olympic Committee, which was supported by the Assembly of Budapest with 1 vote against, with almost unanimous majority. I am sure that if this social support, this political support exists, with the sports values that we have achieved so far, and with the performance of international and world events that Hungary has held so far, there is indeed a good chance that we can successfully apply for the new thinking of the renewed, reformed International Olympic Committee, and on 15 September 2017 the International Olympic Committee will be able to win Hungary's competition in Lima. I would ask all my fellow Members to take this into account and to support it along the way, even if they have any concerns about the settlement. Let's not miss such an excellent opportunity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-22	Thank you very much. I would like to inform Mr Erik Bánki, as rapporteur, that he will have a deadline of 4 minutes and 10 seconds for the closing. I'm going to ask if one of the Secretarys of State would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. István Simicskó reporting.]] I give the floor to Secretary of State István Simicskó in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government also believes that the country has a historic chance. We all know that an Olympic event, which is the world's most prestigious sporting event, is a huge opportunity for Hungary, but it is also a huge responsibility for all of us. I would like to say here in Parliament that an Olympic tender must, obviously, always be decided by the applicants first. As Mr Erik Bánki mentioned here, the Assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee has made this decision, and the Budapest Assembly has also made this decision. The General Assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee unanimously supported the submission of the tender, and the Metropolitan Assembly also decided by overwhelming majority to submit the tender, together with the Socialists voted in favour of Jobbik, Fidesz, and even PM representatives. There was only one vote against in the Metropolitan Assembly. This shows, in any case, that the capital city as a candidate is in favour and that we must take this into account. We have seen that, quite rightly, there has been a social debate in the country. There were very valuable professional and political debates throughout the country on the issue of the submission of the Olympic tender. We hope that the parliamentary resolution before us will be the resolution adopted by the Parliament. The Government will, of course, adopt, support and implement this resolution by the Metropolitan Assembly and Parliament. We see that this proposal for a decision can be a good basis for the preparation of applications and for the proposal itself. We know that in December 2014, the International Olympic Committee adopted the reform of economic Olympics, Agenda 2020. This is a reform step, a large-scale idea for the renewal of the Olympic movement, with which the International Olympic Committee wants to broaden its access to the Olympics. It gives medium-sized cities a chance, it gives Budapest a chance, it gives Hungary a chance, if you like it, almost invites Hungary to apply, to consider whether it is worth applying. The Hungarian Government will, of course, support this proposal. Yesterday's committee meeting also convinced us that even though we have debates, we can have debates, because it is a great responsibility to organise an Olympics, but we consider that it is worth living with this chance, because the organisation of such a sporting event is a serious opportunity for Hungary. But I must say, it is also a serious opportunity for the Hungarian nation to join together with such a large enterprise, such a great objective. This can bring the nation together, settle our human relations, and we can definitely come out of this opportunity in a positive way. Therefore, the government will accept and implement the Parliament's resolution proposal. In this spirit, I ask the Members of Parliament to support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and then the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. A total time frame of six minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Committee on 29 June 2015, XXXIII was discussed. Olympic Games and the XVII. T/5422 on support for the intention to tender paralympic games in 2024 in Budapest. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed Mr Pál Völner's proposal for an amendment, which contained clarification of codification and language positioning. The Commission adopted this proposal by 23 votes in favour, 3 against. As we have heard in the author's exposé, the International Olympic Committee is the CXXVII. At its general meeting, it adopted the Agenda 2020 reform programme, which allows the Olympic idea to return to its roots after luxurious luxurious Olympics and provides an opportunity not only for large and rich countries to host Olympic games. [[11.00]] The Olympic traditions of Hungary, the direction of development independent of the organisation of an Olympics and the focus on the organisation of economic Olympics are all ideal circumstances that allow Budapest to apply effectively for the first time in the Central and Eastern European region. Olympic Games and the XVII. Paralympic Games 2024. The National Assembly, as Hungary's main representative body, recognizes the national uniting power of the Olympic Games, in its resolution it expresses its support for the Municipality of Budapest and the Hungarian Olympic Committee to apply for the XXXIII. Olympic Games and the 17th. Paralympic Games. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 26 votes in favour and 3 votes against. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion of the Legislative Committee is presented by Mr Zoltán Gőgös, who has a three-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-27	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The majority of Hungarians, especially 4.2 million people living in extreme poverty, do not want an Olympics, but rather European wages, rising pensions, cheaper food, health care without waiting lists, and evenly available cheaper education for everyone. Point (i) of the proposal for a decision also recognises the need for resources for health care, but we find it odd that they will want to settle this in 2024 with the benefit of the Olympics. Ladies and Gentlemen, These cases cannot wait until then, these matters must be resolved independently of this project and even before that. Since this is okay, and after these conditions have been settled in Hungary, it is possible to consider whether to organize an Olympics out of thousands of billions of forints. Ladies and gentlemen. We find it very strange - understanding this type of support for the mayors and representatives of the cities concerned - that no one takes into account the interests of millions of poor people living in the countryside, which I think should be clearly highlighted in such a decision. Furthermore, he does not notice or want to notice how the governing parties cheated us about the water world. How did the water world start? It's gonna cost 25 billion, everything's gonna be public, it's gonna be open. Now we're at 60, and it's obvious that it won't be anything else, it's not about planning and success, it's about another withdrawal. Think about the amount of the theft you can generate with these resources. We don't want to give our names to that, we're not going to give them our names. We don't want any more Garanchi cases, we don't want any laws that support this type of withdrawal. I recommend this very carefully to all my fellow Members, and I add that we have a problem, not with sport, not with the spirit of the Olympics, but also with this on the committee. The 2004 Sport Act, which we presented, also refers to the Olympics, but we do not consider the order acceptable. We cannot accept such dreams in Hungary when children are starving, and we have no idea what will happen to health care, whether there will be a doctor or nurse in 2024. Everyone's been talking about immigration lately. What will the 600,000 Hungarians who were forced abroad to do because they couldn't find a job? The Olympics would probably give us a job during construction. After that, what do you do with all those investments, what about those facilities? Ladies and gentlemen. In Hungary, resources from growth are likely to have to be reinvested, but for investments that make sense and pay back, not for non-empty stadiums and sports facilities. We will not support this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-30-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There will be a timeframe of 10-10 minutes for the factions, and independent representatives will have a total of 3 minutes. First, the speeches will be made by the Members who have signed up in writing. I will give it from the Fidesz Group to Mr István Németh Szilárd. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-29	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I'm sure you'll remember our big dream of 2002 to make the nation's capital the site of the 2016 Olympics. Then this dream of ours became the victim of a small party politics, a socialist idea of being small. For a time now, it seemed that the 2024 Hungarian Olympic competition did not become a field of party politics, a plaything. The MOB has established an apolitic, sporting support organisation, the Olympic Protection Board, in which well-known left-wing public figures also stood for the organization, dialogue and cooperation in Budapest. Then the Social Dialogue for the Olympics Motion was formed, and many here too are left-wing sentiments, yet they see the chance, the opportunity, the strength, the very serious economic revival effect of the Olympics, and even the MSZP clearly supported the tender in the Budapest Assembly. Unfortunately, today's news is already about the opposite. Many do not understand or understand the left turn, because there is no reasonable and acceptable explanation why they want to break up this national cooperation and in the spirit of the Olympic idea. Dear Parliament, I suggest we don't let small-mindedness, party politics, bad faith hang again. Today, Hungary has a government that considers sport - whether educational, recreational, recreational or even Olympic - to be a national issue, a strategic development goal for the future generation, and we are able to ensure the cooperation and support of the country, the vast majority of Parliament, and we are able to achieve cooperation and joint action. We Hungarians are a real Olympic nation. Ferenc Kemény was at the founding of the International Olympic Committee, and since 1894, the Hungarian Olympic Committee has been one of the oldest and most effective national Olympic Committees. Out of the ten most successful countries in the world, Hungary is the only country that has not yet organised an Olympics, if you like, we stand first on the result and medal table of countries that have not organised the Olympics. We were always there when we were free to choose our participation, only 1920 and 1984 were left out because of great force. The Olympics occupy a special place in the heart of the Hungarians, one of the highest honors of being Olympic champions in Hungary. In Budapest, the NOB can return to the original spirit of games according to the cheaper, sustainable Olympic expectations of Agenda 2020. Once, Antwerpen, Stockholm, Helsinki organized an Olympics, even though they were smaller cities in Budapest. We don't know if we're gonna make it, but it's worth it. We can't win a race we won't even start. We have to be modest, but we have more work to do in the fight, with Hungarian courage and ingenuity and, of course, with confidence. Now our time can finally come, this country deserves it, this Hungarian nation deserves it. Ladies and gentlemen, Csepel, as one of the main venues of the Budapest Olympics, can be a great winner of this collaboration. Not only creating jobs, boosting tourism, economic growth and improving infrastructure can be a chance, but the Olympics can also contribute to a new civil quality of life, the spiritual and spiritual renewal of Csepel. So we can be sure that Csepel supports the Olympic tender, supports the collaboration, so here today, at the place of the decision, as a member of the Csepel Parliament and president of the Hungarian Wrestling Association, and as a committed believer in domestic sport and Hungarian wrestling, and perhaps, if I may put it this way, as a passionate fan of my wrestling and birthplace, Csepel, I would like to share some more thoughts with you. If I tell you to apply for the 2024 summer Olympic Games, then I'm describing the chance of our old dream becoming a reality. Let me give you some examples of my beloved sport, wrestling, wrestling, who have often proved that there is no impossible. It is quite simply impressive what this hard-core sport has brought in the past and gives in the present. If you look at the Olympics, 19 gold, 16 silver and 19 bronze medals are our beating scale. Since the victory of Richárd Weisz in London in 1908, with the exception of one Olympics, a Hungarian wrestler could stand at one stage of the podium on each of the five-ring games. [[11.10]] There are great classics in the history of sports, the two Olympic champions in Szeklerland, Lajos Keresztes of Lower Salt and Márton Lőrincz of Koron to the other examples. There is Károly Kárpáti, who was born as Kellner Károly, and in the Berlin Olympic final he defeated the German wrestler in front of the Führer's eyes and his gross annoyance. The list of glory can be continued through Ödön Zombori, Miklós Szilvásy, Gyula Bóbis, Imre Hódos, to the wonderful Imre Polyak, the national athlete. CHAPTER XX Imre Polyák, also known as the wrestler of the century, was able to win the Olympic Championship in Tokyo for the fourth time after three Olympic silver medals in 1964. He got it because he really wanted it, and because he worked without compromise, he sweated for it. He could have gotten it because his country supported him. They worked together, they fought, they didn't give up for a moment, and the result was on the pride and glory of all Hungarians. Then I could mention the legendary double Olympic champion István Kozma, the favourite of a country, a giant everyone called Tiny; or Csaba Hegedűs, the Tusking King, the champion of Munich, the owner of the 100th Hungarian Olympic gold medal. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The great old man, the Mexican champion János Varga, broke his ribs in 1963, but he became world champion in terrible pain. The two world champions of Csepel, Lajos Rácz with a broken hand, István Kovács sprained a medal at the Olympics, because they didn't give up either, because they trusted them, too. Among you are also sitting in the benches with whom, like me, we cheered for the triumph of Ferenc Kocsis and Norbert Nagyi in Moscow, and we struggled with our tears when they played the Anthem in their honor and in the glory of Hungary. In Seoul, András Sike, then in Barcelona in 1992 the success of Attila Repka and Péter Farkas will remain memorable forever. In Athens, the home country of the Olympics, István Majoros had the laurel wreath on his head in the strictest sense of the word. Tibor Komáromi is also a three-time world champion, Olympic silver medalist from the great classics. He did not remain in debt either, for at a World Championship he fought back against his Soviet opponent for the Seoul finals, suffering from severe ankle injuries. And I remember more and more names as we advance in time: Zoltán Fodor, Tamás Lőrincz, Péter Módos, Gábor Hatos. Coins, fights, but not in vain struggles. I know, of course, that not all my fellow Members are experienced in sport, but I wanted to show you that we are recognised in the world in this area and are referred to Hungary as a wrestling power. I therefore respectfully urge my fellow Members to vote in favour of the proposal and to deal with the opportunity that may never come back. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Lukács of the MSZP Group will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-31	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, There is no debate between us that the idea of the Olympics is one of the most noble ideas in the world, and, of course, there is no discussion between us that as an event, it is extremely attractive as well as an event. We also have no debate about the fact that the whole world is looking out for a long time for the Olympics, creating investments, jobs and having a long-term impact on tourism. And we can list all these positives. Then, of course, everyone can agree that it is good for countries who can host an Olympics. It's good for those countries who are in a position to host an Olympics. But of course, if we open these questions longer, then it's not as much fun as it is because we can't really show a country or an Olympics from the past period that would have closed with a positive saldo, and we can even see a country whose virtually significant role in its bankruptcy is to stage this Olympics. Ladies and gentlemen. There are nice words here about national cooperation and great co-operation and the fact that it is the Olympics that can bring the nation together. And I would like to say that we should not have Olympics in order to bring the nation together, and those pro-government representatives who are now talking about a great national cooperation on the Olympics are the same pro-government representatives who represent a policy of exclusion in the daily life of the legislation; those who undermine the rights of the opposition, who adopt laws that involve the elimination and discrimination of many social groups, and those who refuse to listen almost once to the words of those who disagree. Meanwhile, they refer to national cooperation and a great deal of cooperation. You must be a believer in national cooperation and integration of different groups in everyday life, in legislation, in local governments and everywhere else, and then it may sound more authentic from your mouths. As Mr Németh here has said, how much he respects Csaba Hegedűs because of his sports history, he has made a single move against him in the Wrestling Alliance, and the extremely long-standing sportsman has been cut out of it by blowing and standing up here and telling me how much he respects him. From now on, this man can't be credible to me. So are you gonna respect Csaba Violin's sports history or have him kicked out of the Wrestling Alliance? That should be decided, because these two don't work together. Ladies and Gentlemen, It would also be based on trust that you are asking us to vote on this right now. To trust. The truth is, trusting you doesn't stand up in this case. Trust was raised a few weeks ago, and we've advanced your confidence in the water world. We voted without reservation in favour of the proposal on the water world because we had confidence. At the time, you said that the water world would cost about 20 billion, that you would choose the person who built the facilities in a tender, and you said that you would not increase the areas you said at the time, that you needed the areas you said there. Not three weeks have passed, from 20 billion to 50 billion, they have already given their buddy Garancsi the construction without a tender, the 50 billion-dollar execution, and we have heard that various areas will be taken away by XIII. I'm gonna go from district to district. While we voted in favour of this, we turned to you with confidence, and spent two weeks using that trust. The same problem we have now is that if we turn to you with confidence and voted in favour of these requests, if this happens in relation to a World Championship, I cannot imagine what would happen in connection with an Olympics. So, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that you've created a country here in five years, which, I'm afraid, will not get an Olympic settlement because the country's international relations are down, the country's internal social relations have been disrupted, if you like, and, of course, the country whose blood is climbing the ranks from year to year, on the ladder that represents the corruption index, we are now in a rather prestigious place, if we compare all this, then I don't know if the international community would give us very easily to direct the summer Olympic Games. There is much talk of costs, from 30 billion to 2000 billion. In fact, we are not talking about the costs of holding the Olympics, we are talking about the costs of the tender, in which there is an item of 19-20 billion, which is actually just the cost of submitting and evaluating the tender. It's only HUF 20 billion, which must be paid, and we haven't talked about the other costs of the application yet, and we certainly didn't talk about the costs of the operation. But if we're going to talk about trust at national level, and you're going to say that we need a total social cooperation, then it's also an interesting fact that you're going to have a hundred or thousands of pages of study done with PwC, and as soon as this study is done, it's being encrypted. You can't get this study because it's classified. They want to apply on the basis of a secret study or make an Olympics, and then they say they need a full-scale social cooperation. Then let us make this public, prepare for politicians, decision makers, but also for society, what it is all about. Trust goes away right away, when a study is done about this and it's immediately encrypted, the question is why it's encrypted. [[11.20]] Trust is also about the fact that, ladies and gentlemen, even the most beautiful words and the best ones, the best cases here have always come to the conclusion that someone in your environment has put the money in their pocket, and our problem is that it looks like we're still going this way. For the past five years, you have unfortunately taught us that there is little confidence in coming to you and that there is nothing more to be said about your policy than the acquisition of prey. I don't want to hurt anyone in this room, obviously I believe that there are some people who feel the heart of this Olympics, and they really think so, but in the meantime, we can't see the oligarchs around their party, who keep pulling the jacks off everything, and obviously, I'm telling you, the water world has already had 50 billion forints at Mr. Garancsi's. At gas purchases, at the Trafik system, at land leases, what always happened was that here they said very nice words about why they should: young people shouldn't smoke, it's a very important national issue, we are transforming the Trafik system. How did it end? The fact that the money was stolen wasn't about the smoking habits of young people. It's just an example, but a hundred could be classified. They say they're going to build it with small and medium-sized enterprises because they need to be supported. And if there's no Olympics, why don't you support them? If we can only support them with the Olympics, it's very interesting. You can support them without the Olympics. Or are they saying that the Olympics will benefit from health care otherwise? Well, then, a lot of people in this country are gonna die by the time this Olympics benefit from health care. Here, maybe you can fix the health care first, and then you can think about it. I would consider the order of this very important, I'm sure it would go ahead. Antal Rogán promises that everything will be transparent, the Rogán Antal, who doesn't even know how big his living room is, because he grows 3-4-5 square meters a day. Don't let Antal Rogán promise transparency who can't make himself transparent. You keep encrypting everything, you accept Paks II by encrypting it - it's not about transparency. Then a bill was introduced, which makes it almost impossible for everyone to obtain and obtain data of public interest, while talking about how they will do the Olympics in a transparent way. You haven't done anything transparent, you usually keep secrets, keep secrets, and usually the oligarchs around you are working to drain these funds. I'm afraid if you guys were to host the Olympics, by the time we get to the opening, there'd be three of the five rings left, because one would be taken by the Garancsi, and one would be taken by the Butcher, and not two would be left because Simicska has already been kicked out - that's about what your Olympics would look like, that's my problem. [[László Kucsák intervenes.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, the Olympic idea is important, it would be very, very good to have an Olympic Olympics, and it would be very, very good if you had made a country here that could really organise an Olympics if we were in a social situation where most of the people were not to be occupied with their own misery, but could genuinely stand behind this idea and say [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's get together and set this up. But today Hungary is not fit for this because of your mistake. Thank you.
u2015-06-30-32	Thank you very much. Mr István Simicskó is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Christian Democratic People's Party also considers that the organisation of an Olympics is a historical chance for Hungary. I have quoted here a few times, within the walls of this House, from an important book, and allow me to refer to Wolfgang Behringer again, also to his book The Cultural History of Sport. [[He's showing it to me.]] which I recommend to all my sport-friendly fellow Members, has remarkable writings in it. There is a very important statement here that defines sport as the key to the way in which society works, through sport, we can see our human relations and social relations. In such a debate, it is obvious that we all have the question of whether we are able to organize the world's most prestigious sporting event, whether we are able to create facilities, cultured, XXI. If we are able to prepare our athletes for such a huge competition, if we are able to organize, if we have the capacity to organize such a mega-world event, and if we are able to grow spiritually and spiritually for this task, and join together through it, create a national unity. I would like to say that in terms of facilities, 90 percent of these facilities have been built or have already been built virtually without an Olympics. In terms of organizing capacity and events, Hungary is organizing 36 world competitions, European Championships and World Cups this year as well, in recent years we have sought to host as many world competitions as possible. This is why Hungary has acquired the right to direct the 2017 World Water Championship, as international sports players have seen that Hungary is able to organize any world competition, sports competition, and can perform this work in a good manner, and can do it as a good host. A sports psychologist and sociologist, Kimberly Schimmel, who lives in the United States, says that an Olympic event is, in fact, primarily about the future of cities. It refers to the fact that Salt Lake City was practically not on the map before the 2002 Winter Olympics, and when he successfully organized the Winter Olympics, he was placed in a different league in the ranking of cities, and has been able to organize a series of big events ever since. So sport means urban development at the same time, says Kimberly Schimmel, which means increasing the attractiveness of the city in the national and global hierarchy of cities, influencing investment decisions, improving the situation of the city, industrialisation, increasing the number of hotel seats, cultural marketing and many others. So we can sum up: a huge opportunity for a particular city, an applicant city, which can organize an Olympics. I have said it a few times here, within the walls of this House, and I deeply believe that there are very few things in common that can connect humanity in our world today, and unfortunately there are very few things that can connect the Hungarian nation. Sport is such a common language, a common value, and I see that international understanding, in the international world speaking in the language of sport, in keeping with the rules and uniform rules of sport, do understand everywhere what we want, what our purpose is, what our plan is; that is, a common language, and we must appreciate that. And in view of the performance and performance of our athletes, Hungarians, I must say that we must do it at the highest level, we must cultivate this common language at the highest level, which is what sport means for us. I always say, perhaps here, in the walls of this House, that I became a lawyer because I wasn't very strong in mathematics in high school, but I learned an operation: this is the common denominator, and I try to live my political life according to it, to find the common denominator, to bring matters to a common denominator, and then maybe we can create and create much bigger things together, even an Olympics. That's how we Christian Democrats see it. And besides Christianity, which is also a universal value, we want to increase and cultivate the universal value of sport as much as possible. KDNP takes seriously the sport law adopted in 2004, which was adopted during the period of socialist governments within the walls of this House. This is our sport law, Act I of 2004 49. It refers both to the organisation of the Olympics, to the support of the Olympic movement and to the construction of facilities for the Olympics as a state task. We take this seriously and support it, which is why the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the Olympic tender, and we call on our fellow Members to join this noble, common national cause, regardless of party standing. We have to live with this chance created by the International Olympic Committee. What my fellow Member Zoltán Lukács referred to was that he had little positive salvo for the Olympics, the modern Olympics, and that is why a reform effort has occurred in the International Olympic Committee, thanks to President Thomas Bach and the delegates, with which the Agenda 2020 was adopted, with which they gave rise and opportunity, in order to allow medium-sized cities to apply, and not only the strongest, the most financially powerful states and cities, but also the ones who were ordered to do so. [[11.30]] This is a new opportunity, we need to see this, this is what the Hungarian Olympic Committee has observed to us with joy, and the Budapest General Assembly and everyone who has sided with this issue, and this is the chance we have to live with. With regard to transparency, this always arises: Mr Luke spoke about the lack of transparency. A protective body was established regardless of party status, there are public people in it, a committee would stand up with the delegates of the parties, under constant control. And let me add, my fellow Member, we are talking about 2024, until then there will be at least two parliamentary elections. I believe that this shows that whatever it may be, whatever government it may be, we obviously strive to continue to enjoy people's trust, but we do not need to make it party-dependent and make it the subject of party politics on the subject of a big national issue, an Olympic event and its proposal, but we believe that it is necessary to raise a united line. Finally, I would conclude by saying that this chance, which the International Olympic Committee has given us, is not only a chance to apply for an Olympics, but it is perhaps at least as important: it is also a chance for our national cooperation, a chance, because an Olympics will always bring together the given nation, and through this we may be able to steer our human relations in a better direction. It can improve our self-esteem, strengthen our national consciousness, and through this the organisation of such an Olympics, the organisation of a sporting event, can further strengthen the important objective of the Ortega, namely the sporty approach of life, and through this we can further improve our national cooperation and our national coexistence. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the proposal for a decision before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-30-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Szilágyi György will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There are few points in Hungary that finally do not separate, but connect, Hungarian people. Such a common point is to root for national jersey athletes, or such a common point could be the organisation of a major international sporting event such as an Olympic event in 2024. As a sports power, this is an excellent opportunity for our country to show not only its achievements in this area, but also its glorious history and hopeful future. We are also sure that the necessary infrastructure developments and investments will pay off already in the medium term, so the Olympics, in addition to making a name for our country, can also serve the well-being of the people who live here. It should also be said that, at this moment, this proposal for a resolution is just a declaration of intent. This declaration of intent is, of course, supported by the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, because we consider it important that the possibility of holding an Olympics exists for Hungary. I would also like to say that the devil is in the details, so that 1300-page feasibility study is at our disposal, contrary to what the MSZP said, I asked for it yesterday, I received it, and we will certainly review it. Our experts are at 10:00 at the moment, they are at the headquarters of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and ask questions about feasibility, and here the professional questions decide how feasible this Olympics can be. I thought, by the way, that my speech would take about this Parliamentary resolution, because these sentences can be said in two minutes, and from now on all the parties that are present and will then support them, they will almost say the same things. But then, yesterday, I had to realize that I could say that such a big event and such events could be seen by large parties, small parties such as LMP, MSZP, or I could say the others, they do not, so they do not support it, so this is the own of the small parties. In fact, yesterday at the TAB meeting Mr. Gőgös said from his mouth that the Olympics were supported on top of the infection, only in Budapest, but not in the countryside. I told him there that at the moment they were at 8 percent, that the top of the infection was about 6 percent, so he would say 3-4 of these sentences, and they couldn't be called a small party, but that doesn't bother me at all, I'll tell you honestly. I have to get to what the MSZP has done in a week. A week ago, in the headquarters of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, a five-party meeting took place, where József Tóbias also appeared, who said the same thing I said now that the declaration of intent is fully supported by MSZP, and then let's look at the professional arguments, see what the feasibility study is like. Then came yesterday's TAB meeting, where the sports politician of the MSZP, Zoltán Gőgös - because he is now the sports politician, interestingly László Varga and Attila Mesterházy are not in the room, they probably didn't take up all of this, because they know a little about sports - so Zoltán Gőgös said his sentences about demagog and - I say - intended for political gain. By the way, it is good that we are even discussing this OGY resolution, that the MSZP has shown its true face. So this MSZP, which is such a noble idea as the possibility of settling the Olympics, which could forge a nation, is willing to sacrifice this on the altar of political gain, is an outrage to me. That's because I'm gonna have to quote you a few things. Here, Zoltán Lukács also said that we will talk about such national cooperation and such things, who says these things, only Fidesz and us, of course, because now we will be washed up. I'll quote you, okay? Metropolitan Assembly, Csaba Horváth, MSZP, June 23rd:. For the sake of Budapest and the Hungarian nation, let us dream together, but let us think about it standing on the ground of reality and in this spirit. I trust a successful settlement, we hope for the best in terms of year. Csaba Horváth said that. Let's look at another quote, perhaps, because there are others here who have spoken in this matter. Ágnes Kunhalmi and Csaba Horváth say; Ágnes Kunhalmi is sitting behind Zoltán Gőgös. A communication was published:. The Olympic design and the application of games can become an important learning process for all of us, offering a chance to set a new framework for our already started and only thought-based development plans, and an opportunity to create a fact-based, anti-poverty, job creation and knowledge-enhancing programme based on the same basis. It's the same thing. Let's go up to the field, he said, and then the game hasn't even started, and they're not there, not even in the neighborhood. Let me quote one more thing: it is exactly three days ago:, We also believe in equal opportunities, so that noble competition is not a question of money, that the settlement of the Olympics is not a privilege of the big cities of rich countries, but an effort, a struggle, faster, higher, stronger, and we, segmented people here on the banks of the Tisza, in the city of sunlight, rebirth, champions and water, understand this very well. Mayor László Botka. People who know a little about sports say things like that, people who are, say, implanted, like Zoltán Grimlock was, and they say things like that. So I'll tell you again, that's probably why they didn't show up. Let me just say one or two more things, okay? Was there a positive salon in any of the Olympics? Go out to Barcelona, ask the people who live there, because the positive salon is not meant as we say others understand that there is a pen, we buy it for 10 forints, we sell it for 12, and 2 forints is the positive salon. It's not the positive salvo. So if that's how you think about settling the Olympics, you can't show a positive salvo, that's obvious. A positive salon is combined with a lot of things. I would add that on the part of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we consider the budget to be under-planned, or at least, if not under-planned, but not entirely honest. So we believe and claim that we should also say that this Olympic settlement will cost 3-4 thousand billion forints in a basic tone, because that is what everyone will say anyway. And from this 3-4 thousand billion, let us go back to what developments we would have made by 2024 anyway, we will deduct from this 3-4 thousand billion. Then what other costs would come, all of them can be deducted. You can go down. How much revenue do we expect? That can be deducted, too. That's how we get there. Then it wouldn't be possible to fool people with things like, say, the water world, where now we've only heard 20 billion, that's the first. No! Anyone who's been watching him about the wet world knows that, by the way, from the non-governmental side... I'm sorry that I'm protecting the government, but I'm criticizing the government a lot, but let's be honest about that. Tamás Gyárfás declared an amount of 25 billion. That's what everyone's saying. But this amount of $25 billion was related to a particular object. How much total settlement costs is a completely different matter, but the question is, as they slide around the water world with billions of people, they asked us if we should say the MSZP expert who sits in there, because everyone had the opportunity to delegate a person to the organizational committee who sits in there and sees these things the same way. Does he think so? Because if you think so, then tell them. [[11.40]] I told you, any abuse... [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] - LMP says they're not. Of course not, because they didn't support the water world. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] They offered the opportunity and went in to those who supported it. The other is that it costs HUF 20 billion for the application, said Zoltán Lukács. How do you know? I don't know. I don't know, I don't know where we're getting these things from, but that's why I need you to start working. It is simple that they are constantly criticizing, they are not supposed to be involved in the work, because they could go with their experts, they could consult, they could ask for the 1300-page material, they could read it, and then they could ask the questions that we will ask if there are questions that need to be asked. But you'd have to work for that. I understand you're used to them not working, but do your job. Take part in the work, the audit, because then they will be able to give accurate figures and not constantly destroy in this country, but do so for the good of the country. You have been present in Hungarian politics for the past 25 years. It is time for them to start doing the right thing, and perhaps it is time for them to participate in changing the economic, political and any system that is in Hungary. This is what I consider an opportunity to settle the Olympics. This is what I consider to be an opportunity to settle the water world, because we have clearly stated that we want both events to be organised without corruption and for the benefit of the country. This is our chance to prove that we can do it. Looks like it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the MSZP does not wish to participate in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-30-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-37	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, At the very beginning, I would like to say that the May Other Politics is not at all anti-Olympian, and we would very much like to see Olympics held in Hungary as well. It would be great if we could get there in a reasonable time to have an Olympics. Unfortunately, it won't be in a few years. The plan to host the 2024 Olympics in Budapest is rejected. We are not in favour of having an Olympics in nine years under the current conditions and circumstances. We do not support it to a large extent because the Fidesz-KDNP government is not able to prepare for this. The setting up of five-ring games can indeed be a historic opportunity for a country, a nation. It is of great importance for the national sense of belonging. A successful arrangement and a successful performance fills everyone with pride. This is something the Hungarian nation needs very much. Realizing the eternal thoughts of the Olympic idea is great, but unfortunately, the five-ring games of the past period have been very far removed from the original ideals of the Olympics. The Olympics have become a huge business machine, which is unsustainable in many respects, of course there is the Agenda 2020 reform programme adopted last December by the Assembly of the International Olympic Committee. This concept would strengthen the original Olympic idea, and states, inter alia, that, I quote, the principles of environmental, economic, financial, social, legal... and sustainability must be enforced at all levels of the Olympic Games' organisation and planning. But even though the government describes such beautiful principles in the resolution proposal before us, if the last five years are completely the opposite, they have completely achieved the opposite. Does the Fidesz-KDNP talk about sustainable development when Paks 2 builds with the Russians? ! Environmental awareness when you sell out national parks? Is it about spending public money efficiently and legally when you want to support your own oligarchs from tax forints? The involvement of professional and civil society organisations when we are discussing this proposal with extreme urgency? About the development of the countryside, when the concept to be implemented would strengthen the country's capital focus? Who have ignored sustainability and environmental concerns so far, the interests of future generations who are constantly launching unnecessary big investment? The ones who don't give a shit about transparency? From them, what has been described in this proposal for a decision is not credible at all. What are our main concerns? Let's look at the economic aspects first. The Olympic investment obviously has a positive impact, many of its positive effects have been described in front of me by the lead speakers, but the setting up of five-ring games would only bring a point-like, shock-like recovery. We do not see the possibility of lasting and balanced economic development in this concept. Even in the countries mentioned as a positive example, it is rarely heard. When did we hear about Salt Lake City? - just as an example. It's a big project with a huge cost overrun. Even though they are talking about 774 billion forints, the total cost of the settlement is a multiple of this, I agree with what has been said, as said by Mr Szilágyi, that it could be 3-4 thousand billion forints due to the necessary other investments. Moreover, in the latter Olympics, it is very common that the total amount of the bill is going up many times. Whether the Greek example floats before our eyes; Greece has been specifically crushed by the 2004 Olympics, which is still having an impact in the days. But let's not go so far: think of the domestic water world, whose initial cost of 25 billion dollars in a few weeks suddenly doubled. In the case of an Olympics, this would mean an insufferable increase, as if they wanted to build Paks III. In short and succinctly, according to the LMP, in the next ten years we do not have HUF 3-4 thousand billion for Olympic major investments. In terms of sustainability, there is no support for a package of intentions in the parliamentary decision proposal. The public 100-page summary of the feasibility study completely lacks a section on environmental conditions, consequences and environmental risk reduction. Despite throwing these objectives into the proposal for a decision, they do not care at all about avoiding the negative environmental impact, even though an Olympic has an unruly environmental burden. We were able to access this 100 - page public decision, and we are not one of the kissers who received the full 1,300 - page study. It seems that this is only for the supporters, as in the case of the wet World Championship, only those who supported it are invited to the so-called five-party negotiations. There is no indication of how many existing green surfaces would be destroyed, what the impact of events on wildlife would be. Consider, for example, the northern part of Csepel Island, which is regarded as an investment and not as an interesting area from a nature conservation point of view. We do not want any further significant installation. You are aware that in the neighbouring countries, or even in the remote countries of the region, the ratio of green surfaces is the lowest in Budapest. Consider the example of the high tide. The preparations for the water World Championship were also started with a significant amount of wood cutting. LMP does not want an Olympics that endangers the environment, endangers the city structure. At all, a large part of the population in Budapest still lives in noise and soot pollution beyond the health limit, which is why there is also an infringement procedure against the Hungarian government. Of course, Fidesz-KDNP doesn't mind. Just now, a legislative amendment has been adopted to allow people living and staying in world heritage areas to endure noise pollution beyond the health limit, without the possibility of remedying the constitutional fundamental right to a healthy environment. What does the Olympics do with the capital-rural question? The territorial differences in Hungary are yelling. Domestic rural areas face huge problems. The dramatic loss of population is the direct consequence of the dynamic break-down of rural Hungary. Many people have moved to the central region, Budapest, or even more abroad. If we don't stop the demise of the countryside, the population loss of the countryside, this will have tragic consequences. A responsible government should also face this, and a significant part of development resources should be used to close the gap in the capital region. On the other hand, they would organize a Budapest-based Olympics, which would further increase the yelling differences. Even though it is described in the Memorandum of Understanding that the wider involvement of rural sites is important, it is a major capital project. Inevitably, rural developments, not related to the Olympics, would also be postponed. And anyway, what kind of rural policy have we seen in the last five years? The Fidesz-KDNP government is also uncredited on this issue. [[11.50]] According to the LMP, it would be impossible to be irresponsible if, in the next ten years, the Olympics were the number one aspect of the use of development resources. We think we need to rank here, not on that angle. Not to mention the development needs of areas. If we had 3-4 thousand billion forints, but up to 774 billion based on narrow settlement costs, we would have to spend it immediately on education, health care, social care and culture. After cuts in recent years, we are talking about areas of very lack of resources. I still need to talk about corruption risks. As regards the 2017 water world, we have also seen that the project is sinking into the swamp of corruption in its entirety, and that the companies that belong to the interests of Viktor Orbán's friends are increasingly determining what will happen there, and they are winning these investments. Finally, let's look at reality a little bit. Dear fellow Members, I suppose we were watching the same broadcasts when we followed the Olympic broadcasts, and we were cheering there, and certain situations emerged when the victory of the Hungarian team or the Hungarian contestant was close, and unfortunately, that hair was always for the benefit of a larger country. At times like this, we are bitterly saying, what has this Hungarian sports diplomacy done again! If Hungarian sports diplomacy were now at the height of the situation and they could see the realities, watch the Olympics, know that there are certain laws, there are laws, when an Olympics can be held on which continent, in which country, they can see that Europe is not next. By putting a mirage in front of the Hungarian people... [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Who would be next? Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio, Rio Rio Rio Rio Rio Rio Rio Rio]] I'm talking about 2024. I'm sorry. We know it's Rio, and then it's Tokyo. And we know very well that it will not be a European country. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] He had an Olympics in North America 28 years ago. Boston has submitted a tender, a nice round tender, already watching over the table. That's the kind of country we have to confront. If Europe were to win: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Paris, which held the last Olympics just a hundred years ago, in 1924, is also applying for it, and their competition is there. That's the kind of reality we're running for an Olympics! I think that we shouldn't be chasing the country with these things, setting up such a mirage and not throwing such a rubber bone now, when, for example, the info law is being amended in the opposite direction, not with such... [[They're shutting off his mike.]]
u2015-06-30-38	Congressman, the time frame is the serious limit that must be respected, and I respectfully warn you. [[István Ikotity: Excuse me!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, in his letter to Mr László Kövér, informs you that the KDNP will hand over the remaining two minutes of nine seconds to the Fidesz Group. There will now be a speech by independent representatives, with a timeframe of three minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'm trying to be very brief and brief, considering I only have three minutes. I think that we can discuss two things of substance in the context of an Olympic settlement. One is whether we even have a chance to win this competition, the other is how much it will bring, how much it will take for such a settlement in Hungarian: what the budget of this would look like. Whether this proposal can be won can be argued in favour of it and against it. This is where we heard my fellow Member Ikotity, who is quite skeptical, and I prefer his opinion. But I would suggest to everyone that you sit down with sports diplomats, not journalists and non-TV cameras, honestly tell them what you think about this. It's not my job to broadcast it. I, too, am a little afraid that some politicians are very involved, that this Olympics are definitely ours - we are almost there. So you probably have to be more careful about that. The next question is how much this is gonna cost us. To tell you the truth, I'd be a regional and local development specialist in terms of my original qualifications, and I've never seen a management summary like this before in my life. I've learned this, by the way, how to understand what is behind the real calculation, behind which there is no real calculation, behind which there is clearly no calculation. This is where everyone talks about 1300 pages of study. Where's that 1300 - page study? We asked for it, we didn't get it, we were even pushed down, that we wouldn't support it anyway, so they wouldn't give it to us. We were supposed to get this before we made a decision. How do we decide in Parliament what we spend 3000 billion forints on? This is what is included in the executive summaries, 2844 billion, on the one hand at the cost of the settlement and, on the other hand, at the cost of early and basic investments. And that's all they want to spend knowing nothing about him. Anyway, I'd still be okay with it, because I think it's good, of course it's said how important sports are, all right, let's organize them, but then they'll take the guarantee for the whole thing. That is why I added an amendment to this proposal for a decision. If you are so sure that the Galvani Bridge and the Csepel Ráckevei HÉV will be built in Csepel, you should take a guarantee that whether or not we will win the tender, these investments will be built. What happened? The Legislative Committee said that it didn't support this. Therefore, the government does not guarantee what the tender considers to be a project to be carried out at the basic level. That's why this means HUF 3000 billion, and that's why I have a pretty powerful problem about it. So it would be good to consider that, and first let's see that study, and then we can decide about it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents behind Jobbik. It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-30-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Csizi, is against the time frame. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Erik Bánki, Mr István Simicskó, State Secretary, has already mentioned that the Agenda 2020 programme will abolish the privilege of metropolises in connection with the organisation of the Olympics. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention, in particular, to Congressman Ikotity, Member of the Boston lobbyist. [[Defiance.]] note that Agenda 2020 also states and provides an opportunity for the relevant organising city to organise other settlements. And the mayors of the Hungarian cities, including the mayor of Szeged, László Botka, indicated that they wished to participate in the organisation of the Olympics. The Hungarian cities are pleased with this opportunity, and I would like to support the organisation of the 2024 Budapest Olympics. That is why I am surprised that the Hungarian Socialist Party can no longer be united in this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We have democracy, old man, don't you mind?]] And I was surprised that even by organising the Olympics, they couldn't join the president of their national election. But, of course, as a member of the Parliament of Pécs, I do not want to deal with the internal affairs of the Hungarian Socialist Party, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the largest cities in South Transdanubia, which has given 19 Olympics and five paralympics to the national success of the five-ring sports and the Olympics in recent years, wishes to participate in the organisation of the Olympics in Budapest. Pécs is known as the capital of basketball. Thanks to the government, the National Basketball Academy is built in our city, there is a government decision to build a new multifunctional sports centre in the coming years until 2018. So we think that we want to be part of the Olympics in the field of basketball. But I would like to draw the attention of the organizers, the National Assembly, that, thanks to the support and strength of a local entrepreneur, Pécs also has a European-level featherball complex, and in recent years - few know - that the city of Pécs and the branch of Pécs have been successful in both domestic and international approaches. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, This afternoon, the Pécs Municipality will decide whether it intends to participate in the Olympics in the field of these two sports and will be entrusted by Pécs Sport Nonprofit Zrt. His CEO, Attila Vári, who is also a two-time Olympic champion water polo player to prepare the impact assessment and expert material for the participation in Pécs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased as a Pécs Member of Parliament that the patronage board is a member of the Pécs-born Tamás Sors Paralympics, who, besides several Paralympic championships, could return home from Beijing with the brightest medal in Paralympics. [[12.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the life of the city of Pécs and the cities of Hungary, a home-oriented Olympic would be a huge improvement. I do not agree with those who think that non-Budapest locations should be avoided. I also agree with the National Olympic Committee, who believe that it would develop rural cities in addition to the big city, the sports life of rural cities would be greatly stimulated by a home-directed Olympics. Finally, let us not forget that it is also a great opportunity for Hungarian athletes to be able to fight other athletes in a domestic environment. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-42	Thank you very much. Welcome back, we'll continue our work. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. Congressman Banki's signaling. You have four minutes and ten seconds, Congressman. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary factions, the Fidesz, the KDNP and the Jobbik factions, for really thinking seriously that the settlement of an Olympics is a national matter, a social and political cooperation that sends a positive message to all citizens of Hungary, and which, in the case of a successful application, can put the country on a development or development path that can deliver concrete and tangible results for all Hungarian citizens. Allow me to respond to the questions raised by the doubters. Zoltán Lukács's comment reminded me of a fitting analogy, which I read earlier, that even the wind rooster appears to be a strong character in silence. Until the Hungarian Parliament saw the parliamentary decision proposal to support the submission of the Olympic tender, the MSZP was a pro-Olympian. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not true. Don't say that.]] Read it, Congressman Gőgös, read all the statements, the president of your party in Budapest, the key politicians of your party. [[Zoltán Pride: I don't care.]] President of the National Elections, they all said how important this is to the MSZP! Political gain, petty, otherwise, in this relationship, has changed their minds for reasons that cannot be interpreted. Congressman, this is incomprehensible. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We have freedom of speech.]] And it's unacceptable to me. They asked me why the material was encrypted. I would also like to draw the Member's attention, although your colleague asked, you were not, but Zoltán Lukács was so important about the Olympics that he had already gone home, obviously he had more important things to do. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He's almost here, he hasn't left.]] It can be very, very serious if you cannot endure an hour's debate in Parliament if you have already agreed to represent a party's position. [[How many times have you been here?]] Well, you have the 1300 pages of material, my honourable fellow Member. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 100 pages.]] I'd like you to talk to, say, your faction leader. Each faction leader received the 1300-page total material. Why isn't this on the MOB website? There is no upstairs, my honourable fellow Member, because we do not want to give the cities that are applying for us an opportunity to look at the 1300-page study, which, at the moment, includes Hungary's weaknesses in addition to its strengths. However, that 100-page summary has already reached all Members in time, I think you may have read this, which confirms that Hungary is capable and capable of organizing an Olympics. His fellow Member also said that we believe that we can organise a realistic Olympics when our international relations are weak, there is no degree in sport in Hungary. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in terms of the world's third largest event in the world, the FINA, the International Swimming Federation, has chosen Hungary in two cases. First, when we won the right to direct by 2021, and secondly, when Mexico withdrew, it brought it forward to 2017, giving Hungary the shortest settlement time of all time, deciding only because Hungary was seen to be able to host the third largest sporting event in the world even in such extreme circumstances. On the subject of Mr István Ikotity's speech, I recalled Miklós Zsolnai's favourite riddle as to the difference between the theologian and the geologist. Well, my honourable fellow Member, heaven and earth. [[Defiance.]] In your speech, we saw the dimension of heaven and earth within a speech, because you started by saying that you are pro-Olympian, that you believe the Olympics are a huge opportunity for Hungary to show its values and a forging force that can have a positive impact on society as a whole. Then, with his next word, he said that, by the way, they do not support the right to settle the 2024 Olympics, because they do not consider Hungary suitable. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] However, he has put forward arguments that cannot be interpreted in this relation. Excuse me, Mr. President, my time is up. Thank you all very much for your speech. I also call on non-supporting Members to try to override their position and support this opportunity. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on 6 July. Dear Parliament, Next up is the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz, by T/5419. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 15 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 5 minutes for a statement by the representative of the Government, 6 minutes for a statement by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10-10 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, the rapporteur on the agenda. Before I give the floor, it is my duty to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 15 minutes to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-30-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! There is a very short bill before you, to which I ask for your support. The essence of this is basically a few technical clarifications that are necessary for the implementation of the facilities necessary for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest in an appropriate time frame and in an appropriate quality. As my fellow Members have seen, the bill, which contains a relatively short set of five paragraphs, seeks primarily to regulate issues related to the installation of the swimming pool's mobile bleaching system, precisely in order to qualify for the reception of 14,000 people by the time of the World Championship. I would like to say, first of all, that any regulatory issue that would otherwise be dealt with in a different way from the average rules of the bill, Mr. under the leadership of the district council. On all the details, not only the XIII. The mayor of the district, but the mayor of the XIII. It also informed the district assembly and, in this respect, the proposal also supports the management of the city. It is not, therefore, before this is discussed later in the debate, that we intend to adopt legislation in order to override the regulation of a socialist district with MSZP leadership and, by the power of the law, to implement development ideas that would otherwise be contrary to the intention of the representatives of the city. I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Various questions were raised at the meeting of the TAB, and I support the amendments tabled by Mr Pál Völner to the bill. I believe that there are sufficient guarantees in the bill that, on the one hand, the temporary structure will be dismantled after the World Championship, and by 31 December 2017, this mobile bleachers will have to be dismantled. And, of course, the Minister of the Interior's ministerial decree is bound by the regulations which contain the safety requirements for the approach and use of the bleachers. I think that Minister will be able to carefully lay down the rules necessary to guarantee the safety of the visiting, we hope, of 14,000 people who visit every day. [[12.10]] I also thank my fellow Members for their support so far. We all know that we have very little time at our disposal. We will achieve a world summit if we can build the facilities by a reasonable deadline, in a sufficient capacity, and we can organize the event on a world-class basis. I think that everything is given in order to do so within the appropriate time limits, but this required exceptional derogations from the general procedures already contained in previous legislative amendments. So I would like to thank once again my fellow Members, the factions who have already supported us in this regard. I can promise them that the negotiations and transparency will continue to be ensured. As has been said in the previous debate, there are parliamentary factions, experts who will ensure that they can discuss and inform my fellow Members, the factions, all the details of the organisation related to the event. So I would ask you to support this short, basically technical bill in order to keep up with the short deadlines. Thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary Major has the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the summer of 2011, the International Swimming Federation decided to host the 2017 World Swimming Championship in Guadalajara, Mexico, but the City of Mexico recently withdrew from the right to direct. Hungary and Budapest have already won the right to organize the 2017 Junior World Championships and the 2021 adult World Championship. The Hungarian Swimming Association and the Hungarian Government have decided to take advantage of the opportunity opened as a result of the withdrawal and to apply to the International Swimming Federation for the event of the world's adult water championship in 2017. In order for the sport facilities needed for the settlement to be feasible, previously designated real estates need extremely tight work from all the actors involved in the investment. The Parliament adopted the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities necessary for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Műjump, Műújtó and Open Water Championships in Budapest, by nearly 97% majority. Law. Due to the extremely tight schedule, the law includes accelerations and simplifications for the implementation of its central facilities in the area of the high water bath. The bill we are discussing now complements or clarifies some of the sections of the Tide Act, including the additions necessary for the smooth conduct of the building authorisation procedure. The bill clarifies the rules on the establishment of temporary bleachers, emphasizing even more their temporary nature and the aspects to be considered by the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection in the course of authorisation. It establishes the conditions for the detailed regulation of the authorisation procedure for the establishment of temporary bleachers. The proposal is agreed by the government, supports it, and asks the honourable Parliament to do so. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, within a six-minute timeframe. Here.
u2015-06-30-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 29 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the establishment development required for the implementation of the 2015 World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial and Open Water Championships in Budapest. T/5419. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed Mr Pál Völner's amendment, which contained basically codification clarifications. The Commission adopted this proposal by 28 votes to one, with one abstention. The proposal seeks to address the practical issues raised during the preparation of the World Championships for Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Artificial Swimming and Open Water, which will be held in Hungary in 2017, and includes the necessary additions; in particular, the provisions on the mobile bleachers and the installation and authorisation of the mobile bleachers, which have already been mentioned by my fellow Member Erik Bánki and Secretary of State Fónagy. In view of this, this short legislative amendment proposal was adopted by the Committee with 28 votes in favour and 1 against and 1 abstention in respect of the summarised amendment proposal and the summary report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First, the speeches of the Members who have applied in writing, and first, the representatives of the KDNP, István Simicskó, Member of the State Secretary, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction reviewed and supports the amendment proposal. We also believe that it is important that the government organises as many world competitions as possible, and organises sports competitions. Obviously, our great social policy goal is for all children to play sports. This requires world competitions, as it encourages our children, sees role models from close to the body, encourages them to love sport and to play sports through it as many as possible. Of course, it is the government's duty and duty to ensure the conditions for sport, both in facilities and in the provision of various financial resources. Indeed, the launch of the 17th World Water Championship is a huge opportunity for Hungary, it must be done very quickly, and we also see that the decision of the International Swimming Federation, FINA towards Hungary, was extremely positive. Hungary has helped the International Swimming Federation in difficulty by stepping down Guadalajara and we have undertaken to bring the settlement of World Championships 21 up to 17 years. This is a huge challenge, a huge task for all of us, and the necessary steps must be taken. The T/5419 in front of us now. The legislative proposal seeks to clarify the procedures required for this purpose, which is supported by the KDNP fraction. We are all interested in providing a home for a successful world competition, a successful World Water Championship, and, of course, the difficulties that may arise in this connection will be remedied. So the KDNP supports the amendment before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-52	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, the next speaker. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is linked to the Olympic settlement that has been discussed above, as there is also a question of whether we have a chance to organise an Olympics. Realistic? No. Do we have a chance, we asked a few years ago, to have a great international competition, such as the third largest world competition, the World Water Championship? What we would have said a few years ago is realistic, no. Then a lot of people started working on what we said we didn't have a chance to do today. We have the law in front of us, and we need to implement a legislative process, in principle, at a strained pace, that will facilitate the world championship. But in the same way, we can ask whether we have a chance to go to the World Football Championship or the European Championship at any time. If I've been considering the past period since 86, realisticly, I don't. Still, I look forward to the Hungarian-Romanian match, which will be another turnover to see if we can get out now. Because that's what sports do. Only very few people can understand that. Anyone who doesn't play sports probably can't understand it, but what I'm saying is that, by the way, sportsmen are not only allowed to be on the field, we can be sportsmen in any field of life, whether we are here in Parliament, because those who are sportsmen know that sports are like that, where the less likely have a chance against the more likely ones. That's what sports are all about. That's the whole point of sports. So exactly, if we start anything out of little faith, then of course we will never win, we will never get there, then really Boston and Paris will take it, let's say, the Olympic settlement rights, but let me just believe that we may not have the opportunity as well. [[12.20]] And when we have an opportunity, when we get an opportunity, we have to use it as sportsmen. This is also the case with the water world, where we say that, while we keep in mind the conditions and ideals that Jobbik for Hungary Movement asked for - non-corruption, transparency, and doing it together - we will be able to work together, we will support these things, because there are higher goals than permanent trenching and personal matters. But let's be honest if you ask me - don't tell him, though I don't know - whether I love Tamás Gyárfás, I say no, but I am rooting for him, and I am helping him in everything. And do I like Fidest? No, but I'm rooting for you, and I'm helping you because you're on the government to try to make the World Water Championship together. We will therefore, of course, support this amendment, as well as the amendment we discussed yesterday, which we have already voted on today, was supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. I told you yesterday, and I'm going to give you a review of this today. In the future, it may be possible to better coordinate the work of the organising committee, the representative of the government, and everything else, so that there are no two laws. Because it was supposed to be a law, but Lajos Kósa put forward a bill, and then came proposals for amendments from the government commissioner and others, which were over-expansive, which was why they could not be brought in by a law. We have just voted on the first part, and next week we will also vote on the second part. We are voting for both, but it might have been easier to bring this to the House in the framework of a bill with a little coordination. They told me pretty much what it was all about in these amendments. To add, we have the right answers to our questions here, and we feel that there is no problem with this law. I continue to wish that we will have a normal, completely transparent, as well as a better water world, since the organisation of the water World Championship will have a very large impact on the Olympic tender, so that the two are not independent of each other. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-54	Thank you very much. Mr László Kiss, MSZP, the next speaker.
u2015-06-30-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Looks like I'm gonna have to mess up the system of national co-operation, if you don't mind. The Socialist Party has voted in favour of the water World Championship, and I must say that it has stood up and stands up to make this event as successful as possible. I agree with everyone who praised the importance of this matter in the previous comments. I personally think so, and the MSZP also thinks that we have a very good chance of organising a world event, a sporting event that serves the interests of Hungarians strongly. Unfortunately, however, the situation is not what my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, has been talking about, because the discussions that took place in the original bill have not been conducted in this manner in relation to further proposals. When I heard my fellow Member conduct the conciliation procedures, I asked Mr XIII: representatives of the district government, what they think of the discussions that my fellow Members think are okay. Last night, I thought they weren't okay, so maybe since 9:00 p.m., the last time I spoke to the people involved, something changed. I have to say that XIII hasn't changed since 9:00 P.M. the position of the municipality of the district concerning the new list of properties that has been included since the first law, which concerns the costs of the event and which relate to the mandate of Mr Garancsi. In all of these, the position has not changed, neither has there been any movement on the basis of which it can be said that it is true that the conciliation has taken place. If there is a reassuring response to the questions that have been raised since then, the MSZP will certainly take a yes, but this is not the case now. This is not the case, because we do not know why this cost had to rise to this extent, we do not know where Mr Garancsi appeared on this issue, nor do we know what the justification for these costs was in the case of newly acquired property. That we don't know this is one thing, but this is not known by the district council concerned, for example. I would not want to go into the parts on the basis of which we consider it very important to host this event, because everyone in this House agrees. We want this House to be able to decide on these issues by consensus, because we feel this is important. But I ask you not to save on the negotiations that have not yet been saved when the original proposal is submitted. Please go through this check list. Don't entrust your friends with the execution, but what really happens is that if Mr. Garancsi is really able to submit the best tenders, they should be selected in a tendering procedure. It should not happen that the district government feels that it is not involved in a conciliation process which has been included in the original bill. We feel that there is a very big difference between the time you tried to win everyone's support for organising the event - then you really did work on a model basis - and the time that has passed since then. I'd like you to get back to this. I very much agree with my colleague Szilágyi, who calls for transparency, asking for transparency at this event. I also believe that these aspects should prevail. What we're seeing is maybe a little different about whether these things are happening at the moment. I don't think they're gonna make it. I don't think there's any way to get back on this road. I don't think they're so out of order that they can't come back from this, and they can't do a well-organized, transparent, clean event. But that's what you have to do. I don't think it can't be XIII. to conduct negotiations with the district government that you have successfully carried out in the past. But that's what you have to do. I would ask you to make any changes to this kind of hyathe later, and in that case, obviously, the attitude of the MSZP will also change, and we will vote in favour of any proposal that actually serves the goals for which everyone in this House is struggling and which meet the needs - transparency, purity - which I believe are very important in this regard. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-30-56	Thank you, too. Member István Ikotity is the next speaker, LMP.
u2015-06-30-57	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It would be good if we could talk about Hungary's ability to organise a world competition in a way that does not exceed its strength and transparency. However, from the moment Hungary was given the opportunity to organize the 2017 water world, the government's machinery moved into motion to engulf the organization in an increasing fog and to benefit some well-known oligarchs. Parliament is discussing in a series the legislative proposals for the water world. The government side provides a series of exemptions from warranty rules, and exceptions to exceptions are now being made. It is now quite clear that the World Championship is not about sport, it is about fighting on a level playing field, but about ensuring the government's dominant position in an investment that will cause permanent damage to the country. And unfortunately, we have plenty to talk about. Let us first talk about the natural damage caused by unthinkable investments. Cutting down the platan and poplar trees of the high tide beach chosen as the location of the World Championship is obviously just the beginning. What else could be expected when we are again discussing an amendment to a law that not only exempts investment from the rules of transparency, but also enhances the disregard for natural values. But neither do archaeological values, and we know that from the previous amendments. But this is only one of the groups of damage to be expected. In fact, the majority of governments offer the opportunity for damage to nature under completely untraceable financial conditions. Totally shocking, but hardly surprisingly, the costs of the water World Championship suddenly doubled, and it became clear who would benefit from the investment. According to our current knowledge, close to 50 billion-dollar construction, István Garancsi and Lőrinc Mészáros already have contacts and interests. The first winners of the water tournament are here. The terms of the competition were defined by the government, the competitors received help from the government, and the awards were distributed by the government. [[12.30]] Whether the prizes are worth increasing is also up to the government's decision. Not to mention that if the documents published are true, the contract was concluded with the winning Market Zrt. without the Government decision on investments being published. According to the published documents, the result was announced on 11 May and the contract was concluded the next day. But the government decision was only published in the Hungarian Gazette on 26 May, which would have made this signature possible. On 18 May the investment took place. This chaos characterizes the full legislation on the water world. We would not be happy if this was the cause of incompetence, but there is strong suspicion that the gloom is due to the raw interests in the background. Obviously, the government also feels how suspicious this whole investment is, which is why an investment control body was set up. For mysterious reasons, the LMP, which was opposed to the investment from the beginning, has been forgotten to be invited to do so, which is the best sign we could find. According to your vision, only those who already agree, who do not have reservations, who accept the results of the inspection in advance should exercise control. In sports, it's called fur, and it's sad that they can make this situation years before the event. These are also worrying signs for the Olympic tender. Dear Parliament, The LMP has not yet supported the initiative because of opaque regulation, rising costs, putting friends in position, and environmental plans. We believe that the goal of a world competition is not to provide extra profit to the government's oligarchs. We don't think there's any reason why we're putting natural values in jeopardy. We do not think that ten billion should be spent in an opaque way. It is not certain that Hungary needs this investment now and so. The country can't afford that. It would be good, of course, if Hungary could be proud of its ability to host a world-class sporting event, it would be good to welcome the success of our athletes at home. However, this experience has already been ruined by the government, and we do not want to be partners in this. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-30-58	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, has applied for a speech requesting a normal word. Here you go. There's a time frame on the board.
u2015-06-30-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the words of László Kiss. What László Kiss suggested could be legitimate questions. The only problem I see - and I said that about the previous thing - is that we should work. Congressman, there was a five-party meeting at 10:00 yesterday morning. Everyone could have shown up. KDNP, Fidesz and Jobbik appeared at the five-party meeting. You weren't there. If they were there, they could have asked the same legitimate questions. That is why I had to ask the question, which I asked, whether, for example, the maximum level of integration in this amending proposal, the maximum level of integration below the ground level and the maximum permitted level of integration and the like were agreed in Annex XIII. district council. I asked him yesterday, it's even on the record. Yeah, that's the answer I got. But if they were there, you could have asked him yourself. In this matter, you say that if you get normal answers, you continue to work. We should work, we should sit there. From ten o'clock to the afternoon, we have been constantly discussing certain issues, and we have asked questions to the authors and the government, and we have made only guesses of requests. Let me give you another example. I hope that it will be taken into account when we have said that we do not want it, for example, in the Olympic Tender Committee; we hope that the President of this House will be wise enough not to have Péter Oskó on this committee. Either you comply with this request or you do not comply with it. When they don't, we have time to talk about this. But if you don't ask questions, you can't. This also applies to Congressman Ikotity. The opposition representatives are not part of a control body, they are part of the organising committee, where work should be done. A man usually does a job when he believes in something, when he wants to do something for an event. I - to give you an example - don't want to be on Pride's organizational committee, because I'm sure I couldn't take a good step for them to make that event normal. The same is expected. We should do a job, work on this committee. They don't get a penny for it, and they do it in social work, but we do think it's important that we be there with our ideas or with our expertise. We didn't put a politician in here, we put an expert, a man who, now I don't want to offend anyone, but perhaps most of the time he was at the FINA World Competition because he was an athlete in these world competitions, he has experience, he speaks several languages and he can be regarded as a politician in this matter. He's doing a job, he's gone to work. The opportunity is open to you, by the way. You know, if there's a certain organizational committee that's fighting for something, you should also believe that he's really fighting to be successful. If someone doesn't believe that we want or can arrange an event at all, which is not an easy thing... there are also such mistakes that you have said. Of course, there are mistakes, even because the time is very short and in a very short time it is necessary to perform tasks which other countries would otherwise not have undertaken. Or if we had polemized about when FINA offered us this opportunity to build the infrastructure and organize this event by 2017, then we shouldn't have been acting like sportsmen and saying that we don't have it, forget it, we're not going to do it. But you can do it. Because the Hungarian is a talented Hungarian, the Hungarian likes to work, the Hungarian people really are, I say they can do outstanding work, and we believe that such work can be done. We hope that the negatives that have so far characterised such larger investments can be forgotten, cut down, and that we will be able to have a very successful World Championship, hopefully in 2017. Honestly, we don't care what this means politically for a government or Fidesz a year before the elections. That's not what matters! You need to be able to rise above party interests, individual interests and all other interests in relation to such events. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-30-60	Thank you very much. Congressman László Kiss, MSZP!
u2015-06-30-61	Thank you for the floor. I did not think that this House would be interested in the details of the conciliation at such a depth, but we could talk about it. Obviously it is not that this event is organised and organised by certain parliamentary committees. Obviously, that's not what this is about. Obviously, it is not that, no one has made such a statement that there is no work in this area. It is simply that there are some issues in which there has really been no substantive discussion, and there are some issues in which it has taken place. I have also said that, with regard to the preparation of the proposal, in the context of the first bill, I must say that there has been a pattern of activity. I also know of a five-party discussion where practically none of the people who called it in and I say we were the only ones present. But irrelevant questions, because I think that others are also considered to be conciliations, for example, when a mayor asks a question and receives an answer not before a Gremium of 600 people, or when a Member of Parliament, who is a representative of the district in particular, asks a question and receives an answer. There are no such extra expectations to record that type of activity. In this sense, I must say that we should not fail to overestimate the work of formalised bodies, my fellow Member Szilágyi. It's not just a job that can be done at a desk in this thing, just like I don't think it is either. But you know it's not just this negotiation, and you know it's not the only thing I'm talking about. I was talking about things that we didn't move forward and there were things that we didn't move forward in, really. In what kind of trees are to be cut down, the XIII. The district municipality also claims that they can cooperate well with the organizers. However, how the 20 became 50 billion forints failed to get an answer either from the district's parliamentary representative or from anyone who asked that question. I can also say that there is no answer in this story to why winners should be appointed in advance. There may be a reason for that, there is no problem with that, it can be explained, but there is no answer. And what other real estate is involved in the implementation, by the way, I have to say that the story has succeeded in an end. In one or two cases, when asked either by the municipality or by Mr Believer, why this is necessary now, when it turned out that it was not necessary, they were indeed willing to amend the list. But I have to say that we have not been able to come to the end of this in a reassuring way either. That's why I said the MSZP wasn't against the event. We're in favour of keeping this. We support you for all the things that everyone here in this House has said, and I have said it myself, Mr Believer. But we do not support the fact that the event will take place in a way that my colleague Szilágyi spoke about. He thinks they're okay that one thing grew from 20 to 50 billion, just like that. We don't think it's okay, but obviously we can think of that differently. [[12.40]] In the event that the kind of activity that you have been able to carry on in the first law will continue to take place in this way, the Hungarian Socialist Party will certainly support this proposal, but it is not the case at the moment. So I ask everyone not to save this kind of conciliation activity. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-30-62	Thank you very much. We will hear from Congressman György Szilágyi 54 seconds.
u2015-06-30-63	Thank you very much for the floor. They did not increase from 20 to 50 billion forints, the cost of this will be around 47 billion forints. [[Zoltán Haughty: Oh, good.]] That you're trying to say that is one thing. I have a more important question. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What is it? Did they involve you in the hand-out?]] 'Cause I'll see if I can find out if I have any extra information from you. So now you're saying that József Tóth, the XIII. Is the mayor of the district out of support for the water world? Because it is clear from his words that then the XIII. district. It would be nice to know because then things will change. As far as I know, they're all XIII. The district, both the capital and a certain part of the parliament, supports the organisation of the water World Championship. This creates a new situation if József Tóth, as MSZP mayor, thinks that he will get out from behind the support of the water world, because if there is no agreement with him, I think he will get bored sooner or later, and then he will quit. So I'd like an answer to that, maybe we can get some new information. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-64	Congressman Zoltán Lukács, MSZP.
u2015-06-30-65	Thank you very much. It is interesting to hear from Congressman Szilágyi that he has been attracted to the opposition all morning and does not know how to lick the Fidesz faction's hand. It's obviously interesting to hear, but we're not so surprised at that because we know what belongs together and what grows together after a while. Obviously, it doesn't bother you that - not 50 billion, but 47 billion - costs increase from 20 to 47 billion in two weeks, which doesn't bother Jobbik. This is the price of the 27 billion five or six new hospital pavilions, and that doesn't bother you, it's okay. It seems he doesn't care now that Mr. Garanchi gets this 50 billion without a tender. I don't know, did they include Jobbik in this story? Or I can't stop thinking about it, because you've been fighting and oligarching here, and now Mr. Garanchi is getting $50 billion in his pocket without a tender, and you're here to tell me that it's all right. Then let's say: Fidesz is behind Mr. Garancsi in this matter, and the Jobbik is behind Fidesz in this matter, and he is talking in a completely pointless way about the fact that when a World Water Championship is held, anyone who draws attention to the fact that they are stealing here again, here again, the fidesz oligarchs receive ten billion without a tender, and does not support the World Championship. I think it's someone who supports the World Championship, who agrees with that, and who, by the way, pays attention to the details. Then today in this House it was revealed that Fidesz, the Jobbik, together with Mr. Garancsi, would put 47 billion in his pocket here. In any case, this has been instructive. Thank you.
u2015-06-30-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Bánki Erik if he wishes to react. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] It says yes. You've got 10 minutes and 40 seconds tops. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Zoltán Lukács: I didn't go home!]] I would like to respond in any case to what has been said in this debate, just because we are once again having a instructive debate. I have been used to my fellow opposition Members not necessarily reading the legislative proposals that we are debating, and, if they had read it, they would not have talked about it at all. In the current situation, I think we may have seen the same thing: Zoltán Lukács spoke of virtually nothing other than the mergers around the phantomized investments by him [[Zoltán Lukács: I haven't even gone home yet, Erik!]] About the investment costs that you have otherwise misplaced completely. In this House, too, it has been said several times, but the Commissioner himself said in several forums, the Secretary of State here in Parliament just yesterday gave an answer three times: the cost of building the swimming pool, HUF 47 billion, the total investment with roads, spaces, all kinds of infrastructure investments, I note, most of which is led by the MSZP mayor and the MSZP majority assembly. It'll enrich the perimeter. [[Zoltán Lukács: And the one who builds it!]] That is why from the beginning we thought that, in such a case, when the investment was basically, almost 100% of the amount of the XIII. You're going to increase and enrich the district, at least you're going to have to deal with the mayor and the congressmen, and you're going to negotiate such matters. It was a technical bill, a general political debate was held in some cases by opposition representatives. István Ikotity joined in this, and now I must say really, Mr. Congressman, if there is anything in the Hungarian Parliament, any question from space research to the operation of the Academy of Sciences, there are two things that can come to their mind: Paks II. and sustainable development, green affairs. Honourable Congressman, During these discussions on the investment, all expected developments related to the investment were agreed from tree to tree, from meter to meter. Mr. Mayor of the District. I do not think that, by the way, a mayor and a body of representatives with a very strong legitimacy would have been willing to support a programme that was set out in Annex XIII to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. You wouldn't have gone through enough district green questions. I think that you, too, should sometimes take the time to find out details, rather than press such a basic political text in Parliament, because after a while it becomes so cliché that you will not have the effect that you would like to have with it that your voters or those who voted for you understand what you are talking about. It is not my place to defend the speeches of the better Members, but I would certainly reflect on the words of Zoltán Lukács. So Jobbik is the opposition to Jobbik? No. I think we have seen constructive opposition from Jobbik on both the Olympics and the water world on the two legislative proposals today. [[Zoltán Lukács: I said, friendship is great!]] The opposition to the opposition was you, Congressman Luke, the MSZP, who, on the other hand, showed an incomprehensible turn on the Olympic Act, and now, in the case of a technical bill, they are talking about all kinds of corruption mergers. [[Zoltán Lukács: Why wasn't there a tender?]] [[Zoltán Lukács: Why wasn't there a tender?]] which has nothing to do with a bill on the installation of a temporary bleachers. (Zoltán Lukács: Why wasn't there a tender?) It's not a problem either, they can obviously do it, I think it doesn't belong here, it wasn't a question of today. [[Zoltán Lukács: Why wasn't there a tender? Can I have two words about that?]] One thing is an undisputed fact. [[Zoltán Lukács: It can't be.]] : if we believe that we can make this investment in record time, I think it can be another milestone for Hungary's prestige. I would also like to draw your attention to two dates: August 2017, when the World Championships of the World Water Championships and the related World Championships are closed, and then 15 September 2017, when the International Olympic Committee decides in Lima about the Olympics' settlement applications in 2024. I think that a successful World Water Championship can also make a very big contribution to the success of an Olympic competition, which is why I would ask you to try, as far as possible, to rise above the petty party interests, and really to treat the World Water Championship as a national matter, because I think that with this success we can significantly help the success of our Olympic tender. Thank you very much for your attention, and please support this bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on 6 July. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The T/5145. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2015-06-30-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/5145 amending certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee has made its own amendment proposal, which assists law enforcement, given that the legal relationship between the heads of central offices and government offices is insufficiently regulated by the laws in force. [[12.50]] The Committee adopted that proposal with 23 yes, 9 no and 1 abstentions. The government's determined objective is to reduce the scope and extent of the benefits that have been made available to date. On this basis, a review of the Government Decree on benefits and conditions for public officials of state managers and public administrations has been carried out and a new draft regulation has been drawn up. In preparing the new government regulation, the primary objective of the legislator was to ensure that the benefits of the heads of government management or supervision standing bodies were not adapted to the benefit of a state leader, but that the government was entitled to regulate these benefits at the level of the regulation. This allows for the differentiation of benefits for state managers and other managers. The aim of the bill is to create the necessary legislative rules for the development of this regulatory model in order to reduce public debt, thereby ensuring the necessary legal powers to establish rules at regulation level. I believe that it may not be difficult to agree with the importance of all this, since this would be in the national interest. In view of the above, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report with 23 yes, 9 no and 1 abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-30-70	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum timeframe of seven minutes. I give the floor to Zoltán Grimlock, please.
u2015-06-30-71	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The title of the bill submitted and the intention, I would say, would be quite all right, but with the Secretary of State, we had a rather serious debate at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, whether this intention itself or the former pro-government, fidesz sayings and practices meet. What we have seen here in recent times is that gradually and continuously news about various luxury roads has come to light, and after they have come to light and many other things, they will immediately make public interest data requests pay, so that they will not happen again; and I think that it should not be paid, but that we should stop polishing, I said that there too. What I see is that the promise that Fidesz wanted a cheaper state was far from true at the time of the change of government in 2010. The cheaper state has become an effort in one or two places, at lower levels, in public administration offices, who have previously been designated senior officials, including in forestry services - we have also talked about this once with the Secretary of State on an issue - which I very much disapproved of, as well as restructuring itself, and the fact that the income of excellent professionals is decreasing by scale, which is unfortunate. But we see that since there has been a democratic parliamentary system in Hungary, there have never been so many state leaders in 25 years. The fact that they want to reduce this type of expenditure is an intention that is in order, and I also indicated that they want to give cabbage to a goat precisely, because one of the biggest travelers and the biggest spenders in the system is the minister who would be given the power to decide on his subordinates or the other state leaders what kind of reimbursement he might have. In addition, he immediately lied to himself, as after not having probably been able to pass a two-thirds law so that Members of Parliament could become Presidents of the County Council, more specifically of the Regional Development Council, so they came up with the idea that from now on they would become Ministers. At first, there was no extra allowance for this, and then they realized that there was one of them who wasn't a congressman, so obviously we should give him something. He was also given the Deputy State Secretary's salary, which, I think, is broadly acceptable, there are plenty of Deputy State Secretarys, and there are also about four or five times more of the State Secretary than at the time of previous governments, but there has been an immediate increase in the income of the Members involved. Here, though, several people have indicated that some have become less, who have something else in Parliament, but let us not forget that most of them have received an additional HUF 270 thousand allowance in addition to the salary of the Members of the so far Deputy State Secretary. So the problem with this bill is, and that is why we have indicated that we are not going to support it, because the intention and practice are very, very far apart here, and we do not trust the executive organization that once again promises to do so, that once there are legal ceilings, it will take it back. If they wanted to reduce it, then they should have written in the law when they could, and in some cases they would have taken back substantially the spending that is currently taking place in the public sector. So that's all I wanted to say as a minority opinion, and we still disagree with the luxury of the government or government in the country where 4.2 million people are struggling for their daily livelihood. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-30-72	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to take the floor now. [[L. Simon László says no.]] He doesn't want to. Then we'll get back to work. I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Member who has applied in advance, who is Mr Zoltán Lukács, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-73	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. We have already said in the debate that we do not believe that Fidesz's proposal is credible, because it has been talking about the cheaper state for a long time, and it has been saying for a long time that he is solving government at a cheaper and more efficient rate, and the number of state leaders is constantly increasing, at the moment there are more than a hundred Deputy State Secretarys, 54 State Secretarys and 11 Ministers. I just want to remind you that the last socialist government, when it resigned, was half of what had been the number of state leaders, and you doubled it over the two cycles, and now you're talking about making it cheaper. We say that, on the one hand, it could be made much cheaper not by reducing salaries and not by reducing salaries, but by reducing the number of state leaders, it could be made much cheaper, because only part of the cost of state managers is income, so the cost of state managers other than income is still quite high, we know: car use, driver, secretariat and so on. This does not appear in their wage costs, but all in all, if you look at the labour cost alone, it is 2.3 billion, but we can count at least double that, if not more, if you look at their costs. We also say that this proposal is not credible because we had a bill on 10 February, a few months ago, which was about to cut government costs, but you swept it off the table without debate. That bill was about eliminating this pro-government leadership stockpiling, because we believe that it is one of the manifestations of corruption and one of the biggest money that could be saved. But the majority of the Justice Commission's pro-government committee has not included this proposal in a series of subjects either. This proposal would have offered a real solution, as opposed to what the appearance measures that have just been submitted are. The problem is that you didn't agree with what we said, as we said in our proposal, that the Prime Minister shouldn't be able to give the Prime Minister a mandate corresponding to the payment of State Secretary, because then it would have been a cost reduction - they weren't willing to deal with it either. We know that as a number of state executive ministerial commissioners, he is still getting paid, and sometimes he is getting a job that he should be doing in connection with his position as a state manager anyway, but he is getting a special assignment, and he is getting paid separately. This can't be kept, by the way. So, your bill only contains a budget cut in its title. We also said in the debate that it was small money, great rigour; big money, small rigour. [[13.00]] What you're trying to tell us is that we don't care about anything, we vote for your proposal, which has nothing else in it, but it says that there will be a minister who will certainly reduce the costs, there will be a government decree that we can't see here, and we can't talk about it, but we just have to believe that you will reduce the costs in that government decree. The problem is, we're back in the same place, we're not exactly in a position to believe that. If you really wanted to reduce these costs, then on the one hand, you would have supported our proposal, which would have meant a real cost reduction, or if you did not want to support it, at least you would have put in place a bill in which it is specifically written down and Parliament can vote on what will happen in this matter. But there is nothing written here except that Parliament should give you the authority to do so at the level of regulation and at ministerial level in their respective competences, and that Parliament will no longer have any say in this. Therefore, if we vote in favour of this now, then, in extreme cases, these costs may also increase, and Parliament will not have any say in this either, because with this legislation it has passed this right to the level of regulation and has given this right to the Minister. That is why we have said that if this intention were real, then this law would not be about that, then this law would state specifically what it is about, but in this law you want to shift it only from Parliament's jurisdiction to your own jurisdiction, so that there is no say in it. As a result, we cannot support this law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-30-74	Thank you very much. Speaking as a normal suitor, Congressman President Novak is now taking the floor, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I must continue to call political job accumulation a legal form of political crime, even though I know that it is offensive to many people - of course to such political criminals - but I still ask you to accept it, because I accept it, I know that you, who have grown into it, have socialized in this, that this kind of political job accumulation was natural in your party, and you considered it normal. Yet we are XXI. As a party of the century, we would like to break up with so far's practices, whether it's a political stockpiling. [[L. Simon László: Family job accumulation?]] We may have spoken more easily, because we have already put this kind of self-limitation in our statutes outside of Parliament, and I do not know if if I would make this proposal today, I would be able to bring it through my own community, such an amendment. [[L. Simon László: Husband and wife representative.]] which, at the same time, was succeeded outside Parliament. So I am trying to empathize with this issue, yet I maintain my view that this is indeed a legal form of political crime. I say this because not only do I think it is a blatant social injustice that someone takes on a full-time salary from several places, but also cannot honour the task of, for example, the Prime Minister's Office of 10 hours a day, and compared to that, we can see that there are some, for example, Deputy State Secretary, who has taken up a full-time salary from four places. This is unacceptable, and I think that needs to be changed. Jobbik has also been able to change from opposition, because not only did we set a good example, but there has obviously been such serious social resistance in this case, such widespread social outrage, which has led the MSZP to talk about political job accumulation now, even though it was not just Fidesz, MSZP, and obviously even if they had elected several of their representatives as mayors. But even in 2010, in addition to Jobbik, all parties, including MSZP, LMP, brought in a parliamentary representative who was later allowed to be elected mayor. We also won the interim mayor elections, yet we were serious about the parliamentary assembly being a full-time job. And somewhere here we should start reducing state leadership benefits, so that the Members of Parliament will set a good example in the front and show that the responsibilities of the Honatya are a job, and that the management of a small settlement is no longer an option. That is why we said that we should not be able to take office as mayor and municipal representatives of a Member of Parliament, and I am glad that our proposal was swept off at the beginning, but could later - as a fidesz proposal - have been realized, and since last autumn, since the last municipal elections, the mayor of a settlement has finally been the mayor of the settlement, and there is no reason for him to be here in Parliament, while he does not participate in the debates here because he claims to be dealing with the settlement's affairs and who knows, he may be sipping coconut juice on the island of Hawaii. Because even the right to vote can be exercised in the process, because in committees you can vote not by raising your hands, but by raising your hands directly, because you can also pass on the right to vote. Not yet at this plenary session, they have not yet gone this far, only to the fact that the votes are blocked away from the debates, then it is not possible to comment within a minute before the votes, as it might have been a few years ago. They can't even listen to this either, only these mameluks are willing to participate in the block votes, who have also dragged the authority of the Parliament into the mud. That is why it is important that we really change that, because you have created new loopholes. For example, the heads of district and county government offices could be Members of Parliament, and, to this day, it is still current that a Member of Parliament can not only be filled, he can also receive remuneration for the office of government commissioner, prime minister commissioner, prime minister commissioner or ministerial commissioner. Perhaps the latter is the most common, the Minister's Commissioner, which is a typically political commissary position in most cases. We see that they seem to have assigned some task; Commissioner for Road Affairs, and how many more of these things we have heard, as these are often accompanied by extra compensation or some kind of bonus, provided such, and this is truly unacceptable. And the MSZP rightly says that the number of State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys has doubled. Hypocrites are reduced, possibly reduced, we do not see this in this proposal yet, but they may reduce some management benefits, while more jobs and therefore, overall, some Fidesz sympathisers, I think, will eventually receive more benefits, because, contrary to the current general rules, we will leave to János Lázár what kind of benefits the state leader will receive. So if, let's say, the head of the Central Statistical Office might put inappropriate numbers on the table, then it's possible that some kind of allowance will be withdrawn. This may just be levitated, and they may just feel that, as we say, many of the editors in the media law felt that they needed to resort to self-censorship, because the legal situation is unclear. It's something like this happening right now, and floating it like a club is not acceptable. And it is particularly cynical to entrust the creation of this regulation to John Lazarus, whose scandals have made the past few years loud. In the general debate, I have spoken here about the various slurrings of János Lázár since the pheasant holocaust, about his ability to bring together a hotel bill of 2 million forints in four nights, and where he went, for how much, he will not comment on this, even if he is required by a court. After this kind of cynicism, he will certainly be the one who should be the guarantee of a reduction in expenditure, since, unlike the title of this proposal, it is not about a reduction in state management benefits, but about the possibility of regulating it by the Minister. And how he's gonna regulate it, based on his record, is at least doubtful. It is clear that he will also be responsible for the regulation that this proposal is about, and therefore that the government can regulate it in its own jurisdiction and that they will not be linked to the system of state management benefits is in any way acceptable. I do not wish to discuss the specific matters of John Lazarus for a long time, but I think that they cannot have such a cynical attitude. We have already seen that often the preamble to a law, or perhaps its justification, is not due to the operative part. But the fact that the title of the bill itself is quite different from the content, and the title is a reduction in state management benefits, while this is not mentioned in the proposal, and even in several respects, abolishing the ceiling so far, ensures the possibility of ensuring growth, is unacceptable. I am very pleased that, in parallel with this proposal, the amendment of the Parliament Act has been adopted with the better proposal not to create yet another loophole for the job accumulation of politicians, and yet not to be able to delegate representatives in regional development councils, to represent ministers, or even to create this opportunity for an award. I am pleased that this proposal has been adopted, but I also ask that the other loopholes in political job accumulation be closed, in particular with regard to the positions of ministerial commissioner, on which unfortunately we do not see any guarantees in these amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-06-30-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react. Mr L. Simon László State Secretary. Here. [[13.10]]
u2015-06-30-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I have provided my fellow Members with all the necessary information both in my fellow State Secretary, Miklós Kis, in the national exposé and in the long debate of the Legislative Committee. I am sorry that some people enter the debate without reading the bill, at least there are interpretational problems with the bill. In any case, I ask Mr Novak for a little modesty, because when you and your wife are both sitting here in Parliament, I do not think that you should lecture the entire Parliament in that tone of voice about who is holding up what position and allow everyone to take their own time and work honestly. Some people are more efficient, and some people work not 8 hours, but 16 hours. So we should stop this filth, honourable Member, because it doesn't make much sense, and it certainly doesn't take us forward. Believe me, there are a lot of people in our ranks who ask how a husband-wife might be sitting in Parliament and raising three little children at home. By the way, we very much congratulate the Member on having three beautiful children. I would just like to say - because I can see now that you have pointed out the microphone and that you will be asking for a word in the name of personal attack - that you should take it back a little and, in a bill, talk about the bill in substance, and not about what is otherwise not true and unworthy, unworthy of Parliament, unworthy of the traditions of Hungarian public law, and, of course, I feel that it is unworthy of your faction, too, honourable Member. The truth is that in recent years we have created a legal system in which we have made it clear that we want the Members of Parliament to be primarily Members of Parliament, so there would not be mayors, county council presidents and the rest. This bill and this whole concept have been developed and carried through the House, and I do not believe that the results of this work should be carried out by itself, since this was clearly carried through by the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP. At the same time, I must protect everyone who has previously performed these two functions at the same time. It was legally possible, and it was also useful in that political situation in the case of a larger parliament, because they were able to represent their city effectively by those who were mayors. Of course, we have seen that this is not a good thing in terms of equal opportunities, because there are cities whose mayors cannot sit in here, they do not have the same option; this was one of the important arguments. The second is that if fewer Members of Parliament - instead of 386, the number of Members of Parliament became 199 - can effectively focus on increased districts, larger settlements, or larger numbers of people, and not perform other tasks. However, we all know that there are areas or jobs that can be filled, that can be a university teacher, say, someone in addition to a representativeship, can publish, and can have an income; obviously, when you publish, you have to write what you publish at some point, it also takes time; it can also be a practice of lawyers. Therefore, it cannot be said that there is no other way to earn income here than to represent Parliament for a Member of Parliament. And as Hungarian public-law traditions of course give it, parliamentary representatives can be governmental actors at the same time, they can be state ministers, ministers, government commissioners, ministerial commissioners. This is not a novelty in the Hungarian public-law system, this was the case between the two world wars, as was the case in the period of socialism, and since the change of regime, we have insisted on this tradition as well. There are countries where there is a different practice, where the enforcement and the legislative power do not come together in this way; we have this tradition, this practice. I ask that we accept that those who, at the same time, say, ministers, ministers of state and Members of Parliament, are doing their job with responsibility, integrity and the greatest possible energy. I only said that because the congressman didn't talk about the bill, but he was talking about political crime, job accumulation and everything, and he didn't see the beam in his own eyes anyway. So I'm asking you to be self-critical, let's be aware that we're not sure that everyone thinks the way you think, and I'm not sure that everyone sees what you think is right. Lecturing the Members of Parliament on moral grounds in a situation where you, by the way, have something to account for or you would have something to account for, I don't think it's worth it. On this proposal, I can say - and I said this at the Committee on Legislative Affairs - that this proposal does not increase state management benefits, but reduces state management benefits and makes it clear on what title and maximum income can be used. And when it comes to saying, let's say, that the Prime Minister's representative at most - that's what I tried to explain at the Legislative Committee - that this word has a meaning; it's not so complicated - that one can only get the Secretary of State's salary, that means that he can't get more than that, but his employer will decide whether he wants to draw that framework, or if he wants to give less benefits to the appointed person. So I think that our intention, our aim, is to make public leaders more transparent, to be clearer, to be sufficiently differentiated, and, by the way, to give the Minister sufficient room for manoeuvre as an employer, is well served by this legislative proposal, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support me. In conclusion, I will also say to my colleague Novak - because I see that he is very prepared - that I have tried to say all this with sufficient calmness that this should not be personal. So I don't necessarily want you to do the job of your representative, and you're not gonna change this whole style or the whole tone, your whole attitude, and you're always gonna think you're right. But I'm asking you to stop at least once in a while, think about it, and accept that some people think differently, think differently, think differently, think differently, think differently, and therefore want to run this country in a different way than you, fortunately, can't control it. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, Mr. President Novak has come forward on a case-by-case basis. Congressman, I must first ask you whether you are asking for the floor in order of business or because of personal involvement. [[Forebod Novak: Personal involvement.]] Well, now that the agenda is over, you have two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I find L. Simon László's attitude that he did not participate in the debate and reacted only as a closing word, in many cases untrue to our comments, so I will no longer be able to respond to it in substance. What he did, however, is his not only unmanly but rather unethical speech, in which he resented the fact that I met my beloved and present wife, Dóra Dúró, in public life. I would recommend that, since the change of regime, there have always been husband and wife members of the Parliament, there have been periods when they were members of five couples at once. I would also recommend that Viktor Orbán's wife was also the individual and listed candidate of Fidesz; it was not up to you, it wasn't up to Fidesen that he didn't join Viktor Orbán as a Member of Parliament, but on the voters. I would also like to pay attention to the words of János Lázár, who, in 2012, regarding Tünde Hando, who is the wife of Szájer, said, and I quote: "It is not our fault that the wives of Fidesz founders are talented people. Why should politicians' relatives be excluded from public life? According to this, Hillary Clinton couldn't be Secretary of State of the United States today. "János Lázár," said he, who had also been offended by the job accumulation of politicians, by defining him as a legal form of political crime, and for that reason he was a kind of revenge...
u2015-06-30-80	I'm asking you to justify your personal involvement, because Hillary Clinton is difficult for me to accept as the president of his personal interests. Please.
u2015-06-30-81	I understand, Mr. President. I would like to respond to the fact that there is a serious double standard in Fidesz. And I find it most unkind to bring the three children here to be raised. Yes, we are responsible for raising our children by working for both of us; there are many others in this country, both working and participating in child rearing. You, too, I'm sure, are raising your children with honor, even though you have a job. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We're doing everything we can. Luckily, we're in a position where all four grandparents can help, but bringing it here is definitely naughty. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-82	Thank you very much. Secretary of State L. Simon László asked to speak on behalf of the government. With all due respect, as you speak on behalf of the Government as Secretary of State, you will express your opinion accordingly. [[13.20]]
u2015-06-30-83	Mr President, Dear House, I would simply like to conclude this debate by saying that we did not say that the Hungarian legal order should be changed in such a way that there should be no husband and wife in Parliament. It would be against fundamental democratic rights; everyone can choose and everyone can choose, except those who are banned from public affairs. We only draw attention to the fact that, if that is the case, and otherwise it is okay - of course it is not compulsory to live with it, because it is not compulsory for a couple to be on a party list of both members, to appoint themselves - but if that is the case, then at least who is in this position should not instruct others in Parliament. Of course, the people who worked here as a married couple or as brothers and sisters and sat here in Parliament, they did not do the same manifestations in Parliament as those made by Congressman Novak. So once again, I didn't mean to be personal, I also acknowledge your wife's work, and I congratulated you on my speech earlier on your beautiful children. So, Congressman, not only was my comment unethical or unmanly, but I just wanted to point out that we are not measuring double standards, but you are. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-84	Now, please, I'm glad we got to the point of respecting each other's families, but the Parliament is not a family business, so I'm asking you all to maintain the authority of the Parliament together. Plus, I have an obligation to warn you of that as the president. Well, then we're past that, so we'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the development and deployment of electronic communications services and infrastructure, amendments to the legislation on accessibility of the legislative framework and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The T/5051. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Roland Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee discussed T/5051. The draft law on the promotion of the development, deployment of electronic communications services and infrastructure, amendments to the legislation on the accessibility of the legislative framework, and the committee presented 26 amendments and a summary report, with six votes in favour and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contained a three-point technical proposal of the Economic Committee containing clarification of linguistic location. The bill is 2. Paragraph 1 of Article 2 (1) of the Law-making Committee provided a fundamental clause on the indication of the MSZP, the need for which was decided unanimously by the Committee. Please, ladies and gentlemen, support the bill, including the achievement of our objectives set out in the national info-communication strategy and in the Digital National Development Programme. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to give his opinion now. Yeah. [[L. Simon László: No!]] No! I got it right then. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Member who has applied in advance, who is the representative of the MSZP, Mr Árpád Velez. Here.
u2015-06-30-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Socialist Party agrees with the aim of the bill, and supports it because Hungary really needs to spread high-speed communications networks as widely as possible. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-06-30-88	I thank you very much for your exhausting opinion, which seems to have triggered applause not only in the ranks of the opposition but also in the benches of the ruling party. Let's keep it that way. As a result, I give the floor to Congressman President Novak, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After this large speech, allow me to make some criticism as an opposition representative, since we do not always see guarantees behind the sound of goals. So in the summary amendment proposal, I was pleased to read when I saw that Article 2 Article 22/A However, when I saw that this was only a matter of language positioning, I was no longer satisfied. I have already said in the general debate that it is quite difficult for me to believe that this is about the transfer of business secrets, which, although required to be dealt with in accordance with data protection rules, we are aware of what this can mean in reality. In this case, if such a legal exception had already been made for the transfer of business secrets, we would have expected more serious guarantees, a more serious discussion of this, and unfortunately we do not see this in the summary amendment proposal. Unfortunately, we would rather have been able to talk more about the issue of free internet. Yesterday, Secretary of State Ákos Kara questioned in his reply whether the basic internet proposed by Jobbik could be achieved from the revenue of the advertising tax, while he asked us the question in his other question, which I could no longer answer, which internet Jobbik was thinking of: some kind of slow, reduced internet? So if he had any question about what we would like to introduce with a basic Internet title, even in this bill, then I think he cannot be responsible for his statement that this is not enough for the ad tax to amount to HUF 10 billion in scale or, in the future, much more revenue is expected to be made. I've been able to tell you so much if it hadn't been clear to him so far - although I'm afraid it was only hypocrisy - that we wouldn't slow down the Internet, but we would limit the amount of data that is available free of charge. So we would not offer free access to movies or download movies, but we would provide free access to electronic administration, for example. And that is why we say that it would be feasible, and even the mobile operators themselves, which are thus, and are now, benefiting from this bill and from time to time, could also be implemented with a small amount of state aid, which could otherwise be seen as a present bill, and in return we could implement the free internet. It is also in their interest, as many will subscribe to a larger service after using a limited package. So if we introduce to the world of the Internet those who have been outside - whether Viktor Orbán or those who, say, have not met for any other reason, have not yet become friends with the Internet - most of them, by the way - against Viktor Orbán - obviously have not reached the point of being able to subscribe to the Internet or buy a computer for financial reasons, but the reason is no matter what. However, one thing is certain: if we introduce many people into the world of the Internet, then the service providers themselves may have an interest in this, as many will then subscribe to a larger service, who will not be satisfied with one or two gigabytes of data traffic per month. By the way, along with this business policy, one Hungarian mobile company already gives a half-gigabyte internet access to certain voice-based subscriptions for free. And there are also international examples, such as last autumn in New York, of how they can earn up to $500 million in revenue - advertising revenue over a 12-year horizon - in the framework of a free Wi-Fi service covering the entire New York area. I am also very pleased that the Fidesz majority voted to investigate how to ensure free WiFi access throughout Budapest, following the proposal of our Member of the capital of Tokody. Indeed, it would be good for them to realize what they were feeling in opposition, Zsolt Nyitrai himself, your specialist politician, said that the Internet is a genre of freedom, not the prevailing trends in the world to tax the Internet, but to make it more free, more accessible to all our countrymen. That's what the Fidesz politician said back in 2008 in the opposition, and now they won't talk about it. I would ask you that, in such proposals, which could be linked, for example, to negotiations with Internet service providers, when granting such benefits by law, by creating the free basic internet and making it available to all Hungarian citizens, this would be correct and justified. It would have been appropriate to try to link our proposal and to initiate some kind of negotiations with Internet service providers, taking into account our proposal in the general debate. I'm really sorry we can't see this, how we can't see 22/A. Nor guarantees of the transfer or transfer to government of business secrets governed by paragraph 2 of Section 2. It is therefore a little uncertain for us how we will take part in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] In addition, there are no guarantees regarding the transfer or transfer to government of business secrets governed by paragraph 1 of this Article. It is therefore a little uncertain for us how we will take part in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. (Applause from Jobbik's ranks. ) [[13.30]]
u2015-06-30-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. Secretary of State L. Simon László, here you go.
u2015-06-30-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, I personally participated in all stages of the debate, both in plenary and in Commission debates. About the same characters who have spoken here today in the closing debate. We haven't heard any new aspects. I hope that all factions will support this in tomorrow's final vote, since this bill clearly ensures the spread of broadband internet and access to it as widely as possible, which I believe is a national strategy and national economy goal. So I would ask my fellow Members, along with the amendments, to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-92	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The T/5052. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2015-06-30-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. T/5052 on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions, without voting against. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, almost all the points in the motion of the Committee on Welfare, and, on the other hand, the legislative committee's own amendment, which clarifies the committee's text. The Legislative Committee found point 21 of the amendment proposal of the People's Welfare Committee to be over-expansioned, so it did not support this provision in order to comply with house rules. I would like to point out from the proposed amendment that has been adopted that I myself tabled and received unanimous support from the Legislative Committee as well as from the previous meeting of the Committee on Welfare. In the case of home assistance, the increase in the fee for people with low incomes and high care needs would have been unfairly burdensome, so my amendment suggested that these provisions be removed from the bill, which I believe is important in Pestszentlőrincen, Pestszentimrén or in any settlement in the country. I would also like to point out from the summarised amendment that, in addition to the municipalities with the mayor's office, the municipal authority of the joint municipal office is obliged to provide the family and child welfare centre; whereas the family and child welfare centre will no longer be required to operate in settlements with more than 40 thousand inhabitants, but in all settlements. I would like to draw attention to the need to prepare family and child welfare centres in the district for new tasks, to carry out procedures for registration of service providers and to establish professional cooperation. Therefore, the entry into force of the provisions is 1 January 2016. In view of the measures to be taken by this date, the date of entry into force of the transitional rules shall be 1 August 2015. By way of derogation from the above, the date of entry into force of the provision providing for a case management task related to assisted housing is 1 January 2017. The mandatory introduction of kindergarten and school social assistance is 1 January 2018. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-30-94	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. Congressman László Kiss, here you go.
u2015-06-30-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As said earlier, the Legislative Committee accepted the report itself with eight abstentions. In fact, I would like to explain the arguments behind this kind of vote in the debate. First thing. I must say that the proposal has improved somewhat during the legislative procedure. Let us recall that, in the past, there was a very important need to tighten up remuneration among the rules on home assistance. This has been reduced or altered by a proposal from its representatives. We also supported this in the course of the procedure, because we thought that the amendments concerning home assistance went in a very wrong direction. These have changed somewhat in the course of the procedure, and we voted in favour of these proposals ourselves. However, other changes to home assistance may not help the objectives for which the institution of home assistance itself is an institution, but we do not consider the rules concerning this to be entirely appropriate. In the case of measures to help victims of domestic violence, we can say that we believe that these have taken steps in the right direction, but are not sufficient. There are also very important changes in the material before us, but the new measures, novels, do not appear. It is also very important that they do not appear, because recent events, I can say, call for the strengthening of the child protection system as an urgent need, and it must be done not only in words, but also in actions. However, these actions are lacking. From the background of the Legislative Committee, the opposition primarily supported proposals to abandon the introduction of the planned minimum fee for home assistance and supported those that improved this proposal. However, I have to say that this has not been a success in its entirety, and this proposal has not become eligible either, which is why we abstained from the final vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-30-96	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State will indicate that at the end. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Sándor Kovács, rapporteur of the designated Welfare Committee. Congressman, please.
u2015-06-30-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, T/5052 on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws. The detailed discussion of the Bill No 1 was conducted and concluded by the National Welfare Committee as designated committee at its meeting on 17 June 2015 as required. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with house rules 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The bill is set out in Annex III of 1993 on social management and social benefits. Act XXXI of 1997 on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration Act CXCI of 2011 on the care of persons with disabilities and the modification of certain laws. contains amendments to the Act. With the measures contained in the bill, we will continue to take steps towards a fairer, more transparent and more targeted social care system. Social assistance and personal care activities are divorcing each other. In order to reduce illegal services, the tools of control authorities will be expanded. A further key element of the bill is the return of the basic Community supply of support services, psychiatric patients and addicts financed by a tender, through a financing contract, to the so-called normative support scheme. The further purpose of the amendment to the Child Protection Act is to ensure that the special element of the care system for victims of contact violence, the secret safe house, is recognised in the law. The amendment to the Law on persons with disabilities proposes certain changes in the review of persons with disabilities to exempt persons who reach the retirement age within five years. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee discussed the amendments tabled by its representatives, examining whether they were in compliance with the house rules 42. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The board of the house rules 45. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5, the Commission has tabled a proposal for an amendment of 27 points, which includes a proposal for an amendment by its assisted representatives, which includes a detailed debate. [[13.40]] My fellow Members and I voted in favour of adopting the report on the detailed debate. The report on the detailed debate was adopted by 9 votes to five, with no abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-98	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén, who will present the minority opinion of the committee.
u2015-06-30-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the detailed debate of the committee, the opposition raised a problem with opposition amendments, on the one hand with regard to the administrative obligation of the family support service regarding the first interview, the MEP, the member of the committee, challenged it and raised his concerns about the data protection of our amendment. In addition, there has been a serious debate on the Commission's amendment. I myself resented at the committee's meeting that it was a very serious Commission amendment, a very detailed and professionally important amendment, a serious amendment. Compared to this, the members of the Committee could only get to know this amendment the evening before the committee meeting, so there was not enough time to prepare for it, and I could even say that the sudden submission of this amendment to the Commission's amendment, even though it has a rather serious impact on their lives, has made it impossible for the members of the child welfare and family support services to come to terms with it. Even if we agree that it is appropriate to combine these two services from certain technical aspects, we do not agree with this procedure, that as a Commission amendment, we have a few hours to process it and make a substantive statement about it. On the other hand, there are questions raised in the Commission's amendment itself. One of these questions was why this important service can be integrated either with a health institution or an educational institution, when in its profile we can talk about a completely different service or other activity. In addition, financial issues have been raised. The amendment suggests that there will be an increase in the number of people serving this service, as the amendment can be read by the fact that several municipalities now have an obligation to operate this service on their own. The question on the part of the opposition was whether the municipalities would receive additional funding to provide this service. We have not received a reassuring response to this, nor have we received a concrete and reassuring response at the committee meeting as to whether this integrated child welfare service can continue to be carried out in association. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, the first of which is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here.
u2015-06-30-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the modernisation and efficiency of the social system if this strengthens the reduction of access and territorial inequalities and does not adversely affect the beneficiaries. We considered the elimination of free home care and the possibility of free provision to be particularly harmful, and we welcome Mr Kucsák's amendment that we have managed to address this problem and, in the end, do not pay for this basic care for everyone. A number of technical amendments show how concerned the government is about the efficient use of public funds; another administrative burden for family supporters. It is a pity that this concern is always expressed by the government in the social field, and in other areas it would be good to see it. We support measures to help victims of domestic violence, and we consider it important for the government to help children and parents who have become victims as much as possible. At the same time, my fellow Member has also mentioned to me that we are not far ahead in this draft law, and we would like to see that the government is really taking sides with the victims in order to strengthen the child protection system. Releasing the review of the age-limited disabled by admitting that a huge failure is the transformation of disability care. It is not only for those affected, but also for the government, who has not been able to deal with this situation - perhaps fortunately - because at least some of them will receive immunity from it. Unfortunately, the lives of tens of thousands of people and families have so far been ruined by declaring sick, disabled people healthy or healthier than they are, reducing or completely eliminating their care. We could also say that we consider it a sly solution that a number of provisions were opened in the original proposal which at that time did not contain any substantive amendment, and now it seems that these sections have gained meaning, because the Commission's amendments have already substantially amended a number of such provisions. I can only join my fellow Member that it does not work that we received the material at about 4:45 p.m. the day before such a law, and that the government has every right to expect us to prepare the next day; only with such an amendment, such a law, I think it should be possible for people to be fully prepared, or even professional organisations to speak to it. We don't understand why we had to rush again. Why have they not been able to formulate these amendments when submitting the proposal? We also do not understand why if something comes into force in three years' time, it will be included in the regulation under such circumstances, which is likely to be amended several times. I think it'd be better if we didn't hurry up sometimes, maybe better laws could be made. We would support the strengthening of family support, child welfare services, if we were sure that these steps were exactly that. However, we believe that this should have been preceded by a much more serious debate. I'd like to ask you a few more questions if you're already here. Why is it good that only child welfare centres can initiate future protection or temporary placement and upbringing of the child in the event of a more serious risk? Why is it good that in the future only the centres will be allowed to have family therapy sessions or contacts? How does this strengthen the child protection system? Once again, instead of bringing the necessary services as close as possible and ordering adequate human resources and infrastructure, they will only be available in walking centres on the basis of their more efficient security. It will be a very big problem that centralization is happening again, rather than directing it towards access to care for every family in need. I don't think there should have been any rush. This law should be discussed in a much larger circle, and perhaps these laws would be better. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply to the questions asked. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-30-102	Thank you very much. Mr Sebestyén Editor is the next speaker, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-30-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Contrary to what I said in the Commission's minority opinion - where I had to present opposition arguments in the committee - I agree with the amendment that the first interview with family support services - if the case is closed - must be written and administered. In particular, I consider this not financially and financially verifiable, but in order that if that family, that client, re-enters the field of vision of the family support service, becomes a client, then colleagues can set up a medical history, and the colleagues can start the case again as no longer unknown, but they know the history, and they can actually continue to care and help that person. I have a lot of questions about this proposal, by the way. I am thinking mainly of the Commission's amendment here. [[13.50]] On the one hand, as I said in the Commission's minority opinion, it is unworthy that we have had so little time to prepare. I also think it is unworthy that such a very important change would be included in such a law as a Commission amendment. I think that would have been worth a separate bill, because it is transforming and transforming a fairly significant part of the social profession to the extent that I think we should have discussed within these frameworks. This also implies that many questions arise and leave a lot of questions open, not specific. That's why I'd say he's a paranoid paranoid. I discussed this amendment with the profession the morning of the committee meeting, and we have been discussing it ever since. One of the main concerns was that although it is technically understandable to merge the two services, even those within the profession in the last five years have unfortunately found that if any of the areas - because this is not just a social area - are merged, it is accompanied by a reduction. Their fear is right, because if we look at this Commission amendment, and when we see the full and complete bill at the end, we can actually read the downsizing, but we can also see the increase in the number of people. The answer is unclear, but we didn't get a clear answer. Also, Deputy State Secretary Nitrai said that there will be no cuts, but we have heard many of these statements before merging that there will be no cuts. The other worrying thing I have already said, although it was also included in the original law that it could be integrated into a health and education institution, but if we say that there must be an independent institution for this combined service, then I do not understand professionally why it could be integrated with an educational or health institution. However, we have also received no concrete answer, and I also expect a concrete answer from Mr Secretary of State on whether this task will now be possible in partnership or not. At the committee meeting, I listened to the reply of the Deputy State Secretary and then read the Commission's report, but the answer is not clear to me. Not only from the amendment, but also from the reply, it can be concluded that both can be provided in an association or not in an association. These questions are of great concern, and I would like to be answered in any case. Although it contains good elements, it is precisely the lack of development that makes me worried, not only me, but also - once again - those involved in the profession. I also welcome the accepted pro-government amendment that the full package has abolished the mandatory remuneration for home assistance. I think that this service is aimed at a layer where, even if a minimum amount is set, there may be very serious consequences of a compulsory fee. However, I must say now, as I said in the general debate, that the regulation on the basis of which the points were raised entered into force in January. It's been six months since the law came into force. There is such a long empty section, and those people - just the original, the old provision and the provision now in force - who are in those five points of need intervals, and who have been applying for home assistance as a new admissions candidate since January, have been without care, although in my opinion they already belong to a category that, if nothing else, at least they need mental treatment, mental care, so that they need some level of home assistance. The other issue of concern is that those who will not belong to home assistance but to the lower category will filter those who will be able to do this care activity there. I am very afraid that what has long been planned to be confirmed is that they will try to get public workers to perform this task. But we know that even among the ladies, especially in North-East Hungary, there are people in the community work programme who are guilty and even dangerous to let around vulnerable elderly people. I believe that this can only be achieved if people who are going through a very serious filter can perform this task later on. Because think of the fact that people who actually go to vulnerable, defenseless old people as helpers are people who may have ulterior motives. These are the answers I would expect from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-104	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to LMP, the summary amendment of the Social Salad Law for many years contains two very important elements. On the one hand, the tightening of the original text in relation to the fee for home assistance will be abolished. This has already been announced in the general debate by Minister of State for Social Affairs Károly Czibere. This was justified by the fact that the form of the proposal contained in the draft was not nuanced enough. In fact, even the pro-government faction has indicated that it will not support this. So by the time the proposal came before Parliament, there was no government support behind it, and the social secretary of state had to back off. The LMP agrees with the abolition of security, and agrees that the government has changed its mind. We have also indicated earlier that we cannot accept a significant reduction in the number of elderly, sick people in need who can use home assistance free of charge. We do not agree with tightening up, especially after a significant increase in the eligibility threshold for access to the service at the beginning of the year. Now only people in need of care in many ways are entitled to care. Who, according to the government, are less sick, to travel, to shop, to clean, to care for themselves, not to help them. In many cases, however, they also need care. How do they say they don't deserve help? The government hunts the alleged stowaways when it tries to squeeze them out of home assistance, either by tightening the score on care needs or by withholding free of charge, rather than by controlling service providers. It is not the elderly, sick people who should be caught in the neck, but the service providers who abuse the system should be punished. Reinforcing the need for care or eliminating freeness is unfair because it can push people in need out of care. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The other important amendment concerns the cornerstones of social services. We find it quite amazing that such important amendments are being introduced in a motion before the final vote, even if these changes have recently been purged in the press. This attitude reflects the interruption of the legislative process, the disdain of social consultations and the debate in Parliament. This is the case even if we see positive steps. They shouldn't be sewed into the law text at the last moments. More specifically, family support and child welfare centres will be combined, and a new integrated institution will be created. It is an old professional debate on whether there is any point in separating family supporters and children's welfare centres, or whether this is unnecessary and should be combined. We find outstanding examples of both solutions. Experience shows that where good workshops have been established and there is excellent cooperation with the maintenance municipality, there is also a justification for a separate institutional model. Overall, we are not opposed to the merger, since in many places it is a serious professional dilemma to consider which institution should take the case, to approach the social problem from the family's or the child's side. The new unified case management can bring about the release of capacities and the elimination of duplication in many places, while unfortunately there will be settlements where the separation has worked professionally and effectively, and professional values may be lost after the merger. There will therefore also be losses to this amendment. The obligation to provide services to help the family and to set up new centres of family and child welfare is amended in such a way as to facilitate access to assistance. However, the question for LMP is whether adequate financial resources and professional capacity will be available in municipalities to strengthen basic services. That doesn't turn out to be the law. [[14.00]] If these cardinal changes are introduced not in a mature process, but in the summary amendment, there is no reassuring answer to that. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-30-106	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I would like to ask my fellow Members whether, in accordance with the time-frame, there is still someone else who wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Charles Czibere: Yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank you, first of all, for the opinions and proposals that have been expressed. I am pleased that the objective of developing a more transparent, sustainable, fairer, more targeted and more effective system in the systems of child welfare, child protection and social services, both in the Commission's negotiations and in the proposals, comments and at the time, has been clearly formulated in the general debate. I think that the package that is in front of you now meets these objectives. And then let's go, I think, in order of comments. The first is child welfare. Yes, I myself believe that such a far-reaching proposal to strengthen the child welfare system should be incorporated into the law itself and put in place. We will follow this later, of course, as this was a one-time, exceptional occasion, because until the last moment, for the last seconds, we expected the budget foot of this proposal, because the fact that we can formally submit this is that it is justified in the social law and then in the implementing regulation, which many of you have asked here what is going to happen to the financial consequences, so that we can give this to Parliament in a credible way, it was important that the model calculations for all types of settlements should be prepared in time, because if they clearly predict that this system is sustainable from a financial point of view, then it is well founded. We have seen a lot of legislative proposals in the past when financing issues were not considered this way, it was important to have funding. I would like to point out that funding for child welfare services will increase by 10 percent next year. This is included in the budget law voted on. So HUF 460 million is the additional resource in the 2016 budget to strengthen child welfare services. So when it was suggested that we merge, so we cut down, I would like to rebut this very strongly. One, there's no downsizing. What is happening here in the context of the merger is about the knowledge of family care workers and social workers in connection with the family. In many cases, the parallels that were currently in the system were not in the interest of the family. We have to do this so that we don't have random cooperation. I acknowledge that many local authorities already do this cooperation today, a lot of local authorities, where they really thought about helping disadvantaged families, have already developed very close cooperation between children's welfare and family supporters. At the same time, we would like to include this positive experience in the regulation on a systemic basis. That is why integration is important. There is no intention to withdraw, decommission or save. In fact, I would like to say once again that there is HUF 460 million more in the 16th budget at the disposal of child welfare services. It's a very important question. The third question was how the confirmation was manifested. That there are no fractions. Children's welfare is currently suffering from fractions, two hours, three hours, four hours. No, the funding of the new system is built with full-time full-time colleagues and family care workers working. Number four: Child welfare centers. Their number is increasing from 48 to 198, it is basically the point of the new cut-off, and this was also asked by a number of people, basically taking away protection, upbringing, tasks related to official duties, and providing special additional services for children's welfare. This problem, which has long been indicated many times by the profession, is that there is not enough time, capacity, attention to families, children, a large number of cases that can be handled. So, even though there was little time available, I also ask those who have expressed an opinion to think about it, that we really think that it is a step in the right direction. The specific numbers will be in the implementing regulation, so we can further refine there. And it is also an important step in strengthening that the government has established a wage supplement from 1 July, and this will affect our employees in child welfare services to a significant extent. So I think that these five steps and five elements of ratification are extremely important. The question of anonymity was about family support. I think it's a misunderstanding. The traffic log has had to show up. I deeply agree with Mr Sebestyén Craftor, this is an important step to ensure that the total traffic in KENYSZI, in the electronic database, is traceable. It'll help the family helpers, it's not over-heavy. Turning to home assistance, I think that what the position on the remuneration fee is is, in principle, once again, only from focus and justice. It is important - and I said this in my expo - that the government wants to make the home assistance system more effective. We will take into account jobs and the type of activity where it is not work requiring increased care and care. But when we are going to think about this and determine the content of social services and the number of employees and professional qualifications, then obviously we must also do this differentiation. The fee regulation must also follow this, but then when the norm is differentiated. So I think that with a more thorough, thought-out, more calculated version, but this will have to come back sometime when we can talk about introducing a differentiated normative one. The next question, which has been discussed less, is normative, thank you, Member, for bringing this up. An important step in strengthening support services and psychiatric community addictive services is to make their operation more sustainable and predictable in the long term, and the surplus for this purpose, the additional funding of HUF 1.2 billion, will also appear in next year's budget. I was talking about partnership, yes, it's possible. Integration on the health education institution is a set of zeros, it's not much like that, but we've left the possibility in there. We will look into the implementation of the experience. Finally, I would like to thank everyone once again... I hope that I did not miss - I will quickly look at - a more important signal and question. So once again for the welfare of children: it is not a question of retaliation, decoding or centralisation, and it has no losers, it will be a clear winner, and these will be disadvantaged children. Thank you again for your attention.
u2015-06-30-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. We now have a debate on the Commission's reports for the submission of basic health care and the summary amendment proposal. T/4883. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. Together, 15 minutes are available, of which the rapporteur of the committee has a time frame of 8 minutes and 7 minutes for the representative who delivered the minority opinion. I now give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, in eight minutes. Here you go. [[14.10]]
u2015-06-30-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4883 on basic health care. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, we discussed the 21-point amendment proposed by the Committee on Welfare, which was supported by 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. The Legislative Committee has expressed its own intention to amend it, which contained language positioning clarifications. This was supported unanimously by 32 votes in favour. Basic care is the cornerstone of the publicly funded public health system. Most doctor-patient meetings take place here, and there is prevention, care and care, so all three elements of basic care. It is also a fact that everything is of national significance. If we can strengthen basic care, we will reduce the burden of our clinics and hospitals, which is beneficial to patients, doctors and the budget. The new Basic Supply Act is a framework law, a framework that will strengthen the basic care system with the associated detailed rules and the concept of strengthening the basic health care system, and as a result we are moving towards a more respected system, valued at a higher level, which serves the interests of the care system as a whole and the interests of patients as one. In the view of the majority of the committee, the bill before us serves the purpose of strengthening the supply system, with a view to this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 26 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr István Tukacs. Time frame's seven minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. At the committee meeting, we were obliged to give a minority opinion because we felt that the proposals sent to it by the Committee on Welfare were precise, but we had two amendments to the law that required a few words in this House. One of them was an amendment due to the framework nature of the law, since the text of the law, quite rightly, suggests that participation in non-binding screenings should be strengthened, and clearly wants to highlight the role of general practitioners in basic care. However, since the wording did not contain any further clarifications in this regard, we have concluded from the Secretary of State's communication that this is where the possibility of prioritising the waiting lists and the entry lists lies. We would not really consider this a good solution, we would not consider it good to manipulate the waiting lists, because there would be geographical, otherwise income and other reasons who would be stuck at the end, there would be people who could move forward, as they would be easier to do without mandatory screening and easier to get to them. We believe that making the GP interested may be a key to strengthening health and not necessarily curing non-mandatory screenings. Our other amendment referred to something, otherwise known and unsolved by the profession, which would have sought to settle the remuneration and financing of general practitioners without territorial supply obligations. Mr State Secretary, we have, of course, consulted on this - and I have also indicated this at the committee meeting - and everyone knows that this matter has been a problem for a long time, for reasons known otherwise, but it is an existing one. The amendment was intended to provide a close and far-reaching solution. The Secretary of State referred to the decision taken by professional representation on a consensual basis in this matter. With my fellow Member, Jobbikos, who also expressed his opinion, we have finally confirmed that it would be necessary to conclude or decide in some way on this particular practice. Finally, in the minority opinion, we also stated that the nature of the framework law is not necessarily good, since completing the framework, such as government decrees or other measures, also means that they will not be sufficiently public for the profession and political actors. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my signal that it would be appropriate in some way to include them in the professional context, perhaps on a committee or perhaps here in the House, with a view to looking at them or with an emerging debate, because the solution is that the government may be giving its opinion on this type of presentation on its website, for, say, two days, I do not think it is very good. Overall, the conclusion is that basic care and the general medical system are a cornerstone of health care, of course we understand and know. However, the general practitioners who expressed an opinion in the discussions indicated that, in addition to this law, at least a thorough discussion of funding would be necessary, a number of measures would be needed that could transform this system. In this respect, of course, it can be felt that it is very uneven and very territorially dependent on how one of the general practitioners works, because there are practices that seem to be unfilled and unfulfilled, because they are in a region where they are in a settlement where they are slowly struggling with the disruption of abundance, because there is a district in Budapest, where at least one third of the patients must be addressed in English. We have expressed these concerns about the law, and if Mr President is a little bit fair to me, we have not formulated it in the minority opinion, but, on the basis of today's news, let me say one sentence. Anyone who came up with the idea of financing health from the Olympics' profits should be ashamed of themselves. Shame on you. This isn't a game! And I'm not the one saying that, but the people who are in health care say that, so in the days or hours before Semmelweis Day. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2015-06-30-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Gábor Zombor, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now, because he has the opportunity to do so, because the rapporteur has the opportunity to speak at the beginning of the debate and to respond as a closing point to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Now, yes. Then I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-113	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the comments, both at the professional committee meetings and at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. The only reason I want to respond to it is because I never said that participation in screenings would mean getting on the waiting list. [[István Tukacs intervenes.]] So the fact that this is the result of the Secretary of State's communication... when I was talking about it, I said exactly that this is not the solution I heard in the press. [[László Kács: But then what?]] That is where the rules of the profession and of the medical and patient systems must be taken into account, and I can assure my fellow Members that this will be the case. I also told you in the case of gym doctors without tubs that we're here to negotiate with the Medical Chamber. As can be seen from the amendment proposal, we did not even want the law to encode these figures, but it is also defined in a government regulation, so there is scope for further consultation in this. But once again, we will propose this on the basis of the Chamber's opinion in the Government Decree. [[14.20]] During the Commission's debate, I mentioned that there are some elements of the law that we would like to present the part of the Government Decree to the People's Welfare Committee, if the Committee so requests. In terms of funding, this is perhaps the area of health, which has the most positive vision, because funding is constantly rising, and if it stays that way, then we will really be able to achieve the objectives set. I will respond then to what has been said in the rest of the debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-30-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll let you know you'll have seven minutes and 27 seconds in the locker. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. The Members' speeches will follow, and the time limits on the tables can be followed by everyone. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First, speeches will be made by the Members who have signed up in writing. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mrs Ágnes Molnár. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-30-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I believe that the reform of the system has started with the draft basic supply law, which has long been needed in Hungarian health care. It is also important to start this system-wide transformation in basic care because this is where most doctor-patient meetings take place, and it is very important that there is also a triple unit of prevention, care and care. And not least, from a national point of view, it is of great importance that, if our primary care can be strengthened, we can also reduce the burden of our more cost-efficient clinics and hospitals. In order to function effectively, we need a strong system, both professionally and financially, so that we can ensure the close gatekeeper function of the population, which we expect from the basic supply. T/4883. The draft law on basic care contains a number of important and forward-looking elements: on the one hand, the public health approach, the approach to health protection, responsible, health-conscious thinking in every change. In addition, a number of measures are intended to make the general medical profession attractive to young people. Let us not forget that GPs have a rising chorus, one of the most important problems in the basic care system that we have to face. In a clear list of the law, we can also find the main tasks of GP, GP, dentist, nurse, health care, and a separate section of occupational health. These public health aspects are taken into account by the idea of incentives to participate in screening tests. This form will be planned at the level of a government regulation and ministerial decree in the future. In order to strengthen this approach, it is also necessary for local authorities, together with health development offices, to ensure the development and implementation of the urban health plan, in cooperation with government agencies, health services providers providing basic care and specialised care. In general doctors, it is very important to increase competence, which is published in the Basic Supply Act, according to which GPs will be able to apply their multiple exams, their professional qualifications, to exercise them, and we support them financially. The institution of the head of the medical profession of colleagues has been introduced. The system is in favour of achieving a uniform functioning of the basic supply and efficiency gains. It will also be possible for women to have a national professional defender. There is a positive incentive for GPs in order to provide basic care to as many patients as possible, of course by continuing to provide full investigation opportunities, by enforcing participation in specialist clinics and in-patient care. There are provisions that facilitate the acquisition of the right to practice. In order to facilitate the sale of the right to practice, the amount received in the future under the financing may be used to obtain the right to practice; it is also important to amend that the government is authorised to develop an interest-rate subsidy scheme for the loan received. The budget shall provide the necessary resources for the sustainability and development of the system. Let us not forget that in the next year's budget we will find a total of HUF 117 billion in support of general medical care, an increase of more than 50 percent compared to 2010. But all in all, we spend 40 percent more on basic care on average than in 2010. Of course, regulation and the associated budget are both important but not exclusive components of success. A system can only be truly successful if the workers in it want it and work together. Therefore, it is necessary for basic care workers to see the potential in the current development directions and to take advantage of these opportunities for patients and for the benefit of the care system. There is also an important change in basic care: with the adoption of tax laws for next year, it was possible to exempt general practitioners, children's doctors, dentists and protective services from business tax. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that when the bill was negotiated, constructive discussions took place in Parliament and in the Committee on Welfare. I would like to point out in particular that the Committee on Welfare has adopted without voting against the Commission's proposal for an amendment, which is the basis for the current summarised amendment. This summarised amendment, in addition to clarifying the bill in a number of places, also includes substantive changes. Allow me to highlight some of these amendments. The Preamble adds the role of doorkeepers to the role of dentists and the fact that the problem of age composition affects both GPs and GPs, and is therefore an important and important problem to be solved. The essential task of basic care is the organisation of the individual's health, prevention, which also appears among the basic tasks. And it is an important amendment that, in the event of the use of a professional exam beyond the qualifications required to provide basic care, additional funding should not only be granted to general medical practitioners, but also to dental practitioners; another extension is that the head of the medical staff should also be elected in the case of a family pediatrician and dentist. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the government considers basic health care as a priority, and we have therefore drawn up a separate draft law on its basic rules. [[14.30]] This will in any event strengthen the basic care system, together with the related detailed rules, government regulations and ministerial regulations and the appropriate budgetary resources, and will therefore benefit patients. Therefore, the basic supply is T/4883. I consider both proposal No 1 and the accompanying amendment to be forward-looking and eligible, and I would also ask my fellow Members for this support. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-30-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member László Szakács of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think that we have made quite a lot of comments during the general debate on this proposal, and we have said quite a lot of criticism. We have also tabled amendments. I wouldn't worry about that right now for more than one reason. One is that my fellow Member, Tukacs, has already said these things and, on the other hand, in the Commission's debate, this debate was largely carried out. The will of the majority always prevails, and I believe that these good proposals and conceptual proposals have been swept off the table once again. I cannot, however, share the joy that I hear from my fellow Members here. I hear such baroque exaggerations that there's a systemic transformation and that there's adequate budget funding. I think that these exaggerations, even if required by government communication, might be a little more modest or much closer to reality. There really is a system-wide transformation, but the problem is that this system-wide transformation is slowly no longer understood. We don't have the same problem when it comes to systemic transformation, because we know that it has to be transformed, we see that it has to be transformed, and we don't have the problem of having someone do it. We're very happy to help you with that. What we are actually seeing is that at the lower, middle and upper levels, a transformation that cannot actually be followed by those who work in it, or by those who use health services, is launched at the same time. At the bottom level, when the regulations are drawn up under the framework law, you will see where the new regulations are moving in most of their entirety. You can see that the underlying institutions, OEP, work with steam, put 10 billion forints there. It's hard, and they're going to be lapping honey at it, because they've already put in this liquefying proposal, which we can see is that they've thought much more in the beginning than they're going to get in the end, and I'm going to say that, of course, we don't know the government regulations yet, but they've already smuggled in half-phrases that are tempting, but they didn't expect you to do that. It wasn't expected of you to talk about group practice, practice communities, that sort of thing and that sort of thing at the time when you actually thought the status differences, the hierarchy of interests, were supposed to be eliminated by the participants, or obviously expected a lot more money from you because you promised it quite simply. You promised me everything, just vote for you. Now, however, this has become a HUF 10 billion extra expense, which, according to each expert, will not give rise to a major transformation. This will start at some point, when the detailed rules will be known. By 17 February, county communities and hospitals were supposed to make an enforceable proposal on the mid-level. We are still not at the point where every county has a proposal for sustainability that the government can accept. But at least all the county committees and the metropolitan committee have already been set up, which will see which hospital is well managed and which is not, in English, which one should be punished, which one should not be punished. We have said that it would require a little more trust, I think, both the profession and the administration in this respect, from the government asking for cooperation in the transformation of the profession in which it does not really trust, as Minister Mihály Varga said that he does not trust the profession or the professionalism of management. If we see this framework law as a concept, as has been said, then there is a concept. But I do think that if we want to put a concept on the table, then we have to have a good conference on it, and then some kind of final document of it can be submitted to the Ministry, if it's suitable for codification, then it could obviously be put here. At least that's how it happens in the Northern Hemisphere, not when we first make a law that we say is a concept, and then we take it out of Parliament's jurisdiction, and then, by regulation, we transform what we think there. Behind it, OEP works seriously, and next to it at the top level, just to finish why everything was transformed at the same time, from 1 April, the top level administration was completely redesigned. For the time being, the three modifications are still ongoing, and everyone is constantly looking for their own chair, authority and tasks. I'm sure that's not effective. In doing so, they cannot eliminate this hierarchy and unify statuses in this story just because they cannot keep their own promises, they cannot harmonise interests, they cannot unify statuses in this story, compared with detailed rules which, in turn, are of minimal opinion. Mr Secretary of State said that he never said that a reduction in waiting lists could be the benefit of non-mandatory screening tests. I'm guessing, Mr. Secretary, there'll be a lot of press cases in the next period, because that's what a lot of press conferences have written. I suppose that's when the Ministry asked for a lot of press adjustments, and obviously, if the press agencies don't do this properly, then there will be lawsuits here, because I think this is going to be a pretty big part of this proposal. Remediation of the patronage service is another thing that I really say is that a Hungaricum, a network that works well in Hungary, may otherwise have the advantage of the idea that is currently included in the draft, but I still think that if we change so much, then what works well should be relied upon and not changed. When establishing the GPs, municipalities have to seek the opinion of the National Methodological Institute, only this methodological institution has become, in the meantime, quite simply one department in the great transformation fever, and there is no longer a national primary care institution. But in the big transformation fever, they didn't realize that these organizations were only duplicated here, because one of them will allow it, but the SAO will keep it on record. So they turned one of them into a department, and the other one's gonna keep track. I think that this haste has not led to good results. And I find that to be a thin ice when a general practitioner has an interest in sending as few patients as possible to a specialist. I think that when the average age of life in GPs lasts between 60 and 65 years, for most of the 40 years, they have been treating it with a hospital background, then such an interest will certainly have a different outcome than expected. I have already talked about the trade tax in the debate, which is a cowardly way of putting government responsibility down on the municipalities, and if you want to, you can let go of the tax. Therefore, because of these comments, we will not support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, it is up to Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There have been many criticisms here. I must say that the basic supply law itself and the draft law are a good direction here, especially in the area of basic care. I believe that this is the area that can be an exit point for health workers both in terms of pay and in terms of funding. My fellow cook finished by not encouraging specialists to provide extra funding so as not to send the patient to an inpatient institution. Yes, you do. Inpatient institutions should be freed from burdens. The possibility should be given to GPs, dentists, pediatricians to have a diagnostic background behind them, not to burden an inpatient institution for every little thing. Unfortunately, the biggest cancer of today's Hungarian health care is that for each study that involves general medicine, the patient is already hospitalized. [[14.40]] If this law enters into force and creates the funding conditions that allow GPs to be eligible for an additional specialization exam, let's add an intern or cardiologist exam to allow them to carry out out outpatient surgery either directly in parallel with the ordering time or beyond the ordering time, this reduces the waiting time for outpatient clinics. This is a positive; or in prescription writing, for example, if the doctor does not have to wait on the recommendation of a diabetesologist, he can do these things on the spot. However, there is one thing I have to tell you. I've been talking to a lot of GPs lately about the law. A large percentage of them support the law, but they told us their concerns. Their concern is, unfortunately, what we already know, and what the congresswoman has said, that there are very few doctors, there are a lot of unfilled practices, and there are practices nationwide that do not make it attractive for someone to develop a work and practice as a family doctor. Regarding the second exam, they said, and there is a lot of truth in this, too, that a lot of doctors were unable to renew their knowledge because of their overload, because of their busyness, or to go to the level exams. I trust that these doctors, medical doctors, surgeons, cardiologists, children's lung doctors, intensive specialists in the ministerial decrees will receive some kind of discount, so that they can do this in a shortened form and take advantage of the possibility that they can do an outpatient specialization in a few hours in addition to performing their other general medical duties. As regards the financing of the on-call system, it is important to know whether towns and small areas are generally an association or a kt. provide this in its form. Unfortunately, in terms of dental care, there are very few cities in Hungary today that can conduct weekend and night dental operations. Unfortunately, this is also true of the pediatric wards. In some counties, perhaps one or two cities can only operate pediatric care. It also shows that the system is lacking in human resources in these two areas. It should be added that small-region villages and cities contribute to the functioning of the on-call system or the basic care system in proportion to the population. This will finance wage and contribution costs, material acquisition, operating and overhead charges. This would be a great help if the government could provide these municipalities with additional resources to increase these quotas from 58 to 65 to 70 forints. In this way, the wage pool could rise at both specialist and professional level. They could also include additional costs for energy efficiency investments. Unfortunately, very few applications are aimed at renovating the offices of the local government that the general practitioners have been using for years. Accessibility is not possible in many cases, it has a geographical capacity. The efi offices are being cleared now, and during the three-year maintenance period, I trust these offices can carry out additional screening tests that they have never been able to carry out before. There are many cities, many walks in the country that do not run efi offices. For example, it could be done to allow them to travel from individual districts to other territorial districts, to carry out screening tests, health prevention, thus preventive work, thereby facilitating the work of general practitioners and their employees. I believe that the basic supply law itself is not set in stone and that it must be made lifelike. It must be monitored, and I have also said so at the committee meeting, and if we can see that this law is hindered by something that needs to be changed, please listen to the opinions of the general practitioners. Let's monitor it for a year and a half, and if it needs to be changed, let's change it, because that's how the health system can move forward. If this basic care system is operational, this structure could be transferred to the area of inpatient care. There are many things I would not like to say, and the Congresswoman has told me most of the law. I think it gives doctors the opportunity to stay home and work here. But it takes wages to do so. As long as GP itself is more tempting in Western countries, we are in a very difficult situation, but we must do so. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-30-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We are debating a law for which good intentions can be believed by the legislator, even if it is quite late. But we see that the execution leaves something to be desired. Unfortunately, it is far from possible that the right goals will eventually fall victim to bad regulation. I have to go ahead: we support every step, every measure, that will help the broken health care system, the professionals who work mostly for hunger. But it is also our duty to point out mistakes and shortcomings. It is feared that, in practice, several points will show that it does not work or does not work as the legislator had imagined. I wouldn't be surprised if the problematic provisions were to be brought back to Parliament soon. What I'm thinking, let's look at it one by one. The law will continue to designate only the frameworks, leaving much room for later regulation. This will certainly contribute to maintaining uncertainty throughout the health system. With regard to the regulation of screening tests and the system of sanctions for omissions, we maintain our previous opinion: we do not see that no one in the new system can suffer an unfair disadvantage, for example due to administrative errors or poor registration. We also have plenty of reasons to worry about GP practices with no territorial obligation, and there is a fear that the gap between practice and practice in funding will be unfairly high. In addition to specific errors and concerns, we should also mention what is missing from the legislation. The bill does not address what other efficiency-enhancing services could be used to support basic care. It could be linked to physical therapy, psychological consultation, social assistance. This would increase the efficiency of basic care and reduce the burden of professional care - of course while maintaining professional standards. This regulation alone is not enough to prevent the migration of young general practitioners, the ageing of the profession, and the re-production of a shortage of professionals. It is not apparent what the government's plan is to address the already enormous territorial difference, to fill the permanently unfilled practices. In the meantime, we are losing weight, even if we have to wait years before the doctor's system is really effective in keeping doctors here, then all the world's treasures will be scarce to deal with the problems. Doctors' exodus should be dealt with immediately, and we are already many years behind schedule. So I would like to ask my fellow members of the Government that they do not think for a minute that all the tasks have been done with this bill. A series of problems have been delayed again in primary care, even though the last few years have proved that the constant absolution of the system and its continuous slapping increase problems in the long term. Overall, we consider the proposal to be eligible, in addition to maintaining the above comments, we can only hope that the detailed rules laid down later will ultimately reflect rationality and will make the amendments discussed here work in practice. Otherwise, we will be the first to signal the problems and ask for their resolution here in Parliament. Last but not least, we urge the government to stop delaying the settlement of the biggest health problem, the underpaidness of workers. For every month wasted, you'll have to pay double. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-30-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the MSZP Group, Mr István Tukacs follows for the remainder of the timeframe. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.50]]
u2015-06-30-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. For the sake of fairness, I only asked for the word for these 40-something seconds. In view of the article which served as a reference for linking forwards on waiting lists and non-binding screenings, the Secretary of State's statement does not appear there. However, the journalistic references to this story are based on the conversation with you, and it could have given me the basis for living with the suspicion that it exists. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has refuted this with a definite no at this Parliament meeting today. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-06-30-124	Thank you too, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now ask Mr Gábor Zombor, Secretary of State, if he wishes to say that the remaining 7 minutes are 27 seconds in time. [[Dr. Zombor on Gábor's mark:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, first of all, for the correctness of Congressman Tukacs. I would like to point out that many sensitive issues are covered by this law - even if it means regulation at the level of a government regulation - before this was submitted to Parliament, I asked for the ethical comments of the Health Science Council, and only measures have been put before you that have passed this test. In this, too, I think, it would be very important, and there are very good experiences abroad, how to strengthen screening and prevention, health-conscious behaviour. The ethical aspects must clearly be taken into account, and I do not think that there is any debate between us. Mr Cook said the same in his speech, as in the general debate; there were many inaccuracies, and I do not want to be very serious about this. Perhaps the systemic transformation, and even in the speech by Congressman Lajos Rig and Congressman Ikotity, has been said here, is that the poor condition of the lack of a doctor and of the coral - which means that one third of the general doctors are now well above retirement - must generate measures, either at a framework level or at a regulation level, but perhaps here the law is more clear, which have already worked. I would just like to point out that the pharmaceutical loan scheme, which works, helps with similar mechanisms how pharmacists can acquire property, and its method and, by the way, the source of interest rate subsidies are also available, so this can be introduced quickly. Thank you very much for Mr Rig's comment, because it is indeed a problem that, because of the non-acquired credits, we will have to find a new solution, which we will be paying attention to. The renovation of the clinics is supported by the so-called territorial development operational programmes, so this is the only part of health that can come from these territorial programmes, not the central EFOP. I only know the numbers of Kecskemét, and there, in fact, every practice can be renovated, so it can be done in other settlements. There are some elements that I think are very positive both in the law and in the measures that have been taken so far: improvements from European Union sources that have shown good direction and are well-intentioned, are further financed by the central budget, and this is also legally confirmed. A TÁMOP programme was launched with regard to the health development offices, which did not come to the end of the process of losing it and throwing it away, but of supporting the operation of the central budget. We can create new offices from the development of the next cycle, and the law also cements its function, so to speak, as the municipalities have to prepare health plans with these offices. This may be an irrelevant part of the law, but it is perhaps one of the most important elements of this law from a public health point of view: if we can do this and this institutional system is established, then it can be a stable and new health system that will be able to serve the goals that are needed because of poor health. I would like to say to Mr Ikotity, in relation to measures to increase efficiency, that these practice communities should be envisaged in this form of operation. At present, there is also a programme that is already the second element of a previous EU proposal: at present, with over two thousand basic care workers in eight hundred practices, it is trying to introduce these so-called good solutions or best practices into the system, and when it starts in eight hundred local practices, it is already a systemic experiment. This is financed by the European Union for more than HUF 3 billion. I think the proposals that have been made have helped us to do our job. Once again, I would like to say to my fellow members both pro-government and opposition, we are offering to discuss the regulation on particularly sensitive matters, whether medical or patient, before the Committee on Welfare, before it is adopted. Thank you very much for your helpful work and your contribution. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain legislation on the regulation of higher education and the discussion of the summarised amendment will now follow. The T/4767. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. In the debate, the opinion of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented first, in an overall period of 15 minutes, the opinion of the committee in 8 minutes and the opinion of the minority in 7 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee, in an eight-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. T/4767 was negotiated pursuant to and on the basis of Section T/4767. The Commission presented a bill amending the legislation on the regulation of higher education, which included 19 amendments and a summary report with 6 sexes and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains almost all the points in the motion of the Committee on Culture and the clarification proposal of the Legislative Committee. In addition to the proposals for technical and linguistic adjustments, the summarised amendment suggests that the delegated members of the resulting consulates should train the economic and social environment of the higher education institution, the institutional needs. Cooperation with the institution responsible for strategic issues is key to the effective functioning of the higher education institution, so it is legitimate that these actors should not merely be able to comment on the members, but to make a proposal themselves, since it is important for the effective and proper functioning of the consortium, that persons with adequate preparedness and experience should be selected for this task. [[15.00]] One guarantee element of this can be the publicity of candidates. I would also like to highlight the introduction of the fourth step for civil servants of the provisions, the conditions of which are precisely laid down in the summarised amendment proposal. I want your support for this, too. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-30-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr László Kiss. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As has been said, the support for the proposal was not unanimous, and I would like to say about the non-votes on the grounds for which we did it. If, in view of the summer, you allow me to relax, allow me to set an example. A few days ago, I was shocked to learn that my favorite pen had been eaten by my cat in an extraordinary way. This chewing hasn't been so good for my pen to work. You're chewing on this law of higher education in a similar way, which wasn't as good as my pen originally, but this chewing doesn't improve this thing. [[Defiance.]] Let's take a look at the current chewing and why we don't support it. We feel that this proposal is a serious offense against university autonomy, since, if the proposal is adopted, the self-determination of universities and colleges will be again limited. Remember, they had an earlier snack when the chancellor's institution was chewed into this law. Then they swore it would be the last snack, but this snack isn't the final one, apparently. And now they're setting up a consistorium, three of which would be delegated by the minister. We think that just like the cat shouldn't be chewing on this pen, you shouldn't be chewing on this law any more. This is precisely why we did not agree with this proposal, because we believe that the proposal is again a serious violation of autonomy. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-30-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Secretary of State, You, as rapporteur, will have the opportunity to speak in a ten-minute time frame, both before and before the debate, to respond to what was said at the end of the debate. I respectfully ask if you'd like to speak now. [[Dr. László Palkovics: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Then, at the end, as a closing point, you will have ten minutes. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the opportunity to the Members who have been registered in writing in advance. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied to the MSZP Group. Mr. Vice President, the time frame is up on the board in nine minutes. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-30-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman and Congressman! To discuss Hungarian higher education in the Parliament, to discuss and guide the problems of Hungarian higher education, I think it is a matter of current and important importance. There are issues that are important not only for critical rights tailored to the opposition, but also for other issues that we need to discuss not as pro-government and opposition, but together as committed to Hungarian higher education. The fact that Hungarian higher education needs modernisation and modernisation is not disputed by any of those who know the area a little. Therefore, we need to talk about the directions, the specifics that have been decided, I think, and not about the fact that, by default, Hungarian higher education needs or does not need such modernisation, it is unnecessary. In any case, when we are talking about Hungarian higher education, we have to talk about the whole of our higher education. Therefore, I think it is a particularly bad decision and it is a very bad precedent for higher education that we have discussed a higher education institution today, and we have happened to vote on the law on the National University of Public Service. I understand that politically, I don't accept it, but I get it. However, professionally, I find it totally unacceptable to have a separate law on any Hungarian higher education institution. Because I must say that there are many professional, if you like, national interests for which the Hungarian Parliament is worth dealing with the Budapest University of Technology, it is worth considering the Eötvös Loránd University, the University of Debrecen or the University of Semmelweis. Yet none of us, not even biased that a separate law on ELTE should be passed, a separate law on the University of Arts, Szeged, Pécs or even Debrecen. It's not okay. It is not okay for any political goal to rip an institution out of the whole of Hungarian higher education and give it specific feudal privileges that can be used as a precedent. And since we are living in democracy, this government will also end, some think that later, I would like it to be earlier; but that is not the point, but what if another government says that it is trying to link economic areas, human areas, information technology, or any specific area of scientific life, to a university in the world. And even if you resolve this in a motion for amendment one way or another, does it have a separate law on it? This is taking the very edge of what it is important to talk about, which is represented by the Secretary of State, both equally and in a similar way and in a different way. Because you, Mr. State Secretary, are a member of the Ministry responsible for Hungarian higher education, or a representative of the Government, and not a university or a group of interests. Therefore, when, on the same week, on the same day, the Hungarian Parliament votes separately from one university, then a few hours later, the amendment of the Hungarian Higher Education Act, this cannot be silenced, because I consider it a very, very bad direction. In the general debate, we have talked about the various directions of the law, and I consider it unnecessary to recite this and to waste time. I also do not wish to mention the consistors, their composition and function once again, this has happened the last time, in the expoze and in many professional debates. I am not convinced by the kind of involvement of this body, or rather by the setting up that forces it to play that your government believes that higher education works well or better if the state can tell you more precisely and more precisely what to do there. I don't think that's how it works in the world of science, in the world of education, in the world of research. I understand that in many areas of everyday life, they believe that strengthening the role of the state and strengthening the central role will make it more effective, this is a very interesting and important debate - sometimes yes or no. But that confronting autonomy in higher education by better enforcing the central will would mean strengthening standards, nowhere in the world, but nowhere in the world can they set a precedent that this is so. For this reason, we have to take all the directions which show that the state is out of control in the institutional management of higher education and in the whole of higher education, not simply to reduce the much-spoken autonomy. The slogans lose their content. When you talk about something a lot, the incompetent say it only because it's fashionable to say it, its inner contents are not understood. There is an internal content of autonomy, autonomy in higher education, not even to governments, not even to systems. If you think about it, when the autonomy of higher education was established, the German-Roman Empire was in its initial phase, which I recall was roughly 206 years ago - I have to figure out: 209 years ago - the charity of a man named Bonaparte Napoleon ended. [[15.10]] So I have to say that this type of autonomy is not the right direction. I therefore urge you not to debate the necessary transformation, so think about this, because in this form we will not be able to support the amendment of the Higher Education Act. If there were anything else in it, which would better cover my previous thoughts, but any Hungarian higher education institution would be ripped out of the Higher Education Act, we would not vote for it, because I think it is wrong, and please think about what will happen if any other higher education institution is also ripped out of the whole of Hungarian higher education according to its own goals. To say this in front of you and to try to make you think better, was the purpose of my speech. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-30-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr István Ikotity of the LMP Group is next to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The extensive salad law on higher education coming to the debate before the final vote concerns two important areas that I would like to address in this speech. Firstly, the basic amendment in higher education institutions would introduce a new fourth step for some teaching posts. The amendments before the final vote set out the conditions for entering the new stage, as this was excluded from the original proposal as to what the LMP thought. We've been talking about pay grade here. The fact is that since 2008, the basic salary has not increased by a penny, and according to next year's budget, this will continue to be the case in 2016, i.e. there will be no wage increase in higher education in the foreseeable future. What do gross wages now look like in terms of the lowest step? This is 437 300 for university professors, 306 100 for university professors, 218 700 for university professors, 161 800 for university professors, and the rest. We also see that higher levels of payments do not provide a substantial increase in wages. This is a huge problem, as the public salaries of teachers and researchers are no longer competitive with the market sector. We also said in the general debate that this means that the best young people will go to companies, companies, or if they do want to teach, research, they will move abroad, where there are thousands of applications and opportunities. How long does the Fidesz-KDNP want to wait by raising the salaries of teachers, assistant professors, professors, university teachers? Wait until these tracks are completely empty when there's no pay for who? When were the words followed, when would the career model be introduced? We also know from the adopted budget for next year that the resources of higher education are not changing anyway, and we are spending this year's money on universities and colleges again next year. This shows that it is not important to invest in knowledge, in young people, in the future. The government would spend 3-4 thousand billion forints on Olympics, while in higher education it spends just over 150 billion forints on central support. The amendment before the final vote also addresses another important area, namely the introduction of consistors. LMP's position is also clear here, and we have said this earlier, the introduction of consistors is the most important element and is also the most serious mistake of this Higher Education Salad Act. The new body to which the minister delegates most of the members can exercise veto rights in virtually all economic, financial and financial matters by three out of five persons. Without the consent of the consulate, it will not be possible to make a decision with economic consequences, nor to make valid decisions made by the Senate. Without a consortium, there is no institutional development plan, no R &amp; D, no innovation strategy, no budget, no annual accounts, no asset management plan, no holding can be established or acquired in it. This is the end of such a long process, since it is now permanently taking away economic autonomy for universities. The maintainer, the Ministry, the government. When, ten years ago, Hungarian Bálint SZDSZ planned the same basically, Fidesz-KDNP protested sharply against this. The amendment before the final vote would, on one small point, improve this guardianship system, refer to the info law which, by the way, is about to be amended as a matter of urgency and to declare war on transparency with the amendment. Under the legislation, the Minister does not seek the opinions of the various organisations on persons who can be delegated to the Consulate, but they propose the names of those who will be on the guardianship board. This, of course, will not have any binding effect, the government will continue to delegate whoever it wants, so, nevertheless, it is a bit polished, perhaps a little bit. Dear House, There are also positive elements of the higher education strategy and of this legislative amendment, as we said earlier, but overall we can talk about another missed opportunity. Instead of the objectives of the knowledge-based society and the knowledge-based economy, decisions will be taken in line with the interests of large business stakeholders. We will not support this proposal, the salad law. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-30-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I apologise to Mr Gergely Farkas, Group Director of the Jobbik Group, I accidentally raised two in the scenario, and he has a three-minute timeframe for presenting the minority opinion in the Committee on Culture. If you don't mind, I'd like to give you a chance. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-30-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As a minority rapporteur, my position is to express briefly the opinions expressed by the Members who did not vote on the summary proposal at the committee meeting. I am also glad that I do not have to talk about the timeframe of Jobbik, because I also have to share the comments of my fellow Member Szabó Szabolcs in my speech. He too, as all other opposition representatives have, by the way, criticised, among other things, the existence of and the practical arrangements for the constellations. In particular, he did not agree with the name "consistorium," he proposed the name of an economic advisory body, and here, as many of us have suggested, we feel that opposition representatives have too much authority over this body, which is why Szabolcs Szabó also suggested that this body should not be a body with the right of agreement, but that it should be an advisory body. Our better proposals for amendment would strengthen the role of the rector in relation to the consistorium. We feel that if you want to push this new institution through higher education institutions, at least give the rector the opportunity to have a greater right to say and have an impact on the functioning of this body. We would determine that this body can only be a quorum if the rector is present. At the moment, the law says that three of the five elected members are present enough, and this does not include the rector, which, if you look at practical implementation a little bit here, may raise serious problems, because we know very well that the rector is the one who lives there, sees the everyday life of the institution, sees into all its clever and difficult things with the institution, but the other four are not at all conditional on being an institutional person. Therefore, they will not receive wages, rewards, remuneration, and yet they will have a tremendous influence on the decisions that determine the future of the institution. We would therefore like our amending proposal - and we asked for this at the committee meeting, and we will ask for a separate vote on this in the final vote - so that the rector can strengthen his authority in this way, and even without the rector's vote, we do not want to have a valid possibility for the consistors to decide. Szabolcs Szabó also raised the too strict condition of the university. He thought that it would be sufficient to have less master's and doctor's training, a major in order to declare something a university. He has initiated this in an amending proposal, and I would like to say a few words about our proposal for reclassification and the debate at the committee's meeting, against Jobbik's time frame. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who wishes to speak at the expense of the time frame available. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.20]]
u2015-06-30-137	Thank you very much. My previous comment did not include an important amendment, which was also the subject of a major debate at the committee meeting, perhaps the most serious debate. This was a proposal for reclassification, and the most serious debate was really about it. The interesting thing is that, compared to the original bill, both the government and the members of the government have tabled an amendment, and we have done the same. We did not secretly submit an amendment in agreement with the National Conference of Students' Local Governments. The basic problem with reclassifications was what we have discussed several times in plenary and in committee meetings, namely that there was a very low set of criteria on who could be transferred from state-funded training to self-cost training and vice versa, from cost-effective training to state-funded training. It has also been said that out of more than 300,000 university students in the last year, we have only 400 such reclassifications, which I think clearly shows that this system of criteria is too low, since it does not encourage or allow mobility between the two classes. We know very well that a person can get into state-funded training, even because of his luck, but that does not mean that he must stay there for three or five years, or that someone may get into self-paid training because of a failed graduation, but there he deserves to be transferred to state-funded training. The old Higher Education Act set the limit of 15 credits that had to be fulfilled for two semesters to prevent a person from being transferred to a reimbursement course. Your proposal would have increased this to 20 credits, and then your amendment would have set this level in 18 credits, which would allow reclassification. We have suggested that, while remaining in proportion to 18 credits, but not in a specific number of credits, 60 percent of the credits received in the given semester should be the minimum amount to be fulfilled. We know very well that students take 30 credits on average in a semester, plus or minus 3 credits is possible, and if we stay at the 30-credit average, 18 credits means the same as your amendment proposal. However, there is a big difference between the two proposals in terms of whether it is important to reach 18 out of 27 credits or 18 out of 33 credits. The percentage solution would therefore be fairer, but would encourage students to achieve a more balanced performance. Once again, we think it would be a fairer solution. And it is also important that we mean the amount of credits required in the recommended curriculum under the reference point. We would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State and the MPs to reconsider this proposal, to consider whether it is worthwhile to support it. Once again, we have discussed this with the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, and they agree with this proposal. We believe that this would result in a fairer system, which is why we are still trying to lobby here, and we trust that you will be open to this change. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State wishes to respond to what has been said. You have ten minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for your input so far. I believe that we have had a very constructive debate over the past period, even though we do not agree with this implementation in all its parts, but we have had a constructive debate on the system of Hungarian higher education. Congressman Kiss said we should chew on the Higher Education Act. That's an interesting metaphor. I think there is more to this matter than chewing, because it has been proposed by an 80-page amendment, which, I think, is a good picture of the work of the past period. Much has happened in the Hungarian higher education system in recent years. The Bologna system was introduced in 2004-2005, which was probably not considered in every detail at the time. The consequences of this have been constantly seen in the operation of the higher education institution system, in the value of the diplomas issued, and in the constructions that appeared. This amendment is intended to respond to a significant part of these, derived from the strategy of higher education that we have negotiated over the course of last year, and I believe that we have adopted the elements of this with a kind of public agreement. I wouldn't want to repeat our conversation, either, because on the opening day we talked about these points for about the same round, but maybe a little less. I would just like to go back to the two or three points that the Members have mentioned, in a way that seems to be out of agreement. One is the role of the consortium and the impact of the consortium on university autonomy. In Hungary, we sometimes tend to choose other solutions and consider certain cases to work differently with us. Consistoriums or equivalent bodies support and serve precisely the completion of university autonomy in the case of English and German universities, and their operation is quite similar to that described in the law. The consortium gives its preliminary opinion and exercises a kind of prior right of agreement in areas that do not conflict with university autonomy. He does not express his opinion on what to look for, how to search, what to teach, how to teach, but rather examine, review, and say that if this is the way it is going, it may not be good, so we ask the Senate to consider this. The university's supreme decision-making organisation is the Senate, so the Senate's opinion will be the decisive one. This is his opinion, which is what the consortium agrees with in certain areas in advance. I think the fear that the members of the consistorium want to make a decision without the rector is not realistic. If anyone has seen the operation of the economic councils, they have seen the operation of such an organization at all, they know that without the rector, the number one head of the university, there is no point in organizing a consultation meeting, since the rector does not appear. The consortium is not to force certain maintenance matters to the university through the consulate, but to force the privileges, the permissions that the maintainer has today - and in the five areas of the law the maintainer has these powers - but rather to allow the practice of this to be exercised to a body in which professionals who consider the university, the training at the university, are important, and it is assumed that they will make decisions and suggestions based on their own professional beliefs. The consistorium doesn't work well based on various experiences if it's just acting as a consultant, so it has to have some kind of power. Here the 2004 proposal was mentioned when the then government proposed a similar body. However, this was more of a maintenance advice, and we were unable to accept this maintenance advice, since it has completely different privileges. The form of the consulate, the council described in the law, we believe it will be in the interests of the university. In areas where, according to the law, a person, the Chancellor, has had certain permissions of understanding, this is transferred to the consulate. The Chancellor is also an employee of the university, so not four members do not have legal relations with the university, but three, because the Chancellor and the Rector obviously do. Such a body will measure these proposals and propose them in this regard. I believe that the international experience of the functioning of the consulates, in particular the German experience, absolutely shows that the consistorium, which has been built in this way, where, on a proposal from its representatives, we have introduced the publicity of the nomination of the members of the consistorium, and then asks, on the basis of these - this is how it works elsewhere - for the maintenance members, this will ensure that this will work. The second element mentioned by the Member is that the average amount of work expected to be increased to 20 credits instead of 15 credits is published in the law. I think we agreed that, in the same way as with teachers and institutions, a higher requirement should be imposed on students. The 35 percent dropout rate that we are now facing in terms of obtaining the absolutorium is not acceptable. This means something inefficient, where the student is frustrated, the institution is frustrated, and ultimately it is not good for society if students do not get an evaluable degree. This is one of the elements of this. This regulation contains two things. On the one hand, it contains an increase in the previous 15-point limit of the average amount of work to be carried out in the two semesters. Our first proposal was 20 points. The 20 points came from the fact that if the student progresses only with 15 points of credit, he can obtain the average 30 credits per semester in exactly twice as much time as he would have to spend a semester in the institution. [[15.30]] Public funding will no longer cover this, so earlier we would like to give the student a signal that something has to be done for him, so it should be considered whether he really wants to move at this rate. So that's where the 20 credits come from, that's how they come from. As you said, Congressman, 30 credits every six months is indeed between 25 and 33 points, 60 percent of them are 18 points according to 30. There is no argument between us here in principle that there are many kinds of solutions to this. We have proposed fixing 18 credits at this moment because it seems that this system is more manageable at this moment. Of course, like all things in life, it can be changed, so if this system seems to have problems where we can solve the fact that the adaptive solution you have proposed can be operated, then we will also consider this. In the same way, like many other solutions, there are other solutions for this. It is very important that this amendment not only tightened the requirements for students, but also created an opportunity, because earlier, regardless of whether the student participated in a foreign semester, he participated in Erasmus or studied at home, so it was calculated. Here, the law clearly considers the average of two semesters of their own university. The result of this is that we want to promote, support students in actually going abroad and doing a semester there, and this will not be counted. So, in this sense, it is a clear facilitation for students. We expect that the importance of part-time studies abroad will indeed increase in the future. I think we've talked about all the other issues. Once again, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of this House for constructive debates and constructive discussions. Understanding that we do not agree on every point, I would nevertheless like to ask that this legislative amendment be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that decisions will take place at our later meeting. It follows now that Act I of 2004 on Sport is amended and CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. By our Fidesz colleagues Erik Bánki and Lajos Szűcs T/5143. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in a 15-minute time frame, from which the Commission's opinion can be delivered in 8 minutes and the opinion of the minority in 7 minutes. The rapporteur for the committee is Mr Dénes Galambos. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee has discussed the house rules 46. § 3 of the Act T/5143. CLXXV of 2011 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport and on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. The Committee presented 24 amendments and a summary report on the amendment of the Act, summing up 24 yes, 4 no and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains a six-point amendment proposal from the Committee on Culture. The amending proposal allows the association to provide, in exceptional cases where it is justified, in particular because of such regulation of the international association of sport in the football field, that a sports contract also implies an economic activity under international rules, an association may exceptionally provide in its rules that no sport contract may be concluded with an amateur athlete. In addition to the above, the amendment proposed under Article 6 of the Sports Act. § 1a is also proposed, since the right of athletes and sports organisations may be violated on a guarantee basis without a membership or contractual relationship establishing a relationship between sports organisations and athletes, and its legitimate interest in the organised sport activities of the athlete in the context of a particular sports organisation, which cannot in itself be replaced by a guarantee relationship without a fundamental right to a legal relationship existing between the certificate, the transfer, the sports organisation and the athlete. Obviously, in the debate that emerged at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, who took part there - and I think of my fellow Member Szilágyi - they will be speaking to him in the final debate. I would like to highlight what is important, in addition to the reasons for this amendment, and which also refers to the Commission's discussion. The two ranges, the two directions, which allow regulation in accordance with the requirements of UEFA and FIFA, have already been mentioned. The other direction that has been discussed at the Legislative Committee is that which suggests that individual sports organisations are members of national sports associations, which have their own property rights. However, the current legislation, as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, makes it compulsory for national sports associations to approve contracts concluded for more than one year in respect of property rights by the main decision-making body, the general assembly. The convening of the general assembly of national sports associations is an extremely difficult and lengthy task, which prevents rapid business decisions. It is proposed that, in the case of national sports professional associations, the association's administration body and presidency would be entitled to approve contracts on property rights. In the debate, it was said to give too much power - in a quotation sign - to amend the bill so that the Presidency, as my fellow Member has said, basically bases sports corruption. I don't agree with that. I think that the Presidency, starting with a very trivial, simple sentence, is also under the control of the Assembly. It is clear that the Presidency's activities should be evaluated in the annual accounts, in which case it should be addressed what decisions it has taken in respect of property rights, and what is still very important, and what I am in favour of in agreement with the justification, is that the convening of a complete, full assembly of an association can lead to a time limit that does not, however, make it unjustified to deal with this issue by following democratic rules and monitoring the rules of control, but I think that there is more reason for the Presidency to be able to take these decisions. I was not convinced by my fellow Members in the legislative committee debate, so on the basis of what they said and by presenting the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr György Szilágyi. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, why the bill was submitted; we also considered it appropriate to organise amateur sports contracts. The primary reason for this was that, when the bill was submitted, the general and detailed justification somewhat contradicted each other that neither FIFA nor UEFA recognised, in my opinion quite rightly, the amateur sports contracts in the world of football, and, in the general explanation, you said that FIFA and UEFA would be able to conclude these contracts in accordance with the provisions of FIFA and UEFA, and then described in the detailed justification that FIFA and UEFA did not recognise them. So there's been a contradiction here. What I am saying is that we would have supported it, and we would have supported it now, that we should not, by the way, distinguish football from other sports, the amateur sports contracts, in my opinion, have acted on time. Here young players and young athletes - and once again, let's keep them away from football - may even create a vulnerable situation for a year if they have an amateur sports contract. Of course, I understand the other side, where associations that place great emphasis on replacements would like to receive some kind of educational cost, such as, after a player who had been raised for years, provided for years of development, material and all other human resources, that later, when he might become a professional player, they could get some money back for educational costs, and then they would be in a difficult situation. [[15.40]] There has been an example of this, so that we can figure out a way to introduce the system of educational costs in Hungary, which would ensure that the associations that raise replacements would benefit from it, if they later raised a player as a professional player and a professional athlete, then they would receive it at some level, and we would be absolutely partners in this. But the fact that we leave it to the associations, the sports unions, which think it's mandatory for you to sign an amateur sports contract and have the opportunity, I don't think it's any different than football. It should not be allowed in the handball or elsewhere to prevent children from developing simply because a talented child, say, can no longer develop in a given association and thinks he could join another association because there is an amateur sports contract. So we don't agree with that either. It is by changing the system of amateur sports contracts, so it is also a step forward that maybe there will be no football. I know that this was also quite a burden for the associations, who had to conclude and renew hundreds of thousands of contracts every year, it was not a good system, but I say that we could expand it. What we have a very big problem with, however, is what has already been said here, and that is that we would give the opportunity to allow property rights, advertising and advertising rights not to be approved by the general assembly when they conclude a contract, but by the Presidency. This is where the key statement was given to my fellow Member that he said that the Presidency was under the control of the Assembly. That's right. And now, with this law, it is precisely this control that we are trying to eliminate, so this law is precisely what is going to happen, so that in the case of such contracts, the Presidency is not under the control of the general assembly. Therefore, a Presidency can conclude a contract without the approval of the General Assembly. Referring to the difficulty and difficulty of convening the general assembly in the sports associations, I do not think that is the best reason, since there is nothing different about the convening of a general assembly of an association than the convening of a general assembly of a sports professional association. They are subject to the same rights, the same duties, they must be convened in the same way, they must be kept in the same way, the same rules provide for both. We leave this option to an association, so an association cannot enter into a contract with such rights, only with the approval of the general assembly, and in a sports professional association we take this option out of the powers of the general assembly. It's not good! So we do not want to take it out with the associations, we want it to stay so that it can only be concluded with a decision of the general meeting, with a mandate from the general meeting, and I have several examples of this. Yes, I have mentioned, unfortunately, the increasing sports corruption in Hungary, which would be good if we tried to suppress it here in the bud and in the beginning, and indeed the money that the government is spending on sports, the public money that comes to sport, would actually be translated into sport. So let's put an end to it, try to stop the spread of sport corruption as much as possible, which is why it is not good to have an opaque one here... - because in principle contracts can be cancelled, because the general assembly will not even know about it. It stands up, doesn't it, that there is a professional association in sport, and that association is part of this professional association in sport, and these associations will be subject to these property rights. I gave you an example. Think about it. The Hungarian Football Association gave the broadcasting rights to a gentleman named György Bodnár for almost penny. These broadcasting rights, when the president and chairman of the Hungarian Football Association gave them to this gentleman, were then moaned about this decision for decades, since they would have received the broadcasting awards, the NB I football prize, but they could not benefit from it, because at the time the presidency gave it almost free of charge to someone who, by the way, should I know, still have to play their commercials for the NB I matches. It may have been gone since then, but it might be over now. That is why I think it is dangerous, and therefore the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will not be able to support it, nor will we support the amendments in any way, nor will we be able to support the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, as rapporteur, Mr Bánki Erik has the opportunity to speak before the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to extend my words too long, because it seems to me that today is a sporty day, and this is the third proposal that is somehow related to sport. I have already said this at the general debate stage that the amendments contained in this bill have essentially come from the direction of alliances. The bill is 1. However, this problem has already been found in all other sports since the situation of amateur footballers has to be resolved in some way. As my fellow Member Szilágyi said, there has been a lot of abuse in the previous period with these amateur contracts, because while it lasted longer, he concluded the possibility of transferring children, certified children, and often made their careers difficult. Since there have been one-year amateur contracts, and since then, it's been a terrible administrative burden for the clubs. Overall, there are over 300,000 amateur sports contracts. Two thirds of this is football, so with virtually the 1st of July, 200,000 amateur contracts are to be rewritten each year, which means that we are talking about 300-400-500 contracts per academy, which is actually difficult to achieve in form. I am not talking about the fact that the two international football organisations - UEFA and FIFA - do not recognise the amateur contract as a viable and existing relationship. I fully agree with the need to regulate the sale of replacement players in some system. I am very confident that soon the Hungarian Football Association will be able to accept, as a pioneer in this area too, by the end of the summer, a structure that will create a transparent and clear market for re-education through the regulation of the educational compensation system; it recognises the costs incurred by associations, foundations and academies in raising and training children; and in the transfer of children or in the transfer of young players or competitors, the team who will benefit from previous training must therefore reimburse the costs of the previous period. After all, the player who completes or the competitor who becomes a professional contestant at the club will represent a very significant value. So I very much hope that we will be able to regulate this later this autumn. Article 3 §2 of the same bill, which my fellow Member objected to, I believe that we have already debated this in the general debate. As my own author, I could have accepted that we should have extended it, not only sports associations, but also associations, where appropriate, have the opportunity not to call the member assembly or the general meeting together to regulate or conclude a contract of all property rights, but also to deal with these issues with an ex post reporting obligation. Anyone who has ever participated in the management of a sports association, a sports professional association, knows exactly how difficult it is to convene a general assembly in a national professional association, how far the delegates should be called, which is practically not an easy task. I think that a Presidency, who takes itself seriously and the mandate it received from the assembly, takes it seriously, does not dare to take a step, does not dare to conclude a contract which is not in line with the mandate it received from the assembly or assembly of members of the association. [[15.50]] It is obvious that you will have to report in hindsight, since every year you will also have to hold a regular assembly of sports associations, where you will have to settle the decisions of the previous financial year, including those contracts concerning property rights, which are covered by the law. There have been some problems in the past, and I think that there has been a lot of progress in the representation system in all sports, so I trust that this mandate will be used and not abused by these sports federation presidencies. I therefore think that this regulation will in no way make the system opaque, and I think that, in addition to administrative burden reductions, it will also make it easier to operate, but it does not mean that the system will be easier, more relaxed and more unmanageable by withdrawing any supervisory powers. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. On the subject of the amendments tabled, I cannot support the content of the two opposition amendments; however, I can accept and support the amendment by the representative of Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. A time frame of 4 minutes and 20 seconds will be available to say the closing word. I will ask Mr István Simicskó State Secretary if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[On Dr. István Simicskó's signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-147	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. The amendment, the amendment of the Sports Act, has two directions, two elements: one concerning amateur sports contracts and the other concerns the powers of the Presidency, the chair of sports associations and the general assembly. The amendments have been reviewed, and the aim of the amendments is fundamentally agreed, but I have also explained on the previous occasion that we can support the amendments if the possibility of concluding amateur sports contracts remains. Obviously, given the problem that is a serious administrative burden for associations, especially for MLSZ, we would like to reduce this burden and, of course, we support the alignment of domestic federal procedures and rules with international practice. We see that Mr Simon Róbert's proposed amendment to this objective is excellent, and in this way we can support this amendment from the government. We see that any concerns that may have arisen, referring to problems of transparency, remain the requirements of transparency, since every decision taken by the Presidency will be taken into account by the Assembly and the framework within which the Presidency, the Chair of the Sports Association, can work, what opportunities it has, of course, will continue to be determined by the Assembly. We believe that this amendment will certainly give us the opportunity to make faster decisions. We cannot support amendments which, for example, contradict the content of civil law. On the other hand, Mr Robert Simon's amendment is supported by the government. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I would like to start by speaking to the Member who has registered in writing, and to Mr György Szilágyi, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the minority opinion, I made my objections to the law, and I would not repeat it, but respond to what was said here by Erik Bánki. If you and the Hungarian Football Association, as one of the largest sports professional associations in Hungary and the sports associations with most certified athletes, are really pioneering in some way in reworking the system of educational costs and developing a standard that can be applied in other sports disciplines, we are fully open to this question, and we will also be able to support a bill of this kind. Of course, I would just like to point out, as an idea, that it would be good to arrange the reward of the coaches on a level other than the fundraiser's own, because they play a very important role in raising a player; it would be good if they could also receive some kind of financial appreciation if they were to raise players who would become good players or professional athletes, and this could also lead to a change of attitude among the coaches. I do not think it is necessary for my fellow Members to say that it is still difficult to change the coaches in replacement training to the fact that it does not matter that they will win a championship in adolescent 4 or not win a championship, so that we should not think in teams, but rather focus individual training on children. Unfortunately, it is still results-oriented, perhaps too results-oriented, while in the West this is done in a completely different way. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] Perhaps in such a modified system a player monitoring system could be built, which I think is very lacking in Hungary, and which worked very well in the 1980s, by the way, when associations and serious associations were operating a whole network in Hungary, where these player observers were playing lower-class matches and trying to discover the talents that would otherwise not have been able to get to, say, one of the associations in Budapest, because either their lifestyle or where they were born, they were disadvantaged by not being able to travel from a small village to Budapest. These players have indeed filled the gap between the large clubs, the larger clubs and smaller clubs in Hungary, but unfortunately this has ceased in Hungary, and I think this could be good. So we can really be partners in this. However, we do not want to, which is why I have always said this in fear that the general assembly of the association and the general assembly of the sports professional association have the same problems, if we call this a problem when we call it together, so we do not want this part to be removed from the associations as we cling to it. No, we don't want this opportunity to be given anywhere, so we wouldn't be partners in this. Unfortunately, it is not because it has also been said here that the General Assembly will authorise the Presidency, and then the Presidency will operate with the mandate of the General Assembly, but unfortunately we can give negative examples. Because I say again that it is not a sports union, of course, but the Paralympic Committee works in the same way, and I do not believe that the Parliamentary Assembly would have authorised the chairmanship of the Paralympic Committee to do the things that have been revealed in the past. I do not believe that the General Assembly has authorized the President or the Vice-President to spend 3 million forints of the money of the Paralympic Committee on the repayment of the President's own loan; or that they have contributed to, say, the President's own minivan being rented by the Paralympic Committee, and then, contrary to the contract, do not attach casco to it, and then, when stolen, double the amount of money that was in the police report. So, unfortunately, there are some examples that are coming back, and I would add that this is also important for the Paralympic Committee, because if there were no such media interest, that if the media had not dealt with this matter so much, then I am convinced that, as it is, they would have been smoothed out, because they would have either intimidated the members of the assembly, because they depended on the Presidency in some form, or they would have done different tricks in the accounts when they reported to the general assembly, say, in the economic accounts, that they would have eliminated these items, and, in fact, a general meeting, let us admit, is not suitable to go completely, deeply into every spending, every such thing. It is therefore important that contracts, such contracts of substantial value, can be decided responsibly by a general meeting. Just yesterday, when we were discussing the water world, and we were discussing a proposal for an amendment, Lajos Kósa said here that they would definitely like to get it from FINA - and that is why they are fighting and working on it - the broadcasting rights so that MTVA can operate them in connection with the water world, because he can see the value of it, whether for advertising purposes or for building Hungary's image, and probably from a business point of view it is a serious asset right. [[16.00]] So we should not give up such property rights, such advertising contracts or various mediation contracts, nor should this be clearly referred only to the Presidency, especially if this Presidency does not manage responsibly, not responsibly, it works in the interests of its own athletes, but also puts its self-interest first. Like I said, there were examples. So that's why we can't support it. But again, I would very much like for the Hungarian Football Association to play a pioneering role and indeed for amateur sports contracts and the whole educational cost system to be settled in a short time. I think both parents and athletes would like that. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-06-30-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to Congressman Bánki Erik for closing. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that no substantive new information or opinions were raised at the debate stage, there is nothing further to evaluate. I would like to highlight one thing, however, and to answer one thing, Mr Szilágyi, Member of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee's Presidency. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Let us not draw a parallel, honourable Member, to the management of otherwise valuable rights managed by the bill, i.e. advertising contracts and other property rights, to long-term contracts lasting for more than one year, and to be granted here, only in this case would the Presidency be authorised to conclude contracts without convening a general assembly. Obviously, in the case of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, it was not about such property rights, advertising contracts, advertising contracts or mediation rights, but it was in the framework of a normal association bureau operation that decisions were taken that the membership dissuaded. The consequences of this have come to pass. I think that this example just shows that it is not possible to throw away and break away from the opinion of the president of an alliance or of a presidency, of membership, of the assembly, because it will always have consequences. That is what I said in my introduction when I referred to the fact that in the past 15-20 years, the culture of sports leadership in Hungary has developed so much that they no longer abuse it today, but use such administrative and operational reliefs as this bill contains. That is why I am asking my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill. Mr President, thank you very much for the time frame and the attention of my fellow Members. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-30-152	Welcome, fellow Members. After the closing, the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Here comes the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. Act XXXIV of 2004 on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The T/4820. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-30-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the Law on Consumer Protection and the T/4820 amending the Law on small and medium-sized enterprises and their promotion. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the one-point amendment of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the government amendment number 1 and 2 of the Legislative Committee. The purpose of the amendment of the above-mentioned laws is to transpose Directive 2013/11/EU on alternative dispute resolution into Hungarian law and to establish legal harmonisation. This will allow reconciliation bodies to operate within the same framework in all EU countries. At present, the Consumer Protection Act regulates the functioning of the domestic conciliation bodies, the main issues of its procedure, and sets out obligations to inform businesses. In view of this, it is necessary to transpose the new legislation by amending the Consumer Protection Act, bearing in mind that in Article M of Hungary's Fundamental Law it was laid down that Hungary ensures the conditions of fair economic competition, Hungary takes action against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. The general duty of cooperation is defined in the law, which is two-way to the conciliation body. On the one hand, the company involved in the dispute is obliged to send a reply on the merits of the consumer's position and the substance of the case. In addition, the undertaking should ensure the participation of a person who may be authorised to enter into an agreement in the proceedings, since the Committee is attempting to establish a settlement in the event of the joint presence of the parties. The justification of the law refers to a detailed table and contains a detailed statement of why the amendment to the consumer protection legislation is relevant. I do not wish to list it, since it is contained in the explanatory memorandum, but the trend that this shows is that, after the 3542 case number in 2006, 10 210 cases were brought before the conciliation bodies in 2014, where there is a need for substantial change. In view of the fact that the previous sanction system in the Consumer Protection Act did not allow substantial action to be taken by producers of products that affect a wide range of consumer groups - from furniture to any consumer goods - it was therefore justified not only for EU legislation but also for a tightening of the scope for imposing fines on those undertakings. As a novelty, and I would like to draw attention to this, the SME sector has a responsibility, of course, as small and medium-sized enterprises are also producers of products, in their case the amendment of the law includes the obligation to give a meaningful answer before the conciliation board meeting and to provide a statement that solves the issue and delegates the right person. If they do not comply, they can receive an increasing fine starting with HUF 15,000. I think that this amendment is also suitable for preventing consumer complaints from persisting, and I therefore ask that the legislative committee, in agreement with its proposal, support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-30-154	I would like to ask Secretary Ákos Kara if he would like to comment now. [[Ákos Kara: In the end.]] At the end. Thank you. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2015-06-30-155	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that we are not able to differ much from what we said at the general stage of the debate, since we see that three of the amendments that have been tabled contain grammar or spelling clarification. In one case, there could be no major technical dispute, but also, in the case of the fact that when the head office or establishment of the undertaking concerned is not registered in the county of the Chamber operating the territorially competent conciliation body, what happens then. In this case, it would also be appropriate to facilitate negotiations, agreement as quickly and as easily as possible, but to add that, in fact, at the end of an EU implementation series, which we are talking about, at the end of the otherwise legitimate support for the work of the conciliation bodies, we do not see that the basic questions are clarified how, from what, along with what increase in resources, these conciliating bodies will be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them more effectively than previously. We also need to see that this threat or threat to sanctions alone is not going to get many businesses moving on the brink of the grey economy to agree, and others are obviously going to. So, basically, the initiative is going in the right direction, so let's not debate this. At the same time, we see that the whole consumer protection area is being pushed back in this government cycle. [[16.10]] It is not the first time that he has had a separate committee in this area during the previous four-year period. The Consumer Protection Committee has certainly worked well compared to a new plenum, it has had professional hearings, it has had recommendations which, by the way, also come back in some better successful legislative proposals. Now we see that, since this area has been merged into the Economic Commission, we are faced with relatively few legislative proposals, amendments and proposals for decisions of a consumer nature, even though we also have to take into account that the number of areas worth intervention has increased slightly, it is enough to mention consumer groups only, where new ones may no longer be created, but the former ones can still rob Hungarian citizens. It is enough to think of the systematic deception of the elderly, the so-called product shows, where, although our signals have already been taken by the government, there has been some attempt to intervene, but we are still concerned that Jobbik's representatives in Budapest have personally had to step out for so-called product presentations, notify the authorities, and stop the free robbery that is going on there, the looting of elderly people, innocent people. So, as long as this is to be prevented by some means by an opposition representative in the capital, I think it can be said that the supervisory system is not yet fully fixed, and this otherwise completely unnecessary institution, such as the legal system of product presentations that deceive older people, should at least be called into question. We could also talk for a very long time about fair competition, how much this is happening in Hungary, how different public transfers distort competition, I would say to a large extent. To mention one example: in the case of the so-called food chain monitoring fee, it can be observed that foreign companies, to which the legislator has in principle imposed this type of tax, can almost completely avoid this type of tax, with a clever portfolio arrangement - i.e. by the clever preparation and dismembering of their empire - and the aim of which would be to involve the undertakings concerned in public burdens, whose tracks we do not see. We also see that, while conciliation bodies are obliged to maintain a website with specific data content, with others, we are going in a very good direction, in a direction that will finally bring this to the XX. In terms of information technology and consumer protection issues, the legislative standards of the 21st century have been slightly shifted by the 21st century. towards the century. We would also like to see how much resources the reconciliation bodies will receive for this. So what kind of extra resources this institutional system can manage, and how does the whole wide-ranging consumer protection area benefit from at least the revenues that the Hungarian State collects from consumer abuse, or through the supervisory system such funds are included in the budget. We say that if only 10 percent of these incoming funds were used to improve this system, it would be very effective to prevent future abuse, series of abuses, but we have not seen any substantial evidence of this in the budget - despite our amendments, as they have been swept down - and there is no evidence in government action that they would support the consumer protection area with such a large amount of money, including the work of conciliation bodies. It should be expected that the legislator should not only set new tasks for them, but also allocate the necessary resources to them. To sum up, therefore, I can say that what lies in front of us is eligible, although it organizes only partial areas; it is very painful that not only Budapest and not only do it along with Hungarian ideas, but there is also an external pressure in this system; and there are many other areas that need to be intervened. So I urge the government to come forward with a number of consumer protection initiatives in the near future. We will, for our part, be partners in the implementation of any improving amendment proposal. But to do so, we need you, too, so that the consumer protection area is not so neglected, at least to pay attention to it as in the previous four-year-old's own cycle. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-156	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-06-30-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Secondly, we are discussing the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act. As explained for the first time, the main directions of the amendment are very timely and eligible. It is timely, because we know that customers and consumers are increasingly vulnerable, that goods made in an endless supply chain across many continents are placed on the shelves of shops, in the shopping basket; if you buy at all in shops and not on the Internet. The distance between the seller and the buyer has increased geographically and unparalleledly, and it is therefore justified and appropriate to increase consumer mobility and to strengthen consumer protection. The fundamental direction of the amendment is also correct, at least when the subject first came before the plenary session. In any case, we have considered it positive at first reading to increase the reconciliation importance of the consumer debate, the amendment that companies that are not involved in dispute resolution or who act in bad faith can be sanctioned. This was not only a virtue of the proposal because it makes consumer reconciliation itself more effective, but also frees justice and courts. Compared to the majority of civil and criminal lawsuits, these are mostly petty cases, so they don't or don't take up the time of judges and courts. If only a little, the justice system can accelerate in Hungary. And if I wanted to be ironic, I could say that I am positive that people and businesses are finally receiving some valuable service from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is what this body is meant to conduct. Of course, we also mentioned the flaws of the proposal, especially the fact that online purchases are all part of the Budapest Chamber. For a customer in Sopron, Pécs, Pécsaba or Nyíregyháza, this is more than an inconvenience. We urged small businesses to have the legal status of consumers, which would make it easier for them to do so, for example, if they were involved with public utility companies. Unfortunately, that's not a rarity at all. The government did not want to listen to this legitimate request of the SME sector. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pity that by the time we reached the summary amendment debate, the virtues of the proposal were still worn out. The steering wheel took two hesitant steps forward, then a big step back. In addition to the technical and clarification amendments, we can see only one substantial change, and this greatly undermines the already nuanced overall picture. What's this about? If the head office or establishment of the undertaking concerned by the consumer dispute is not registered in the county of the Chamber operating the territorially competent conciliation body, then the cooperation obligation now imposed is already undermined. While this is the only novelty of the law amendment, this could be the only real step forward. In such cases, where the undertaking is not registered in the county of the place of sale, the correspondence between the parties remains, so no real negotiation or conciliation takes place. We don't have to go far to see that this is also a real danger. It seems that large companies have successfully lobbyed at the last minute to soften the changes. Dear Parliament, The LMP, if it tastes bad, will vote for the proposal. But it is a huge disappointment that the government side is not capable of taking meaningful action for people and small businesses when it knows precisely how to see it. This hesitation on the government side is disappointing, and we should finally see that it is not possible to serve consumers and large corporate lobbying at the same time. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-06-30-158	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2015-06-30-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the field of consumer protection, so-called reconciliation bodies have been operating in Hungary since 1999 - although this is not only so-called, as it is also their official name - in addition to the commercial and industrial chambers of the capital and county. They are responsible for the free and rapid settlement of disputes between consumers and businesses. Reconciliation bodies avoid expensive court routes for consumers, and there is no need for consumers to initiate civil or non-court proceedings in order to resolve their dispute with businesses, services and commercial units. The aim of the proposal is to transpose the European Union directives by 5 July 2015; corrected by 9 July 2015. [[Laughing:]] There's still four days left for the government to come into effect. In order to transpose the Directive, it is therefore necessary to establish a legal framework for the functioning of ADR entities, including new requirements for conciliation bodies and businesses. [[16.20]] The proposal submitted is in accordance with Article M of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which states that Hungary ensures the conditions of fair economic competition. This in itself is a very nice saying, and we would be very happy if the government did so and not taken measures contrary to the market economy. This is a refreshing exception, if you like, to ensure the conditions of fair economic competition in the context of the transposition of EU legislation. Furthermore, the Fundamental Law states that Hungary takes action against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. In this way, it is a little strange what has already been said that the government support of the conciliation bodies was HUF 375 million in 2010, at least that is what was available, but the 2014 figure now contains only HUF 360 million and HUF 316 million in 2015. This available resource is not sufficient for the functioning of conciliation bodies and for the training required by law for the development of their knowledge. So if you want to take your own proposal seriously, along with the amendments, I suggest that you also take into account what came as an amendment. Then the first step is to provide financial coverage for this operation, especially given that the government proudly reports that the Tax and Customs Office has taken 200 billion HUF more as a result of the operation of online cash registers, which is really a welcome thing, or the introduction of the EKÁER, the electronic freight inspection is a success. Thus, there is also an income available to the government that is the result of an innovation. A different kind of innovation in the area of consumer protection would be worth sacrificing. Well-functioning alternative procedures encourage consumers to seek solutions to their problems of purchasing products and using services, not to put up with the harm and harm they suffer. Fortunately, consumers are turning to domestic reconciliation bodies with increasing confidence, with a significant increase in the number of cases. The annual number of reconciliation bodies has increased by an average of 20 percent in recent years, probably due not only to more problems but also to more people turning to them with confidence. In 2006, this reported 3,500 cases, with more than 10,000 cases closed in 2014. It is also interesting to say the attitude of the government and, in general, the majority of governments to the importance of consumer protection. While previously a case-by-case committee and then a standing committee dealt with consumer protection issues, so until 2010, it was essentially an on-going ad hoc committee, between 2010 and 14 Parliament had a permanent consumer protection committee, while in the current cycle of 14-18 no greater emphasis was placed on the area than the government's earlier promises, and there is currently no standing committee on consumer society in the Hungarian Parliament. We resent that, we miss him. If you want to meet the challenge of life on the one hand and the European Union's legal order to be adapted on the other, then you must take two steps. It is necessary to restore the Consumer Protection Committee in the Hungarian Parliament, indicating that they want to place sufficient weight in this area, and to provide resources for the development of the work of conciliation bodies. It is also necessary to complete a mission of a kind to inform the work of the conciliatory bodies. The wider the level of consumers should know that they have such an opportunity and feel free to turn to reconciliation bodies with confidence. I am sure that this will then have a preventive effect, and in this respect the part of the proposal which obliges businesses to take part in this exercise with sufficient weight should not be able to deflect the legal institution of the conciliation body. So if these three conditions, some of which are now fulfilled by legislation, and some of them can be achieved through source insurance, the establishment of a standing committee in Parliament can be created even during the mid-term of the term - I think next year, because they have driven so many house changes here that they could really take such a gesture - then all of this could result in an increase in prevention. Thus, undesirable cases that we can witness every day against consumers can be prevented by increasing the seriousness of the whole commercial and business operation by not trying to trick consumers, because they know that they will be caught in a short fashion. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-30-160	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2015-06-30-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The fortunate situation was that there were all opposition issues that could be supported. For example, it is possible to support the issue of whether, if the Hungarian small entrepreneur is really confronted with a utility company or a larger service provider and there is a dispute, this Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise can be treated as a consumer. We know the principles of law that say yes, basically yes, but it still needs to be clarified whether this applies from a consumer point of view in all cases. Is this possible in the course of the proceedings and can we make life easier for Hungarian small businesses by opening this gate to the widest possible extent? We also need to support a standing committee, where appropriate, to address these issues. This is a perfectly good, legitimate, relevant point, and we see nothing wrong with the fact that it will take place in the coming months, or even in six months' time. Think about this, because the one-year attempt to merge the Consumer Protection Committee elsewhere has clearly failed. But the most important thing we would encourage you to do is to allocate at least 10% of the fines and other amounts from consumer protection matters to this area. It can be seen that, while the sum of the various e-type regulations, which was added to the state register, there is still a thousand billion-dollar income. There is, therefore, a difference in the magnitude of a thousand billion between the amount of tax paid, which can actually be realised and what should be expected from the economic indicators. It is clear, then, that there is another mass of resources here that could be touched if this gap were to be reduced. There is already a hundred billion-dollar scale that has come in through various improvements, so it would be expected that at least 10 percent of this or the relevant part of it will be used to strengthen the consumer protection system. Just because these invested forints could bring more forints by the end of this government cycle than you're sending here. We therefore urge you to accept these improving amendments, as their purpose is to save Hungary countless forints in this budget cycle, in addition to protecting the interests of consumers and consumers. To add, these are very often forints that are unduly taken and pumped out of the country by international networks, which we simply cannot leave at that. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[16.30]]
u2015-06-30-162	I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2015-06-30-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for your views and comments in the previous stages of debate. I would like to confirm that, of course, we support the amendments that are made here by the Legislative Committee. After all, these are proposals that must be supported; obviously I am not talking about language-righteous amendments. If you'll allow me, I'd like to respond to the comments made by the fellow Members. After all, I have noticed that a number of comments have been made regarding the amendment of the Legislative Committee, which may indeed be related to the area. The first was raised by the betterman and another opposition representative on the source. The question is whether the conciliatory bodies have the source that they can begin the next period and the next year with the certainty that they can carry out their duties on the basis of their faith, professional knowledge, undertaking, human and professional knowledge. I said in the general debate, and I would like to confirm that I have the view that with that budget, the conciliation bodies can safely start the next year and the rest of the year. I mean, think about it, that's exactly what we're trying to do. If we strengthen reconciliation bodies now, we will strengthen consumer rights, consumer rights, precisely by the conciliation bodies. Our goal is to ensure that these bodies can do this work with proper competence and proper timing. Obviously, if it seems that for some reason they cannot resolve this from the available source, then we can take action ourselves. But I do not see the risk of that this year or the next year, which is why we made that proposal in relation to the budget. What has been said on the part of Jobbik and on the part of the governing parties in previous debates, I would like to confirm from the government side and from the side of my secretary of state. Indeed, we are preparing for product presentations, because I would also like us to take a step towards product presentations. If I may, I would point out to my fellow Members that this is actually a cat and mouse fight, because there are always steps on the part of the authority, there are always government interventions. There must be people connected to the opposition party in Budapest, but there are a lot of people in Hungary who, by their office or even in some other NGO, have done a lot to prevent the use of older people who take part in such product presentations. So, if you're in this area, you know they change shape, shape, the way they try to take advantage of the elderly a lot. Obviously, the legislative proposal, which, as I see it, is formulated by the governing parties, I think, serves as and in this respect fully in line with the opinion of our State Secretary, our ministry, to try to exclude and protect, as far as possible, the elderly, and to protect those who are being tried to exploit in this sense, sometimes, I must say, in a rather amazing way. But those who deal with this area know that there are quite amazing phenomena. I do not agree with the conclusion that consumer protection in general is in the background. After all, if you think about the current legislative amendment that we are discussing, which is about an already growing body, an already growing number of cases, which, translated, means that consumers, families, consumers, will have greater confidence in reconciliation bodies, we will be able to strengthen them. So I think, in this sense, that consumer protection will in no way be put in the background. In fact, I have to say that the very points that I have brought up here, as well as during the general debate and the previous stages of debate, indicate that we would like to strengthen this issue before the public. You may recall, for example, that we intended to take a knight's step with regard to carbon monoxide meters, since in a short time we started to clean up the market twice, if that term should be used, so that the removal of devices from the market which endanger families and lives. I think that was a good decision, too. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by László Földi.]] During the general debate, I said that our better fellow Member spoke about it, and I also confirm that action must be taken in the world of the Internet, with the help of the Internet, or in the context of conciliation bodies. If we look at the matter in a large context, it is indeed about a greater number of consumers and consumers knowing that there is now an opportunity for them. For the past few weeks, I have promised, and we have indeed done so. We have turned to the reconciliation bodies and the county trade and industrial chambers, and we have asked for help to draw attention from both businesses and customers and consumers to the fact that the opportunity to and should protect consumer rights is broadening. I agree with my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, and I have also told the conciliation body and the Chamber of Győr-Moson-Sopron County, if it is possible to give a concrete example that the Internet interface should be used much more. We have suggested that they try to solve this world in a better, more modern, more accessible, more open form. I think that both cost-effectiveness and simplicity and practicality need to be taken into account in this matter. I kept the promise, we kept what we did in the general debate. We've started in the last few weeks, and in these days, we're going to finish the trekking with the conciliatory bodies. The Secretary of State has sat down with all conciliatory bodies in the country. We have talked about how we should, for example, improve communication on the outside, what suggestions we can make for people, in the remaining stations. Of course, and then it's up to the conciliatory bodies themselves to make use of it. So it is worth considering this proposal in such a way that everyone has to do their job, of course. That's the way we do things. On behalf of the LMP, she noted that it was timely. Of course, I think so myself. This was a timely proposal. I really agree, you may remember, during the general debate, I referred to the fact that, during the period where I could, I spoke about the need to provide additional protection and guarantees in terms of the subject of online shopping. I very much hope that, if it is up to me, there will be a proposal in this House, here in Parliament, for us to be able to talk about it. I will continue to say that, on another subject, dear notary, there may be some mistake or misunderstanding about the interpretation of the bill by LMP. After all, as far as large companies are concerned, he is in it, and we have just confirmed it with the business of the establishment. It is precisely those large companies that have a national network that are selling electronic products, not only have they gone further than the control, but they have just entered the control area. So we just pulled them in on this issue. And it is precisely what almost all opposition representatives have raised, I say, as a legitimate concern, and we too, on the part of the governing parties, have seen a legitimate concern about small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the smallest Hungarian businesses. I say to the notary, that is why we have finally modified it in a certain way, so that we do not make it impossible for Hungarian businesses of one or two to make small businesses, when we oblige, say, the head of a shop in Debrecen to travel to Győr, if there is a consumer starting there. Then his business in Debrecen should be shut down for the day he's on his way to the reconciliation board in Győr so he can walk this road, this procedure. It is in their best interest that the amendment of the Legislative Committee finally opens up the fact that it is able to deal with a written document and, where appropriate, to justify its work. [[16.40]] But his lifelike nature dictates that there will be much more personal proceedings, much more when the business that operates the business must attend the conciliation panel's trial, since, of course, it is vital that the customer or the company that operates the business is obviously located in a geographically close location. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I have to say that in a compromise we have tried to find the way, the opportunity that pushes the big ones, and for the little ones some additional burden, it is not an unnecessary burden. And, Mr President, if I may, I would like to refer to one more point on the contribution of our fellow MSZP Member. If you'll allow me, I can continue to say that you can confidently turn to the conciliatory bodies, that reconciliation bodies will be able to do that work, that they will be able to perform the task that we will now be able to strengthen. This bill protects the interests of customers. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-164	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our later meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the revision of the national accreditation system and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. T/5142 submitted by representatives of Kristóf Szatmáry, Péter Cseresnyés and Imre Vas. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-30-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 25 June 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/5142 on the transformation of the national accreditation system. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, we discussed the amendment proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs under points 1 and 2 and the legislative committee's own amendment proposal, the main part of which settles the issue of procedural continuity. This was also a priority issue and a problem during the committee's negotiations. Our committee supported the intention to amend by 25 votes in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention. Clearly, according to the new rules, accreditation procedures in Hungary will be significantly cheaper and faster. Let me mention, for example, that administrative service charges will be cancelled in a significant part of the cases, for example, the range of administrative service charges linked to the change notification will be significantly reduced. The annual review fee will also be cancelled, which cost the companies tens of thousands of forints. The procedural time will be several months, even six months shorter, shorter than before. So far, the practice has endangered the operation and international competitiveness of many Hungarian companies, because their accreditation has been compromised and their position on the international market has been shaken. We've had a lot of complaints. Highly problematic areas, for example, have proved to be the area of confidentiality obligations or the protection of the property rights of complainants. There are clearly intolerable conditions in this area, which need to be modified and improved in order to improve the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and to meet the expectations of Hungarian entrepreneurs. In the light of what has been said, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 25 votes to 10, with 1 abstention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-166	The Commission's minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-06-30-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill that came before us and which Kristóf Szatmáry submitted is nearly two pages, and if we read it, we can see what two sides it is. Compared to this, the amendments that have come forward can be said that the bill that Kristóf Szatmáry has submitted has improved, so much more detailed description of the transformation of the accreditation system, so here the tasks of the accreditation body are already defined in the legislative amendment; the system of accreditation procedures is defined; inter alia, the amendment proposals define the rules for supervision of the accredited organisation and the natural person. So it must be said that, indeed, compared to that proposal, and I could list a lot of things from the recognition of foreign accredited status, compared to what Kristóf Szatmáry submitted as an individual representative, this is much better, so the amendments made the bill much better, but only the bill, because the Movement for Jobbik Hungary does not agree with the form in which you intend to change the accreditation system. And we do not agree with him just because they want to change the accreditation system, but because this change puts accredited laboratories and all other related institutions in Hungary at risk. If you don't believe us, let me give you just one example. My fellow Member Kepli will also list a number of examples. To give you one example, Dr. Gábor Nagy is a leading university professor, senior advisor, director of the Criminal Experts and Research Institute, who gives the following opinion. I would like to mention in the opinion of the bill that, in the absence of accreditation, it is impossible for the police to carry out criminal investigations, including the justice system, because DNA tests for criminal purposes can only be carried out by law and only in an accredited laboratory. So this is not just about market players, but it is about the Hungarian police, whether it is about the defence or institutions that do not operate on the market, and it is not just about market players. So once again, we disagree. From 1 January 2016 there will be problems; we believe that there will be problems, because the transition will not be adequate, so we did not support the bill either. And, by the way, once again, the amendments really made this law better, but this law is not good, even with amendments, in our opinion. But my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, will explain more about our opinion and will also give us the details of the problems we have left with this whole proposal professionally. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-168	I will ask the author, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Not now. I ask you, on behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to comment. (To be indicated:) You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-30-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Increasing the competitiveness of domestic businesses is a primary interest of the national economy. This can be supported primarily by appropriate, clearer legislation, which only intervenes to the most necessary extent in the life of businesses. This is what the government's red tape measures are for. National accreditation in its current form does not facilitate or even hinder the operation of businesses. We know of a number of international and Hungarian companies that have not been able to obtain accreditation in certain areas since 2013, even though they are an internationally significant and long-standing compliance assessment undertaking. The motion for a reform of the national accreditation system and the amendments tabled to it contain effective guarantees that the accreditation procedure will be cheaper and shorter. The procedural deadlines are reduced by several months only by the power of the law. The accreditation procedure is reduced by two months, the supervisory review procedure is reduced by nearly one month. [[16.50]] The period of time after which the undertaking can start its accredited activities will be further reduced by months by the re-alignment of the redress system. The government will further reduce the current administrative burden during the drafting of implementing regulations. The proposed amendments adequately ensure that the procedures continue with the termination of the National Accreditation Board and the establishment of a new accreditation body, and the Government will do its utmost to ensure that the international recognition of the new accreditation body is swift and smooth. The bill contributes not only to the shortening of procedures, but also to a significant reduction in the associated costs and, in some cases, to the abolition. According to the bill, no administrative service fee is to be paid for future changes in the entity's data, nor is it necessary to pay for the annual compulsory supervision. This results in a hundred thousand-dollar saving in itself. For example, the untenable situation will disappear if an accredited SME changes ownership in one area, which alone means that it will have to pay up to HUF 150,000. This will not cost the company in the future. Dear Parliament, The National Accreditation Board shall accredit more than six hundred individuals engaged in certification activities. With this law, the forthcoming implementing regulations and fee regulation, we are making a significant step towards increasing their success and their international competitiveness. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-170	The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Árpád Velez.
u2015-06-30-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, this law came in as an independent motion, with zero social consultations - we have already discussed this in the previous debate - which did not surprise me. On the basis of the amendments that appear to have been made to the TAB, certain people have been consulted on the market, I think, which is why this proposal had to be amended, although we do not yet feel its perfection. With the termination of the NAT without successor, Hungary's membership of the European accreditation cooperation will automatically cease. We didn't get an answer to how they thought this membership wouldn't end. How long will it take for Hungary to become a member of the European accreditation cooperation? What are the disadvantages if Hungary is not represented? Mr Tallas Secretary of State has just mentioned that the government is doing everything in its power to resolve this. You are doing everything you can and you are not making sense to me, we would like to hear specifics. The test results and certificates of organisations accredited by the Panel shall be recognised by accreditation bodies and other authorities in all countries to which 98 percent of our exports are directed. What about these organizations? Of the 628 organisations with currently accredited status, 207, or more than one third, should be subject to an annual supervisory review in August to December 2015, which NAT can no longer do according to the bill. As a result, the annual supervision of these organisations should not take place within the time limits and the maintenance of their accredited status becomes questionable. Based on all this, I ask what the fate of the 207 organizations will be. This chaotic situation will continue until the new body acquires the status of signatories to the European Mutual Recognition Agreements. As far as we know, it's two years in the lower voice. What about the next two years? That is also a question I would like to be answered. This also means that sooner or later by the end of this period, all organisations currently accredited by NAT will lose their qualifications on the basis of which they can issue certificates accepted both in the EU and internationally. My fellow Member, Szilágyi, said that the police's criminal and investigative work, including justice, is impossible. I wouldn't repeat that. From 1 January 2016, reports on greenhouse gas emissions will not be validated by national accredited verifiers. Nearly 200 operators must use the services of accredited foreign verifiers, which is a multiple of Hungarian prices. I have no quarrel with my fellow Member Vécsey. I'm sure the current system is malfunctioning, but I can't understand why it wasn't submitted to the current system or to the NAT, why this whole structure had to be disrupted to such an extent. Until we have a solution and answers to our questions, unfortunately, we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
u2015-06-30-172	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2015-06-30-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the summarised amendment proposal, we cannot support - as my colleague György Szilágyi has already said - this bill, just as we did not intend to support the original proposal. As an independent motion by Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, a proposal of such magnitude, which changes the entire Hungarian accreditation system and puts it on a new footing, was already difficult for us to digest, but they avoided the social consultation of the proposal. However, the fact that, as a summary amendment proposal, a completely new law is put before us, which is no longer an amendment to the accreditation law, but a law on complete accreditation on a new basis, with interpreting provisions and all the props that, according to codification, have to be a law, but that is the avoidance of parliament. They have therefore avoided not only social consultation, but also Parliament's debate, because here we have to give an opinion on a complete bill in a rather limited time frame, which would have at least a general debate, and before that, a detailed social consultation in order to have a proper opinion. It is obvious that this bill was motivated by some kind of ulterior motive, otherwise it should not have been so, so to speak, slylyly conducted through the whole procedure, both in Parliament and in the process of social consultation; or it was not carried out there, because it was not. This procedure has been classified many times over the last five years, why you are bringing important, far-reaching laws before Parliament as a motion for an independent representative. This way, it can obviously be carried through faster, and, as I said, social consultation can also be avoided, but this could still make the bill a good, even eligible one, because this is the procedural part, which we consider to be completely deplorable and reprehensible. However, we do not see any evidence in substance that, with the termination of the National Accreditation Board, Hungarian accreditation will be maintained and will work without any problems occurring after 1 January 2016 in the national accreditation system. After all, as has already been said by my fellow Members, there are organisations accredited in Hungary today in the most diverse areas of life, from the judicial laboratory to the environmental measuring bodies to the food inspection authorities, and all of this, whether government organisations, authorities or companies operating in the competition sector, has simply become uncertain of the system under which they can carry out their activities after 1 January 2016 and with which accreditation they can carry out their activities. The fact that Hungary loses its membership of the European Accreditation Body will not have an organisation that would be a member of this body will result in companies or governmental or non-governmental organisations that are active in international markets not being able to measure or carry out accreditation activities in a certified manner abroad. We cannot support the law without getting answers to these questions, this group of questions. There has been no substantive response to this in the debate so far, and there is no indication that they will be able to respond to this at all. Last time, Kristóf Szatmáry read a letter that supports the initiative that he presented to Parliament to bring the National Accreditation Board to an end, because how badly the National Accreditation Board works. It may be malfunctioning, and I'll even sign that it's malfunctioning, because obviously every organization has flaws, so it could be a smaller or bigger mistake for the National Accreditation Board. But if that's the case, then what's the way to eliminate it? It is to transform the organization that has been operating for 20 years and has gained prestige on the international stage. [[17.00]] First we try to transform it, and if it doesn't work, because it has such radical flaws or disabilities that it can't be corrected by amending the law or changing the powers, then we will eliminate it and create a new one instead, even a government-supervised organization; that would be a completely normal thing. But why do you expect us to support the proposal that you are bringing in without any prior five-party or all-party agreement as an independent motion? They will not inform us of their goals or background, they will try to move it through Parliament as quickly as possible, even in the extraordinary summer session, and will enter into force from 1 January 2016. So you can obviously do it, although you don't have two thirds, but that's not necessary, you can have this law passed by a simple majority, you have the necessary number, but you don't expect the support of the opposition, because we can't assist in something we don't know the details of. So we're not going to fill out a blank check with you writing about what the new national accreditation organisation will be, how it will work, what your licenses will be, what conditions you can become a member of, and how your supervision will work at all. A number of questions are clarified by this summarised amendment proposal, but it does reveal some vague questions that we were curious about, but there are still a number of vague details - and these are the essential elements - that would essentially determine whether this system will operate in Hungary from 1 January 2016 or not. Therefore, we will not be able to support either the summarised amendment or the final vote on the bill in the final vote. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-174	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2015-06-30-175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is not too late for them to come to their senses, because I am trying to put it in your legal language: there is a case of serious damage to the law by what you are now doing. Not only the elimination of the National Accreditation Board, which has a 20-year history, but also the damage is on the side of more than 600 NAT-accredited bodies, and on the side of more than 200 companies to be accredited this year or to be accredited in the near future. So you're gonna destroy me first, and you're not gonna try to fix me. It's an area where there's slow construction. It is necessary to have a well-prepared organisation, and not to be recognised by the recognition bodies that you are comfortable with, that the new body corresponds to everything that the National Accreditation Board currently meets. The Secretary of State Tállai and Congressman Vécsey say that accreditation work will be faster and cheaper. You know, that reminds me of the inscription in one of the company's adverts that says, "We work well, quickly and cheaply." You can decide which of these three will be chosen, because only two can be achieved at once. So if it's fast and cheap, it's not good; if it's good and cheap, it's not fast. It is important to know this about quality work, that if you have to concentrate on it, it requires additional resources, so the cost is higher. You can hardly say that, by magic, one of the three criteria must meet all three, because it is simply contrary to the quality and organisation of quality work. They are not aware of the many connections they have with the abolition of the National Accreditation Board. An example was given by Congressman Szilágyi, which relates to the police's law enforcement work, but there are many such things that could be said. So I suggest that it is not too late to withdraw this proposal. It was a hasty motion by its representatives, and experts with the Ministry were trying to improve it, but the move is incorrigible that you will abolish the National Accreditation Board. This should be withdrawn and, together with the experts, bring a reform law that ensures continuous operation here to Parliament, which meets the objectives which Mr Vécsey has set out, because they can generally be agreed with. It analyses the specific problems in the work of the National Accreditation Board, which currently has all the certificates, that what it does not already have is easier to complete than to cut and wait for it to grow again in three years; not to mention the cost increase that has been said here that the Slovak Accreditation Body is doing this for four times as much costs. There they count in euros, they know that there will be an emergency situation in Hungary if you terminate the National Accreditation Board and give Hungarian firms in an emergency four times as much for the accreditation at European level that the National Accreditation Board can now perform at home. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you come to your senses, do not do such damage, do not do such serious damage by law. There must be a part of European law that can remedy this. This will jump back to you either from the law or from the companies. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-30-176	Now I give you the floor... [[On Dr. Gergely Bárándy's mark:]] Then I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2015-06-30-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to say what effect this can have in practice in an area such as, say, the area of environmental remediation, as in the case of Scented Road and other examples, it has now come to light in weeks and months. How does such a remedial process take place, when I do so, with EU money we want to make an environmental remediation? It is clear that, when public procurement is launched, it is a condition that an accredited body carrying out sampling, removal or disposal of waste, which has accreditation approved by the European Accreditation Body, should not be subject to public procurement or registration, since remediation from European Union sources will be carried out. So these processes can already be blocked here, and there are two options for Hungarian businesses if they want to continue to participate in such remedial tasks. Obviously, there are multinational companies, waste management companies and other remedial firms in Hungary that have already been accredited with a foreign organisation, and since we are within the European Union, the accreditation of any organisation that is a member of the European Accreditation Body is also required by the Hungarian authorities. Therefore, a foreign accreditation company will authenticate Hungarian businesses, in which case there will be a loss of market before Hungarian accreditation, because by the time the government-led Hungarian accreditation body is established which could carry out this certification, it will no longer be able to authenticate who, because the market must go on and work must go on and cannot stop, so the companies will probably be accredited to companies from either Slovakia or other neighbouring countries, as has already been said here by Congressman Józsa. So that's the danger. The second is that smaller businesses who do not do so are excluded from the possibility of these proposals or these public procurements and cannot obtain these works and these resources. None of these visions are positive for them, so in these ten seconds, we would ask the Government once again to reconsider this proposal, and since it is an individual motion from its representatives, the Member should be able to withdraw and rethink this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-178	Congressman Gergely Bárándy came forward after all. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-30-179	Thank you very much. In short, I would just like to say two points on the side of legislation, which I explained at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. First of all, I would remind you that the Constitutional Court did not say and draw attention to the fact that it was not fortunate, and in many cases it was not fundamental, and not constitutional, if it was tabled by its representatives in the form of a separate motion concerning a wide range of legal entities, as my fellow Members have said, to avoid the debate. [[17.10]] However, I find it particularly outrageous that, for a rabbit tail text, a proposal for an amendment which is more than several times the scope of the text is then tabled, which virtually avoids Parliament's debate. There may be two problems in this regard: either at the beginning they had no idea how they wanted to transform it, this is also bad, but even worse, if they knew, they just wanted to avoid the substantive debate in Parliament. This proposal is therefore not only not eligible from a substantive point of view, but also has legislative problems that in itself do not allow us to support it. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-30-180	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-30-181	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your opinions, your criticisms, even though, of course, we do not agree with them and we do not share the concerns. With regard to this proposal to transform the national accreditation system, allow me now, as a rapporteur, to summarise what amendments have been proposed and what the national position is. The bill was necessary because a number of complaints and complaints about the operation of the Accreditation Board were received from the entrepreneurial sphere by considering the procedures to be too slow and expensive. Before presenting the summary proposal, which is supported by the authors, let me note, however, that, on the basis of the Commission report, the proposal complies with the House Rule 44 of the Decision. Paragraph 1 of the Act, thus complying with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system, complies with international and European Union law and complies with the professional requirements of the legislation; we can therefore rest assured of this. The bill was originally tabled by my fellow Member, Erik Bánki, and this was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs T/5142/3. T/5142/6. His amendment added further important sections to the bill. The proposal, in my view, is an important, bureaucratic reduction step that ensures that the eradication of the National Accreditation Board can take place in a predictable environment and in a procedural order; this may be an answer to doubts. To this end, the summary motion sets out the rules of procedure and deadlines for ensuring faster and continuous accreditation. Technically, the summary proposal will do so by further clarifying the amendments tabled by Erik Bánki and the Economic Committee, amending the delegation clause and the legislative harmonisation clause and adapting the entry into force provision. It defines accreditation and conformity assessment in the content of the proposal, defines precisely the tasks of the accreditation body, describes the steps of the accreditation procedure and sets out its principles, of which I would highlight impartiality and the principle of a quick, simple procedure. These were the principles which, unfortunately, have not been implemented in the past, in the opinion of many, and that is why the system of accreditation needs to be changed. The proposal also details the detailed rules for the supervision of the accredited organisation and the natural person, the rules for the recognition of foreign accredited status and the register of accredited and natural persons. The amending proposal states that the bill will enter into force on the day following its publication, with the exception of a few provisions where the transition should be ensured. At this point, I would like to point out that the continuity of accreditation will not be compromised, as on the basis of the summarised proposal, it will appear in the law that the new accreditation body will take over the activities of the Accreditation Board from 1 January 2016. The summary proposal also carries out tasks related to EU harmonisation. In conclusion, let me say that the crucial part of the proposed amendments also settles the issue of procedural continuity. Thanks to the bill, accreditation procedures in Hungary will be significantly cheaper and faster, as Mr State Secretary said. Administrative service charges will be cancelled in a large part of the cases, for example, the scope of administrative service charges linked to the change notification will be significantly reduced, which will be abolished. This is because, for example, under the current legislation, administrative service charges and serious tens of thousands have been paid even if there has been a change in the staff of an accredited organisation. The annual review fee will also be abolished, which cost the companies tens of thousands of forints and was also a meaningless burden. The procedural time will be several months, even six months shorter than before. So far, the practice has endangered the functioning and international competitiveness of many Hungarian companies, because their accreditation has been compromised and their position on the international market has also been shaken. One of the largest laboratories for international accreditation - and here I am responding to István Józsa; perhaps this slow construction is good for him that we do not have [[Dr. István Józsa: The other way around!]] - the national accreditation of the certification body has surprisingly not been completed since December 2013, because, in the current legal regulatory conditions and due to the operational inefficiencies of the current Accreditation Board, its accreditation has not yet been completed. It is clear that intolerable conditions have developed in this area, which, in order to improve the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and to meet the expectations of Hungarian entrepreneurs, need to be modified and improved. In view of the above, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-182	Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Next up is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/5033 submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-06-30-183	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. T/5033 has been negotiated pursuant to §8 of the Act. XXXVI of 2012 on the Parliament The Committee presented a bill amending the law and a draft amendment and a summary report summing up 32 yes, 3 no and 1 abstentions. The summarised amendment merely contains a single point motion from the Judicial Committee. The aim of the amendment is to delete the proposal for an unnecessary reduction of the strict rules of conflict of interest for Members of Parliament, so that Parliamentary MEPs can no longer be a member of the regional development council or a member of the regional development council. I ask your support for this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-184	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, I give the floor to János Fuzik, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Before I give you the floor, I would like to remind you that there is a total of 10 minutes available for all the closings at the end. You have the floor.
u2015-06-30-185	Thank you for the floor. Vážen. Pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás vo svojom slovenskom materinskom jazyku v mene parlamentného V.boru pre národnosti v Maåarsku a ku koncu dlhého dňa prájem všetkåm nám úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my mother tongue, in my Slovak mother tongue, I welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, and I wish us all a successful meeting on the way to the end of our long day. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary as the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. T/5033. The author of the Commission's own motion submitted by Mr Salacz was pleased to note that, as we have heard from MEP László Salacz, the Legislative Committee has made its decision on the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with nearly 90% support. [[17.20]] But the whole story didn't start to sound so promising to us ethnic advocates. As indicated by the date of the Act under discussion, the legislation for the reform of the Parliament was born in 2012, but the provisions on the remuneration of Members of Parliament, the conditions for the operation of the political groups, entered into force only on 6 May 2014 with the establishment of a new Parliament with reduced numbers. By then, it was already certain that Hungarian nationalities would not be elected by themselves, but would only be spokespersons in the House of the country. One of the important objectives of the new Act on Parliament was to create a full-time representativeship, to allow Members of Parliament, except for a few exceptions, to devote their time to legislative work in particular. To this end, they are also subject to strict conflict of interest rules. With the status of the full-time advocate, this effort has been less successful, although the conflict of interest rules may be even stricter in our case. During our work, we had to realize very quickly that we were completely unduly disadvantaged. According to the legislation still in force today, for example, the minority advocate and his colleagues do not have the right to use office in the Parliament Office House. The flexibility of the Office of Parliament has lifted this absurd conflict, but it has no longer been able to provide us with cover for the expenditure related to the operation of the offices, because Chapter 38 of the Parliament Act guarantees this to the political groups and independent Members, which does not, however, apply to ethnic advocates. The same is the case with the framework for ensuring the expenditure associated with the activities of representatives, to which national minority advocates are not entitled, even though their constituency is the whole country, representing their ethnic communities in their mother countries and at a wider international level. We have already done useful diplomatic service to Hungary or Parliament more than once in our first year, even within the framework of the Interparlamental Union. For example, I am discussing this issue tomorrow in the Bratislava Parliament in Slovakia. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities discussed a draft legislative amendment proposal at its meeting on 12 November 2014 to eliminate discrimination against advocates, which, as a so-called short version, would have extended the provisions of Chapter 38 of the National Assembly Act to independent representatives. Not quite a month later, on 9 December, the Judicial Committee presented its legislative amendment proposal, which, by leaving the funds thus far, sought to make the arrangements for the allowances of Members of Parliament, political groups and minority advocates more reasonable. Our original proposal could not be included in this, the spokespersons were also excluded from the preliminary discussion, which I also resented at the House Committee meeting. At the same time, we have been confirmed that our needs are well-founded and the issue needs to be resolved in the spring. The final vote on the bill-modifying proposal of the Judicial Committee was adjourned at the Parliament meeting on 16 December. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has incorporated the backbone of this proposal into its so-called long version, and has discussed both - short and long - for the first time at its meeting on 8 April. Our Commission presented its short legislative proposal for the first time on 20 May, and withdrew it after further discussions and reflections, and re-submitted the longer version on 2 June. It lies now T/5033. XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. as a bill tabled before this House to amend the law. Life has led to the fact that this bill has actually been shaped by the general debate of two plenary sessions. In the wake of the press and public sentiments in December, the neurological point is that the fuel card of the Members and Spokespersons can also be used as a freeway sticker. In the general debate on our Commission's motion on 10 June, most of the criticisms were proposed by our bill 2. Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Regional Development Council, which states that the Member may hold a membership mandate, a presidency and a vice-chairman's office. To leave this, two Members of Parliament, György Balla and Előd Novák, tabled an amendment of the same content. Our Commission supported this as a rapporteur, as did the Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee with the same content, closing a detailed debate. This was accepted by the Legislative Committee without a vote, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, After what has been said, I trust that the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, which serves the interests of nationality advocates, Members of Parliament and political groups as well as the dignity of the Parliament, will be accepted in our opinion by the House with the support required by the fundamental laws. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-30-186	Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to comment on the debate. The designated Judicial Committee did not set up a rapporteur, so now it is up to the representatives to speak. I give the floor first to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-06-30-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat the arguments that I have made in the general debate, but those arguments will continue to be maintained. If you think that's what your voters expect from you, well, your soul is on it, and they'll deal with it. However, I would also like to emphasise at this stage of the debate that we have supported and supported and tabled amendments to the provisions on spokespersons - I am truly sorry that Parliament has not supported this. This was basically about the adoption of the content of the so-called short version in the Parliament, as the advocate said, the version which, by the way, does not put the parliamentary parties in a better position financially, does not put individual Members in a more favourable and better position from a material point of view, but specifically and exclusively concerns the spokespersons, and the otherwise legitimate points made by the spokesperson fills or corrects those shortcomings in the parliamentary law. I am truly sorry that the House did not have the wisdom to present, at the moment, a more favourable regulatory regime for parties and Members, but it remains that the advocates receive the benefits which, by the way, if we consider it so, they also deserve from a moral point of view if Members receive the same benefits. On the subject of the Commission debate - because I believe that this is what we should focus on in this debate, at least in accordance with the Rules of the House - there is an amendment tabled by the pro-government representatives, which indeed excludes membership or membership of regional development councils, presidency and vice-presidentship in the case of Members of Parliament. [[17 .30]] Life can produce very strange situations, so it is one of these, namely that the amendment is supported by all political parties, and we also support it, and yet there is a serious debate in the committee meeting on this, in this context, and I would like to highlight the essential points of these at the moment. The problem is that, of course, we are in favour of maintaining this conflict of interest as is currently the case under the laws in force. However, it must also be seen that Fidesz has once again succeeded in circumventing the legislative environment and the framework provided by the legislation, since János Lázár was not long before this decision was taken by the committee, as well as the ministerial commissioners appointed to coordinate regional development councils, and these ministerial Commissioners, with an interesting exception, became parliamentary representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, This is what is known as the illegal circumventing of existing legislation by the government. He is deceiving it because, on the one hand, János Lázár said that this would not amount to extra money for the Members concerned, and then, one or two weeks later, he amended this regulation and, on the other hand, laid down a Deputy State Secretary's salary for the appointed Members. Life may be able to produce such a strange thing that it will not result in a real increase in income in the case of certain Members, because let us say, who is the notary of the Parliament, as there is one appointed - this is also interesting how the Parliament can be an official, and in the meantime perform ministerial commissioner's duties - in any case, this Member may earn 10-20 thousand forints less. But the majority of Members, who, let's say, does not hold a parliamentary position and does not fulfil, let's say, a committee's presidency or vice-presidentship, are actually raising the salary of this Member by more than HUF 200 thousand. So the fact that they can provide a counter-example does not mean that the system alone does not provide Members with a higher salary. At the same time, I think that, since we did not just come off the wallguard, we know precisely that the primary aspect of these Members is probably not whether they are still earning a few more forints or not, but that they will be the decisive figures of these regional development councils in terms of political influence. They will be the ones who will take the Minister's instructions to him, who will be tied directly to the Minister, and practically practically certain that the story will look like they will give the President of the Development Council the opportunity to decide what and how to decide. We know this practice, this practice of Fidesz, and we know exactly how this is going to happen, and we know precisely that this is the essence of it, and it is not whether the Member makes more money or not. Although I should note that, under today's circumstances, creating another position where Members of Parliament can get an additional contribution again, it is, of course, only the pro-government, the Fidesz Members, that is not right. In other words, we support this proposal, but I would add that, by the way, you have played it a long time ago, and you are only willing to include it in the parliamentary law or to exclude it from your amendment proposal, because otherwise, a brilliant idea has come about so that you can solve it differently and achieve a goal without creating a major social scandal. Nevertheless, this plan and this method are exactly the same as if they had left it in the law and made it possible to match the two positions. Finally, I would like to mention that I am pleased that my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, was not here in the previous debate, and I quoted quite a lot from him, because his opinion on the amendment was radically contrary to what his party now represents a few months ago. Obviously, I don't have to quote these literal quotes again, but Mr. President Novak obviously knows his own words, so I don't want to do any more advertising than he has to. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] But one thing is certain, for example, that it would be good for Congressman Novak to tell us how he can reconcile his earlier words with the old ones and how he will be able to give his support to this proposal, which lies before us. I would also like to mention, before anyone tries to get out of the better political group in this way when explaining the contradiction, that Mr Novak said not only on this amending proposal that it is not good, but also on many other things that this proposal makes possible. So his criticism did not remain with this amending proposal. So I look forward to Mr Novak's opinion on this bill. We will not be able to support it for the reasons we have been told. We are voting in favour of the amendments because it makes a bad one less bad, but once again, I consider it a despicable move that the government side has played this card. Thank you very much. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-188	I now give the floor to Mr. President Novak.
u2015-06-30-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Gergely Bárándy's words may seem somewhat provocative [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: They were!]] Or I could put it as an invitation waltz. I was very pleased that you quoted me last time for such a long time, not for vanity reasons, but because you said my thoughts, which I fully agree with today, but which I did not say in the debate for various reasons. First of all, because there are no outrageous proposals in this proposal that have been included in the previous one and which I have rightly criticised, and it does not seem to be ineffective, since the two most outrageous things are not included in this proposal. One of the things that is widely known was the free use of motorways for Members; but the other is not in this proposal now, and this, which was not so well-known at the time, but I did make it a subject of criticism in this last night's debate, as the only protesting speaker - because at that time the representatives of the MSZP did not raise a single word against the proposal in a truly insane proposal compared to this one, so let us add. So the other thing that was so outrageous was the guarantee of free parking for Members across the country. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That was a good suggestion!]] This is also not included in this proposal, whereas it was included in the text of the previous original proposal that mobile phones are practically free to pay for parking. I am therefore saying that this proposal and the previous sky and earth, but there is no doubt that there can be an objection in the present, and that if my previous speech and my words were to be taken out, there could indeed still be provisions that have not been opened, which I have made subject to the provision currently in force, not in this bill, but in the provision currently in force. In that sense, it might be possible to submit another single motion either to you or to anyone. I did what no one here did when I said those reviews. Therefore, I think it is pointless to ask now that I do not repeat them, but I do hold my opinion to them. In keeping with the house rules, however, I can now comment on what lies before us, which lies before us as an amendment to this bill. I can say that I am very proud that an amendment has been accepted, not only by the committee responsible, but also by György Balla himself, who formally submitted it before me, but in fact along with my proposal, because Jobbik has already indicated to Fidesz in advance that we cannot accept this provision. Fidesz seems to care about what Jobbik can't accept in such a delicate area, and that's why I'm glad it's part of 2nd. My proposal to delete §2 has been taken into consideration. In this they would have opened or opened another loophole of the political stockpiling - perhaps now we can talk slowly in the past time - by giving a ministerial mandate in regional development councils similar to those of the ministerial commissioners. This time, for example, there could be a ministerial representation of the honatas in the regional development councils. This is unacceptable, I have written in the official statement of reasons, but it is true that it is unacceptable to circumvent this proposal, even though it seems that it is not available in the future, but they can carry out the same tasks with another title, such as the Minister's Commissioner. And, moreover, this was presented at the same time by János Lázár; it is such an open, cynical circumvention, a kind of message for us Members, that whatever law we have here, he has the scope for that as a minister, in principle only as a representative of executive power, but it seems that he is a kind of more important decision-maker than we are, to ensure the same function as the same grant as the minister. [[17.40]] Why would he do that? Because of the fact that most of the opportunities, the most common forms of political job accumulation, the legal forms of political crime - usually manifested by the fact that a Member of Parliament is mayor at the same time - have succeeded in putting an end to Jobbik's pressure, and thanks to the fact that we have set a good example in the past few years, but there are still opportunities that Jobbik cannot accept; we have already had legislative proposals in this regard, which have unfortunately been voted down by Fidesz, and this is that the commissioners of government, prime minister, prime minister or prime minister, or commissioner, perhaps most of them, cannot serve as Members of Parliament. Because we seriously believe that a Member of Parliament should perform his duties with honor, that is a full-time job, besides which there can be no other job, not only a side job, but also a small mandate, but also a real lack of social tension that a Member of Parliament does not live up to the salary of his Members of Parliament, but also, let us say, hires several hundred thousand forints of ministerial commissioner's allowances, as we can see for example. There are no doubt examples that a ministerial commissioner uses it as a title, say, the Commissioner for Road Affairs and I do not yet know what titles, but unfortunately many also make use of the benefits that come with these posts. That is why we would like to close the rest of the political stockpiling, some of the existing loopholes, as we have been able to do in previous years in the most common cases. I dare say that this is the success of Jobbik, because not only when we were the first to submit this proposal, it was swept off and then only Fidesz presented this as its own, so to speak; we can see many examples of this. But also because we have not only suggested this, but we have set a good example, like immunity, and I could give you a few more examples of how Jobbik can make success out of opposition with a good example. Because we were the only party in the previous term, for us in our first term, but we have already laid down the statute that, if we become parliamentary representatives, we will not be mayors or municipal representatives. Every other party, even the LMP and the MSZP, had a parliamentary representative in the previous term who got in here, and later became mayor, but did not give up his parliamentary mandate in Hungary, and we do not believe that this is acceptable. Of course, this was the most common in Fidesz circles because of political power over the last four years, but earlier the MSZP did not change that when it was on the government. Therefore, I think that it is uncredited if the MSZP now argues that the job accumulation of politicians should be put to an end, because they would have given it a peak in the previous cycle, too, if they had not failed so badly because of their unveiling in Balatoneséd and many more, the election would not have failed so badly throughout the country, including the municipal elections. Therefore, I think these kinds of criticisms are credential, while Jobbik is absolutely credible, because we, by leading by example, have already banned in our statutes what, believe me - I know you are now hurting a lot of interests, so often you are outraged by personal attacks, but believe me - it was not easy for us either; obviously it was not easy for anyone to make any self-limitation, but yet we were able to do what you seem to be unable to do. To this day, they are unable to digest what the leadership of Fidesz has pushed down the throats of the mameluk, because they have seen that this strategic step must be taken, or else the entire government will fail. That is why I trust that sooner or later they will eventually digest it, accept that they are now only Members of Parliament, and rejoice until they are still Members of Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-190	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2015-06-30-191	Thank you, Mr President, very briefly. It seems that my fellow Member Novak does not remember his own speech, which he did earlier, because he did not only object to this, but also - I will say to you - you have objected to the larger apartment, the re-allocation of the group frame, that it can be carried over to the next term; this is all left in the law, Congressman! Read his previous statement, and he made a serious criticism of these. It's interesting that you want to vote now. Secondly, honourable Member, read the minutes of the Justice Committee. I am not sure whether it was suggested by Mr Apáti or by Mr Savay in the colour of Jobbik, but one of them, so it was a better proposal. I'm glad you're out of the proposal. Thank you. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-192	I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2015-06-30-193	Mr Bárándy, I will take all my earlier words, let alone accept what was said at the time, but I also agree with the criticisms that may even be submitted. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] I think this was a reality now, and I am very pleased that at least one of my proposals has been adopted. You're wrong that I'm about to vote for it. I personally will not vote in favour of this law, because I still do not agree with it, but I am sure that heaven and earth is the previous proposal, and it is precisely because of Jobbik [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: 90 percent the same!]] because we were the only one whose faction was critical of the earlier, truly instigating, truly widespread social outrage. It may indeed be that my fellow Member, István Apáti - because it was not István Szávay - had such an unfortunate proposal, which he has regretted and withdrawn since then, which was put forward orally at the committee meeting, but that was not the official position of Jobbik, and now it is not his position either. The point is, however, that the current bill has changed to our proposal, both now and before, and we are proud to have been able to set a good example. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-194	Dear Parliament, If there is no further intention of commenting, the debate is closed. [[Intercoms in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]] The debate is closed, honourable Members, if possible, and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] One minute 44 seconds is available to János Fuzik's ethnic advocate.
u2015-06-30-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the rapporteur for this legislative amendment, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to thank all Members who, during the general debate, spoke constructively to our amendment proposal, as well as the Justice and Legislative Committee for their work in this area. I really trust - as I said during the general debate, and our committee meant this - that with this legislative amendment proposal we will really serve the Hungarian Parliament with regard to the functioning of political groups, Members and, of course, ethnic advocates. Special thanks for the fact that, in fact, in the civilized debate, the Members of Parliament considered the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the spokespersons that formed it to be partners in lawmaking. We are confident that the proposal will also be adopted. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-30-196	Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions will be taken at a later date. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the Establishment and Statute of the European Public Law Organisation until its closure. The submission is T/5290. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-30-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Public Law Centre was established in 1995 and, in 2007, it continued its work in 1995 under the name of the European Public Law Organisation, which became an international organisation with an international legal entity for contracting in the sense of international law. The European Public Rights Organisation, which is the successor of the Centre, aims to develop and disseminate knowledge and legal knowledge of national legal systems, comparative and European public law, human rights, environmental law and democratic institutions. In this context, it organises training programmes, studies, consultative activities and participates in the work of international institutions of a similar nature and relevance. In addition, it helps democratic transformation in third world countries and developing democracies, helping to build and create a public-law system. During the 17-year operation of the Greek initiative, the organisation has carried out analytical and legal comparative work on a number of topics in the fields of institutional development, the restructuring of education and environmental regulation, both in the Mediterranean countries and in many countries of the Balkans, Africa and Asia. [[17.50]] The Statute of the Organisation has already been ratified by ten countries, including Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Romania, Serbia, Moldova, Armenia, Georgia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. Outside the States, the Council of Europe and the Commission of the European Union are members of the Management Board. In addition to the representatives of the participating countries and international organisations, numerous institutions and public bodies, such as universities, courts and other authorities, ministries, anti-corruption institutions, are involved in the operation of the organisation. The aim of the organisation is to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of public law in a broad sense, including national, comparative and European law, human rights, environmental law and the promotion of European values through public law around the world. To this end, the organisation organises and supports scientific, research, education, education, institution building and other activities and helps democratic institutions operating in Europe and around the world. The organisation shall promote cooperation with other international institutions, organisations and bodies, in particular organisations operating within the United Nations system. The organisation may establish contacts with other institutions and programmes, including universities, research centres, ministries, municipalities, parliaments, courts. It therefore further promotes interinstitutional and international cooperation. It should be pointed out that Hungary does not have a financial obligation to the organisation with the accession, because such an obligation would arise only by signing a separate participation agreement, which Hungary does not intend to sign yet. This also means that until then, our country will not have the right to vote in the institutions of the organisation and will only attend meetings and the general meeting as observers. However, this observer status is an excellent opportunity for Hungary to examine whether it will be worthwhile to undertake by concluding a participation agreement to provide financial support for the organization's work in order to play a more serious role in it. The legal ratification of accession is necessary on the basis of the existing international contract rules because the Convention to be adopted by accession is, in substance, subject to legislation. The Convention to be published sets out the legal status of the organisation, the organisation has full international legal personality and the legal capacity necessary for the exercise of its tasks and the fulfilment of its objectives. It shall develop its activities, management and staff without political considerations. The organisation also enjoys diplomatic immunity similar to that of the United Nations. The bill also provides for the basic internal operating rules of the organisation. Dear House, Please make T/5290. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-198	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First up is the lead speakerial round. I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-30-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is part of a series of decisions of a technical nature with which international conventions are cited. Mr Secretary of State said very in detail that the European Public Law Organization or EPLO has a short cut - what is its story and what is its purpose. I would stress that this is a legal, legal organisation, and the primary objective is to look at the right, different national rights, to look at the institutions of democracy, and to compare laws, which may not need to be told by lawyers how important this is in international law. What I would probably add is that there are 14 countries now, and the former ones or those who have already ratified them, besides France, Estonia, Azerbaijan and Ukraine have joined this initiative, this organisation, but they have not yet ratified it. I have to say, and I would stress once again that this does not cost money at the moment, but the observer status opens up those rights and opportunities to Hungary to participate in this important organization and monitors its work. The Fidesz fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-200	I now give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-30-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Public Law Organisation is an international intergovernmental organisation set up in 2007 for the Greek initiative to create and disseminate knowledge in the field of public law in a broad sense. I would not say in detail here, Mr Répássy, State Secretary, has already presented and aims to promote European values through public law around the world. To this end, the organisation organises and supports scientific, research, education, education, institution building and other activities and assists democratic institutions operating in Europe and around the world. The legal predecessor of the organisation was the European Public Law Centre established in 1995 under the law of the Hellenic Republic. The Convention on the Establishment and Constitution was signed in 2004 and entered into force in 2007, and has been ratified by ten countries: Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Serbia, Moldova, Armenia, Georgia, Romania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. It is based in Athens, but has offices in many parts of the world, such as Greece, Romania and Moldova, while in Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ukraine and Slovakia, as well as in Iran, Mexico, Nicaragua, and has a programme-based office in Turkey, Serbia and Armenia. In order to fulfil their objectives and to carry out their activities, the organisation shall have all the full powers of any organisation having international legal personality. Within the territory of the Member States, the European Organisation for Public Law, its officials and staff shall enjoy the privileges and immunities provided for in the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations. Hungary does not have an obligation to support by accession to the Convention, since it will only enter into force by concluding a separate participation agreement, but will not have the right to vote, but may participate as an observer in the meetings and the general meeting. The MSZP will support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-30-202	I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-30-203	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Public Law Organisation (ECO) was set up by the Greek initiative EPSO, an international intergovernmental organisation whose aim has already been heard by several speakers to develop and disseminate public knowledge, to develop these in the fields of international and European public law, human rights, the environment and democratic institutions. The Convention on the Statute and the Establishment of the EPSO has been ratified by ten countries to this day, mainly in the countries of Southern Europe and Eastern Europe, as has already been said. EPSO carries out research related to European public development, supports research of this type, consults, compares laws, proposes and participates in international cooperation related to the activity. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Its activities focus on Mediterranean countries, the Balkans, the Middle East, Central and South Asia, Africa, Latin America and developing small island countries. [[18.00]] The EPSO Board is currently composed of 14 countries, including the European Commission, the Council of Europe, several national authorities and 64 universities and institutions. The accession of our country to the Convention does not give rise to an obligation to grant aid, since the provisions of the Convention enter into force only after a separate participation agreement has been concluded. Obviously, we will also have the right to vote, but as observers we can attend EPLO meetings and assemblies. The Convention is set out in Act L of 2005 on the Procedure for International Contracts. Paragraph (a) of the Act constitutes an international contract, so the convention is governed by Nstv. The requirements of this Regulation shall be those laid down in this Regulation. That's Nstv. 7. In view of paragraph 6 and point (b) of paragraph 3 of Article 1 of the Treaty, recognition of the mandatory scope of an international treaty may take place if, in the light of the text of the contract, the Hungarian Parliament authorises it to do so. Please support T/5290 on the publication of the Convention on the Establishment and Statute of the European Public Law Organisation. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-30-204	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-30-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It's not the most serious item on the agenda that lies before us. Many of the previous speakers have said their essence about joining an international organisation. I don't see it. I mean, I don't see it. I don't see it. I couldn't find any studies that would have affected the subject at its depths, and they would have been available from this organization. But of course, this may just mean that we couldn't dig deep enough in the big bill dump. Nevertheless, we support the proposal, although we look forward to concrete results on what can be achieved from our membership in the organisation. To be fair, and this is an important point, not membership, in terms of our obligation to provide support, so our obligation to pay doesn't come from this, thank God, we could say. After all, when I read the charter and it prevented me from reading the justification, I thought about how much it would cost. We know that there are very serious membership fees in such international organisations, and I would not now give examples of how much to pay in which organization. But with Hungary entering an observer status, the government is asking for support from the Parliament, and I do not think that if we are there, we will not lose if we can at least participate as observers in the operation of this organization. Although I would add that the current Greek bankruptcy is near or perhaps technically already in a state of bankruptcy, it is interesting to say, with a centre in Athens, how this organization can operate. It is even better that Hungary will not be a member, but will be a member of this organisation in observer status, because it will be the successor to the former European Public Rights Centre, which was established here in 1995. Article 21 provides that the Parties are obliged to accept the obligations to support the organisation in accordance with their participation agreement or to take over the rights, obligations, discounts, assets and interests of the predecessor on the one hand. So I have to say that this seems to be an appropriate guarantee that we are only attending as observers for the time being. Although I know that a full membership alone would not mean that if, say, the predecessor organization had some kind of debt or circumstances that would be difficult to give our name to, I mean financially, I think, however, given the Greek states, if we had to vote for a full membership, I would suggest a more thorough screening of this predecessor organisation. Because the Greeks have often found that certain data have not been transmitted properly, whether to Brussels or to the international community. But in order not to take too long to say so, in this form we can support the proposal, and we look forward to the government in the future to prove the specific benefits of our observer membership. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-30-206	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. Act 1 and the joint debate on the amendment of certain other laws in an exceptional procedure. The submission was made in T/5404. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Mr Répássy, Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the bill. You have a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-06-30-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Four years ago, the government presented a draft Act on the right of information self-determination to Parliament. The purpose of the legislation at that time was to come from three sources. First of all, to establish the substantive, institutional and organisational guarantees of the rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law, which was recently adopted, i.e. the right to the protection of personal data and to the recognition and dissemination of data of general interest. Secondly, it was an important objective to comply with EU legal requirements and to keep up-to-date monitoring of the development of EU law. Thirdly, the legislative proposal at that time served to address the problems and shortcomings encountered in the case-law by combining the rules previously laid down in several laws, adapting them to the changed living conditions and the legal environment. Four years later, we can conclude that the law has stood the test of time in respect of these fundamental efforts. In the area of the processing of personal data, Hungarian legislation continues to provide a high level of protection for data subjects. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information established by fundamental regulation ensures this protection consistently and at a high level in practice. Similarly, the courts act to respect and enforce fundamental rights in matters concerning personal data or data of general interest. As far as the regulation is concerned, it may be permissible to point out that in 2012 the Venice Commission concluded in its comprehensive opinion on the law that the law is in line with both European and international data protection standards in its entirety during a tense period of debate on the renewal of the Hungarian legal system, without any misunderstandings or misinterpretation. Ladies and Gentlemen, After these introductory words, please allow me to look into the reasons for the current bill before you, why it is necessary to discuss it in this session by the Parliament. The time has not yet come for a comprehensive review of the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. On the one hand, because the law has proved to be a solid and well-functioning element of the Hungarian legal system, on the other hand, as this comprehensive overview and amendment is expected to be inevitable in the foreseeable future by developments in EU law. In all these circumstances, it is also an obligation to prepare legislation, especially the judicial wallet, to monitor the latest developments in law development and changes in living conditions, as well as the experience of law enforcement. [[18.10]] The bill is presented on the basis of five different regulatory objectives and reasons. First, legislation must comply with the obligations imposed on it by the Constitutional Court's decisions to remove the content of the provisions of the Fundamental Law and to impose legislative requirements on it. Secondly, innovative solutions that guarantee the protection of data subjects' rights to a greater extent than the legislation in force should be applied to the protection of personal data. Third, it is appropriate to provide organisations managing personal data with the possibility to conduct the processing operations required by advanced IT solutions and internationalized legal relationships while ensuring full protection of personal data. Fourthly, the experience gained by the Data Protection Authority in its three and a half years of operation, which justifies a slight modification of the legal requirements, is associated with all of this. Finally, the bill takes into account the questions raised in the case-law regarding access to data of general interest, which support the need for more detailed regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I mentioned the need to comply with the Constitutional Court decision. The Constitutional Court's decision of February this year imposed on Parliament the obligation to ensure, in the case of the classification of public data in the public interest or in the public interest, that the fundamental right to access data of general interest can be enforced directly by means of a procedure for reviewing the content of the data classification. The legislation required by the Constitutional Court must guarantee that the freedom to know and discuss public affairs cannot be hindered by abusive qualifications, but at the same time that fundamental interests protected by certification, such as the constitutional order of Hungary, external and internal security, are not compromised. In order to develop an appropriate regulatory model, the Ministry of Justice has consulted the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. As a result of these consultations, the regulation to be established is based on the procedure already in force in the current law, the procedure for the supervision of secrets, the conditions and order of it, and it expands it to allow for a direct and independent review of the rating. This control function may be exercised by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information or by the courts empowered to review its decisions on the basis of the provisions in force, but only on its own initiative. The fundamental novelty of the bill is, therefore, that it complements the rules of the lawsuit for issuing public data. If the data seeker has not received access to a data of general interest because it is also classified data, the court shall initiate the procedure for the authority's oversight of the confidentiality in the case in which the data seek public interest information. The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority shall, in accordance with the draft law and subject to the outcome of its proceedings, call on the qualified person to change the classification level or period of validity of the classified information in accordance with the law or to terminate the qualification, if the qualification has proved to be lawful, to establish this fact. The weight of the issue and the speedy compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision justify the decision of the Parliament to adopt the new regulation in this session and to enter into force as soon as possible after the publication of the law. Dear Parliament, The proposal seeks to establish rules for the registration of data protection incidents in Hungarian law before they become an EU legal obligation to create new EU data protection requirements in the near future. These rules make it an obligation for the controller to register the occurrence of the unlawful processing or processing of personal data, of a data protection incident, whether the incident occurs on the basis of intentional or negligent conduct or external circumstances. The purpose of this register is to provide, on the one hand, information on the occurrence of incidents, their effects at the request of the controller, at the request of the data subject, and to enable the controller to monitor the activities of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority in relation to data protection incidents and, if necessary, to make recommendations to prevent further data protection incidents. Dear House, The bill also introduces the legal institution of the so-called compulsory organizational regulation, which has been successfully applied in several countries of the European Union. This legal instrument allows data controllers to transfer personal data abroad even if a sufficient level of protection of personal data cannot be established for the whole of a third country. Dear House, The purpose of the bill is also to address the need for changes resulting from the experience of law enforcement. Among these experiences, the Government attaches particular importance to the proposals put forward by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, in particular those aimed at promoting more effective protection of fundamental rights. Accordingly, the bill amends the rules of procedures of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information on several points in order to provide a wider margin of manoeuvre and a more differentiated toolbox for dealing with infringements. Among these amendments, it should be pointed out that in future the authority will be entitled to apply the consequences of the infringement and its behaviour in relation to the infringement, even more so. Thus, in the case of minor infringements, which have been corrected by the controller, the proposal allows the authority to determine only the fact of the infringement, but in the case of serious infringements, in the future the authority may impose a fine of up to HUF 20 million instead of a fine of up to HUF 10 million. Dear House, The experience of law enforcement arises not only on the part of the holders of the fundamental right but also on the side of their debtors and is also considered by the legislator. The public interest and the fundamental right to access and disseminate public data in the public interest are subject to public service obligations. One guarantee of freedom of information is the possibility of submitting a request for access to data of general interest. The legal provisions in force contain in detail the conditions for lodging and fulfilling this request. However, experience in the application of the law has shown that in some cases the provisions in force are not sufficiently flexible and thus impose additional burdens on the controller which may hinder the full fulfilment of both their basic tasks and the need to obtain information of general interest. Therefore, in certain cases of requests for data of general interest, which relate to data which are undoubtedly public data in the public interest or in the public interest and which are in the management of data controllers, the fulfilment of the claim goes beyond a simple operation, such as a copy of the data medium, the proposal contains requirements for such data. In addition, applications may be included in which the mere determination of whether the data required are available and whether they are publicly available in the public interest or in the public interest may require a substantial source of labour from the controller. This includes applications for which a large number of data media or databases are required to be reviewed and the requested data collected in order to properly fulfil them. In view of this, the proposal adds to the rules in force, on the one hand, to the extension of the deadline for the fulfilment of the request for data by 15 days and, on the other hand, to the conditions for prior reimbursement of the costs incurred by the controller in such cases. [[18.20]] In addition, the proposal allows the controller to be exempted from the obligation to request data within a period of one year from the same data seeker in order to prevent unnecessary additional burden on data controllers. The obligation under the law of the European Union to consult the Union institution concerned when a Member State receives a request for access to a document from an institution of the Union. The bill therefore creates detailed rules for the fulfilment of this obligation in the context of data requirements of general interest. Dear House, The amendment to the law on complaints and announcements of public interest harmonises, recasts and clarifies the arrangements for handling complaints and notifications made by non-identifiable persons. In order to ensure a legal balance between the amendment of the Copyright Act, the author's rights to the person and the public interest in the knowledge of a work of public interest, it lays down the procedural rules applicable to this special case. I would like to draw your attention here to the current law 27. Paragraph 2 (2) (h), according to which access to data of general interest may be restricted in the light of intellectual property rights. The amendment of the law on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts is of a legal nature and serves to transfer land organisation changes to the legal rules. Dear House, On the one hand, I would ask you to support the bill, and on the other hand, I would ask you to share with us your comments on the bill objectively during the debate, and then I would be happy to comment on the amendments, as I did during the committee meeting. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-208	Thank you, Secretary of State Répássy. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. For all of this, you have 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within a maximum time frame of eight minutes.
u2015-06-30-209	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on yesterday's House Rule 61. T/5404 was negotiated under an exceptional procedure pursuant to §2 of the Act. CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. A bill amending certain other laws was submitted by the Committee with a proposal for amendment and a summary report for 17 votes in favour and 6 non-votes. The Legislative Committee submitted its own proposal on a proposal from the President of the Data Protection Authority, which makes it clear that in the case of an anonymous request, the data provider is not obliged to comply with the request, but may decide to provide data. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the provision is thus perfectly in line with Article 4 of the Tromsø Convention. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, They have seven minutes to present the minority opinion. Congressmen Gergely Bárándy and Gábor Staudt share this among themselves. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-06-30-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is not by accident that you noted at the end of your speech that you wanted objective contributions. He was obviously referring to the Commission debate, and he said this on the basis of the experience of the Commission's debate, because Members of Parliament, who spoke from the opposition parties in the Commission debate, all said about their view that this was nothing more than an attempt to cover up public corruption, that they wanted Parliament to adopt a new instrument to cover up state corruption. Dear Secretary of State, In response to your comment and referring back to the committee meeting, I can say that when such a request is made, you probably feel that it is not the detailed rules described that are the most disturbing to man in such a proposal, but that, on the one hand - and this has also been said at the committee meeting - that there is once again a good chance that you would like to implement personalised legislation, at least in relation to certain provisions of the proposal, and on the other, that the motivation for the submission of this law is exactly what I just quoted, and that every political party from the opposition, who has spoken, has said. It was suggested in the debate that, if they had already missed the date and were therefore in constitutional failure, why this proposal had not been tabled much sooner or, if they were already late, why not present it at the next parliamentary session, why it should be accepted in an exceptional procedure within two days. Unless it is because of the fact that the opposition representatives have said roughly equally, because the Századvég Institute has just received a final court ruling that it must issue the documents for which they have received serious state millions, 10 to 100 million forints. They'll probably want to hold onto this, but we'll see what life brings, that they don't want to publish these documents. This will be a legal debate on whether the final judgment should be implemented even if the Parliament adopts such an amendment. Nevertheless, this motivation in the ranks of the opposition was quite receptive. The president of NAIH also identified problems in three points. The opposition parties also saw the problems in precisely these three points, even if the argument system deviated from the opinion of the president of NAIH in some respects. Finally, I would like to point out that the pro-government Members have treated this proposal as if it were a library loan and would like to receive a copy of the rented book. In other words, they were trying to argue that if someone is using a service, they should pay the compensation for the work. However, what was not taken into account in the Commission's debate is that it is not a kind of service, but a fundamental right and the enforceability of a fundamental right; therefore, the opposition considers that this proposal is not a fundamental principle, in other words: it is unconstitutional. Additional opinions will be presented by my fellow Member, Mr Staudt. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-30-212	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2015-06-30-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, there was a very heated debate before the Legislative Committee, and it also contained some legal arguments on which the answer was sometimes difficult on the part of the government - I'll tell you honestly - and some arguments have been made, going all the way to personalism, who is the lawyer, who is not a lawyer, why, what and how we think of the legal arguments on the pro-government and opposition side, which made the debate quite interesting. In my ordinary comment, I will address the details, but what must be said - what was also said in the debate - is that there are two things: public money and access to public data, on the one hand, and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2015/4, which has indeed established a default constitutional infringement, and that Parliament should have complied with this omission by 31 May 2015. We can see that Parliament has not done this in any way. In this section, it must be said that it is very strange that the law was not tabled by the honourable government in the context of a normal procedure, preparing for this decision to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. It would not have been a problem if this proposal had come into force on issues relating to the revision of the content of data ratings, which, by the way, was quite rightly formulated by the Constitutional Court. [[18.30]] If we were to argue about this and argue about it before 31 May, then the opposition could wholeheartedly support it, but it seems that in the interests of the Századvég, or in relation to the studies of the Századvég, the final decision of the court is greater than the decision of the Constitutional Court. What we see is that they can bring him in immediately. I think it was just a question, and what they were looking for when they prepared this proposal, what they could slap into so that it wouldn't get so messy and it wouldn't smell so bad. Therefore, two things have been pushed together, and it can be said that a decision by the Constitutional Court must be complied with. In the other case, however, these unacceptable provisions have been introduced. By the way, I look forward to receiving, in September, October, an interpellation or other written oral question, that we did not support this law, which laid down excellent provisions on classified information. But what we are talking about here is that I would like to create a further restriction on public studies, and on the grounds that data of public interest can be asked for abusively, they will increase their fee. I'll give you the rest in my regular comment. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-30-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-30-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I believe that this is an important piece of legislation that we have ahead of us. An important piece of legislation, because the area of law itself is important in Hungary, perhaps since 1990, and I think we are also talking about one of the most developed areas of legislation in terms of Hungary's leadership in data protection. The data protection rules in Hungary, as a whole, are very advanced, and accordingly it is important that if we touch such a rule system, we should always proceed with caution in its management. When there is a decision by the Constitutional Court and it obliges us to do something, this is a very good time to make minor amendments to this regulation, but the fact is that we are talking about legislation that is not too old, and therefore its experience does not justify drawing general conclusions from its application. I consider it an important and very good technical solution, as the Constitutional Court executes its decision in this way by the Parliament and, in the framework of a kind of review procedure, the ability to access classified information and to review whether the rating was appropriate, in a court procedure, it will allow the enforcer to apply the law at a later stage. This, I think, is an important change, because there has been a lot of criticism of the application of the law in this regard, and it can open certain gates and clarify the application of the law in all areas that are related to data in this respect, to the knowledge of data, and to the publicity of data. Obviously, the most important element of this package of laws and the main cause for debate, which my fellow Members have referred to earlier, is the regulation on reimbursement of expenses. The point is that if a person wishes to use certain data more widely, he must pay some kind of reimbursement. I would like to note that the fact that it is necessary to pay for some law or enforcement is not unique in Hungarian case law, because if a person wishes to go to a court in Hungary, it is not free to do so either, in the case of proceedings, or later, the unsuccessful party must pay the costs in proportion to the loss of litigation in the case of a civil case. Accordingly, it is very important that if the public administration is burdened in some form by an application that is submitted and represents a disproportionate burden for the public administration, we should consider the form in which this cost can be recovered. This is not about the fact that the government, the state, has money from somewhere, it is actually the money of Hungarian citizens, we have added up this money from our taxes, and this is what this procedure is going to take, i.e. using it, the public administration will otherwise pay the cost of this. That's one side of this thing. The other side, however, is that a request for data may be a serious burden for the functioning of public administrations, all public administrations, since it is about the performance of their basic tasks. Those who have been in contact with local governments and local government bodies know exactly what a data request is, when it relates to a large number of data, what a load is. I'm sure you've also met with the fact that there are notorious data seekers who actually require data that, based on their content, may not necessarily be data that can be made public or that there is not necessarily any such data in the data that they require. In this respect, we are also talking about data that are public data, which is therefore accessible data, but the amount of data is a serious problem for these bodies. In my constituency, Dunakeszin, there were quite a few examples of this, some of them, primarily individuals, who, without using these data for anything later, asked for data that could occupy more people's work in a particular organization for days. So what we're talking about here is not hypothetical things, it's not that these things don't happen, they're events that happen daily or quite often in public administration, administrative practice. It is clear that citizens must be forced to exercise all rights in accordance with their legitimate nature, and that is what this legislation is all about, and that is what this legislation is all about. It does not matter, therefore, that when there are two competing areas of law, on the one hand, the right to know data of general interest and, on the other hand, that these public administration bodies can carry out their core activities in the interest of citizens. Obviously, it is only a reasonable limit to this, and it is not by chance that there is still a need for a government decree, so there should also be regulation at the level of a regulation. Of course, along with this continuous control, because, as citizens who use data can enforce their rights, but they cannot abuse this enforcement, it is clear that public administration cannot abuse these rights from the administrative side. These are very important rules, and I think that this is a step forward in this area of law, because we are talking about a continuous and permanent problem. It is not, therefore, a question of limiting the ability to know certain studies, which are otherwise in the public interest, so it is in the public interest to know them or, where appropriate, the ability to know a court judgment - although I add that the judgment that has been handed down is different from that when we are now drawing up a law and then there are certain judgments, so there is a difference between them in this respect - it is not a question of limiting their ability to know them in some form, but of the fact that it is a matter of real disproportionate burden for the public administration. For example, a number of data must be collected because they are on various media, in different places, they must be given in some form in an orderly manner, obviously not required by the public administration, and so far it has not been required to create new data, for example, to detect statistics that are coming from the data, but otherwise are not available. But collecting and collecting data itself can also cause serious headaches, serious problems for the public administration and a serious strain on public authorities. I think that this is a reasonable need, given that, as I have said, in the case law, there is a need to reimburse the citizen for a fee or cost elsewhere in terms of enforcement. Therefore, this will in no way constitute a restriction in this regard. I would add that there is another very important provision in this legislation, this is the copyright provision, and here we are also talking about competing areas of law. Copyright issues, I think, have always been important in Hungary, and have been well managed by the legislator in general, the protection of this is based on very serious and well-made legislation on both criminal and civil law sides. [[18.40]] Accordingly, a loophole should be closed in this respect, because if, through public data requests, something can be done that would otherwise be prohibited by copyright rules, this would be a serious problem in how copyright should be enforced. These two areas of law should be coordinated in order to ensure that data of general interest are made public on one side and that copyright protection on the other side can be achieved. I think that in this draft legislation, which is now before us, there is a very good solution in this proposal. After all, this allows you to get to know these data for the data seeker, so you can read it yourself, you can look at the data, you can make notes about it, but at the same time it allows the protection of copyright to be fully enforced, i.e. a number of copies that would already violate the rules on copyright specifically, by avoiding these materials in a way that would involve copyright damage, will not be implemented. So I think that you are handling this issue well and correctly, making the data accessible, and also allowing you to protect the copyright holder. On the other hand, referring to the former rule, it also allows and restricts citizens to exercise this right legally by everyone who exercises their rights, or otherwise to require a quantity of data that is accordingly a problem in another area - which is also a civil right, so that the public administration can properly perform its activities and carry out its basic tasks and not endanger them - it requires reimbursement of the costs of the organisation that requires this type of data. I think that, accordingly, this amendment to the legislation is a roundly assembled legislative amendment. It is good that the thin jersey we are on in this regard, because we are indeed walking on a thin jersey, is managed accordingly by this legislation, and I think it is well managed by this legislation. I think that this can be supported by everyone. The Fidesz fraction will support this proposal accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-216	Thank you very much, Congressman Tuzson Bence. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2015-06-30-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, I'll start with a sentence that, in my view, this bill is nothing more than the law of mischief with data of public interest. From now on, however, ladies and gentlemen, as requested by the Secretary of State, I will be objective. I will be objective, but it will also become clear that it is unsustainable and, in my view, it is against the basic law that the bill is now before us. The Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information restricts fundamental rights. This is what we consider to be the 23rd draft. This would allow data controllers to carry out requests for information in the public interest subject to copyright protection, e.g. by allowing studies - see Századvég - to be viewed, i.e. without providing effective access. The bill also significantly broadens the possibility for data controllers to retain so-called pre-decision data to take decisions in their view. 17 of the proposal. Paragraph 4 of the Act allows the refusal to issue data for the basis of a future decision, which is considered to be a significant step backwards because the controller's public authority can at any time refer to the need to retain a data in order to make a decision in the future. The fundamental task of amending the Freedom of Information Act would have been that the Constitutional Court 4/2015. In accordance with its Resolution No 1 on State Encryption, i.e. an effective remedy against the classification of data of general interest. However, citizens still cannot directly request the court to review classified data. However, the most worrying restriction is contained in Article 5 of the bill. It is implemented by paragraphs 4 and 8 and 9 respectively. This is what my fellow Member Tuzson referred to and spoke about it for a relatively long time. These provisions would allow public interest data management bodies to pay data seekers for the labour costs associated with the fulfilment of the data request. This would be possible if the fulfilment of the data request involves a disproportionate use of the workforce needed to carry out the basic activity of the body managing the public interest data. Citizens are not aware, nor are they aware, of the salaries of employees of public-interest data management bodies, so that they cannot be aware of the labour costs of the bodies. The bill remains indebted to the definition of these concepts, just as no other legislative provision contains the necessary definitions. The proposed provisions empower the data controllers to require the data-claiming citizens to pay costs which cannot be calculated at the time of the request for data. The bill would give the controller the full discretion to determine the level of labour expenditure and to give the controller the right to decide what constitutes a disproportionate use of the data controller's workforce. For this reason, data controllers could require data applicants to pay any high amount of compensation, who would not have any means to verify whether the fulfilment of their request was indeed a disproportionate burden for the data controllers and actually incurred the costs indicated by the data controllers. A number of state institutions and companies providing outstanding salaries to their employees can also be found in public interest data management bodies. As a result of the amendment of the law, these data controllers, acting in an arbitrary manner, could charge millions of HUF to the data seekers who came to them. The Fundamental Law of Hungary VI. Article 2 (2) of the Treaty - and I refer to Mr Tuzson's speech here too - defines the recognition and dissemination of data of general interest as a fundamental right. According to Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law, a fundamental right - once again, I quote - is to the effect of another fundamental right or to the protection of a constitutional value, to the extent strictly necessary, in proportion to the objective pursued and in compliance with the essential content of the fundamental right. Where is this fundamental right, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State, to which you are restricting this? The protection of the source of labour of bodies managing public interest data is neither a fundamental right nor a constitutional value which would allow the restriction of access to data of general interest to be allowed. The proposed provisions would include legal concepts with uncertain content in the Freedom of Information Act, which would allow for arbitrary interpretation of the law. Therefore, the proposed limitation of the fundamental right to access public information does not comply with the proportionality requirement. I also note that, while we are at the practical level, honourable Members, that for 25 years all governments have been able to deal with this problem, all governments have been able to comply with public data management for 25 years, even those who have, where appropriate, raised really stupid questions or unnecessary questions. I think that if it's such a big problem, then it's a sign that you have so many corruption suspects that you simply can't handle public interest data claims. But perhaps this is not a constitutional problem of a kind or a constitutional value for which it would be permissible to limit fundamental rights, and certainly not something that would otherwise make it constitutional. Furthermore, the proposed provisions would give the controller the opportunity to create an insurmountable obstacle to the knowledge of data of public interest through the arbitrary application of restrictive provisions with indefinite content. [[18.50]] For this reason, the state is not serving its citizens by bringing the planned provisions into force, but is abusing its power. We believe that the government would do the right thing by increasing the so-called proactive freedom of information rather than reducing transparency, i.e. by publishing electronically the information on its operation without request. In many cases, we have pointed out foreign examples where this was simply achieved without any particular financial burden. This solution would not only improve the transparency of the state but also significantly reduce the number of data requests. Please allow a few more sentences about the history, although several references have been made here at the meeting. The bill is set out in point 3 of the Government's autumn 2015 session by submission in June and adoption in October. It is interesting in itself that, by 15 June, at the time of the submission of the legislative programme to Parliament, the national judicial portfolio has not yet assessed this product as a bill to be adopted in an exceptional procedure. There was a reason for the rush, and enough, the Constitutional Court also quoted this resolution several times - already 4/2015. It stated in its decision No.3 that the right to knowledge and dissemination of data of general interest should be prevented from being unduly restricted and thus unnecessary, that, in the event of a restriction of the disclosure of a data by classification, a meaningful control over the data classification should be provided which is capable of not only verifying the maintenance of the formal and procedural requirements of the rating, but also of reviewing the substance of the rating, its merits, the necessity and proportionality of the restriction on the public. As has been mentioned several times, this obligation should have been fulfilled by 31 May 2015. More than surprisingly, Honourable Secretary of State, László Trócsányi Minister of Justice, former Constitutional Judge, did not try to comply with this obligation by presenting himself to the Government and Parliament in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision. On the other hand, as regards the criticism of the content, returning to the decision, it is that the bill does not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. If the data controller refuses to fulfil the requirement for access to data of general interest because the data requested by the claimant is classified data, the request for data shall be lawfully refused under the rules in force. It follows from the decision of the Constitutional Court that it is necessary to examine in substance whether the data has been legally classified as a secret and whether there is reason to restrict the public. The bill establishes a procedure for reviewing classified information. If the data seeker goes to court for refusal of his or her data request, the court will initiate the procedure for confidentiality oversight at the Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. This will be a practical new system tailored to the illegal procedure of Péter Szijjártó. Péter Szijjártó refused to issue public information on the civil servants of his ministry by qualifying the requested information after submitting the request for data, and the court could do nothing but reject the request for data. It's a form of abuse of power, isn't it? Although the current bill allows for a review of the secret, despite the fact that the review takes place in the context of the data request, the data seeker does not have any role to play in the procedure. The requester is not a client, i.e. he cannot exercise any customer rights. It is clear that the data seeker should not have been given access to classified information, but should have been given the right to exercise his procedural rights, such as the right to make a declaration, the right to appeal. I would have been happy if the president of the NAIH had made a little more noise at the Legislative Committee's meeting - perhaps later. The bill is very strange 17. Article 27 of the info law states that one of the text-exchange amendments is to be read as follows: In paragraph 6 of this Article, if the text of the data is replaced by the text of the data, the data shall also serve to establish a further future decision, or the data shall be entered. The explanatory statement attempts to explain the inexplicable, it refers to the fact that, if the data produced or recorded in the process of making a decision under the responsibility and competence of the body performing the public service mission are part of a total of data for which a decision has been taken, but other elements will be subject to further decisions, only the latter data will not be made public for 10 years. Let us, say, shed light on this with a lifelike example, ladies and gentlemen. The government decides, on the basis of a presentation, let's say that we are current, that the World Swimming Championship will have such and under such conditions temporary bleachers in 2017, the decision was made, so the knowledge of the data would not be limited. However, it is also proposed that these temporary bleachers will be used, say, in eight years' time, also at the water sports festival, so that all data will be pre-decision data, so that it will not be public for ten years. Now, I think it's much clearer what's going on. Congratulations on this creativity, honourable Members, of course I think and say this in a negative and pejorative sense. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, it is not possible to support this proposal, but it must be spoken most strongly against the adoption of this proposal by the Parliament. I can only repeat the fact that I started the introduction that this is nothing more than the law of misbehaving with data of general interest, which tries to establish a set of rules to make it as difficult as possible to obtain data of public interest in terms of public abuse, to ask for it for private individuals or even for a social organisation. There is not a single provision in the bill that would make the dissemination and dissemination of data of general interest easier or reinforced by guarantees, only a proposal that makes it more difficult, difficult or even impossible to access data of general interest. I would like to emphasise once again that the proposal is unacceptable, it is against the basic law, and therefore the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will certainly not support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-30-218	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Imre Vejkey, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-06-30-219	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information! T/5404. The purpose of the 2011 CXII bill on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. In the light of the experience of the application of law following the entry into force of law and the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court and the obligations of our country arising from membership of the European Union, the further development of the legal rules on the protection of personal data and the acquisition of public data of general interest, and the implementation of amendments which further strengthen the guarantees of the protection of fundamental rights, as well as the interests of data controllers. The bill establishes as a new legal institution in Hungarian law the legal institution already employed in several countries of the European Union, which was developed in detail by the so-called Working Party under Article 22 of the European Union's Member States' data protection supervisory authorities, Binding Corporate Rules, i.e. BCR. [[19.00]] The bill also defines the concept of a data protection incident, which includes any unlawful processing or unauthorised processing of data, whether or not the unlawful conduct was the result of intentional or negligent conduct, or whether it was based on any external influence or technical error. The bill also amends the procedural rules relating to the need for access to data of general interest, in particular the conditions for extension and refusal of application, as well as the rules on reimbursement for the fulfilment of the claim. In some cases, requests for data in the public interest relate to data which are undoubtedly public data in the public interest or in the public interest and are managed by the controller, but the fulfilment of the request goes beyond the simple operation. This may include requests to determine by the controller whether the requested data are available and can be disclosed as public data in the public interest or in the public interest, but also requests that require a review of a large number of media or databases and the selection of requested data for the proper performance of such requests. This addition to the regulation is without prejudice to the relevance of the data protection application practice that the public service body is not obliged to produce new, qualitatively different data. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of this, the bill also adds legal consequences to cases where the fulfilment of the data request would entail disproportionate use of the labour force needed to carry out the basic activity of the body performing the public service. These legal consequences provide the controller with the possibility of extending the deadline for the fulfilment of the data request once by 15 days and allow him to make the request subject to prior reimbursement of the costs incurred in relation to it. The amount of the reimbursement shall be communicated in advance to the data seeker in accordance with the bill. In the light of this information, the data seeker may, at his own choice, maintain or withdraw from his or her previous application or submit an amended data request. In the event that, following information on the costs, the data seeker does not make a statement within the time limit laid down by law, the controller shall not be obliged to comply with the claim. In addition, in order to prevent unnecessary additional burden for data controllers, the bill allows the controller to be exempted from the obligation to re-acquisition within one year of the same data request from the same data seeker. The provision does not substantially affect the exercise of freedom of information, as the controller must respond substantially to the first request for data and the means of redress shall continue to be open in the event of refusal of data request or failure to reply. The bill also makes it clear that the authority is entitled to open data protection proceedings on its own initiative in any case, but in cases where there is a likelihood of unlawful processing of personal data and unlawful processing, a wide range of persons are affected or may cause serious harm or harm, the initiation of such proceedings is mandatory. In addition to the above, the bill extends the scope of cases where the authority may make its decision public in order to ensure that the overall preventive nature of the decision prevails. The bill includes provisions relating to the procedure for the approval of compulsory organizational regulations among the rules of the info law. The reason for this is that the proposal sets out as a guarantee element that personal data may be transferred to a third country under mandatory organisational arrangements only if the mandatory organisational arrangements have been approved by the Authority. The procedure for the approval of compulsory organisational arrangements is an official procedure for which the General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service, 2004 CXL. Law, that is, the Ket. the provisions of this Regulation shall be regarded as relevant and an administrative service fee shall be charged for the conduct of the procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please support the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Act T/5404 on the amendment of certain other laws Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-30-220	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2015-06-30-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am not surprised that Minister László Trócsányi is not present now, just as he was here in the amendment of the law on implementation, and he said that the presentation that the House is going to negotiate was born after a five-party consultation - now another thing about who was represented in the Ministry, we were there, and we formulated our proposals - and he also proudly pointed out the points that he considers to be forward-looking. I believe that it is indicative that he is not here now, Minister, and I must tell you frankly, I also admire that he has taken the proposal in his name at all, and that it has not been tabled as an independent motion by just one of his representatives, as has already been done many times. Why am I saying this? Because we have seen the Minister's more serious and correct proposals recently, and it is quite clear that when he puts forward this proposal, he is fulfilling the government's task of being entrusted or instructed to do so. It is probably not that such a proposal is made at the judicial wallet and that they can fully agree with it. In this respect, all due respect to Secretary of State Répássy, who is trying to defend the honour of the mundé as a good secretary of state, and is trying to put forward professional arguments for the proposal before us, which, let's face it, is very difficult. I believe that data protection does not mean that public data are protected in all ways and with all their strength from being known to people or even opposition representatives. If that's what data protection means, then let's stop this way. I'd like to divide my speech into two parts. It is very important that, on the one hand, there is a regulation in the proposal on the subject of confidentiality monitoring procedures and ratings. This is, in part, good or some progress. This is, of course, due to the decision of the Constitutional Court. So if we think that this was born because the government has admitted that the current legislation is not good, then we are wrong. So on the one hand, I would like to address this, and then I would like to discuss the possibility of making public data available, the changing proposals on freedom of information, but first I would like to enter into an analysis on classified data. When we talk about the availability of public data, it is an important aspect, and not only with this view, but also with access to public data, it is best to prevent such data from being classified. As my colleague Gergely Bárándy said, something happened here in the House of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that was then classified as being requested. I think that's the last thing I'm gonna do, let me put it this way, it's perfectly transparent, and it's not just the horse's foot, it's the horse, as they say. [[19.10]] The other range of ratings experienced in the last 25 years - and this was independent of governments - was that some sins could be obscured by classification of these data, and then almost no one could and almost never have access to them. There could be oil issues, the Gripen case, and even agent files that are virtually unknown to us today. So it's a quarter of a century's sin for the parliaments and governments at all times that encryption, today's word, has been used to hide most of their own sins. Of course, there are issues where this is justified, but in many cases these ratings have gone beyond that. In 2009, the Parliament adopted the two-thirds law on classified information, and it was not by accident that it adopted it, as it saw that several parties and several new parties could be included in the Parliament; it did, but most of all, I believe that Jobbik's power and fear of what would happen if someone wanted to get to the bottom of these classified data or to dissolve the rating. They wanted to stop that from happening anyway. On the one hand, if a person has access to classified information, he will face serious punishment even if the rating appears unjustified, but if it is formally qualified, more serious penalties have been envisaged with the 2009 amendment - this is one half of it. The other annoying half of it, or even more annoying half of it, is that it was modified then and the Btk. 266. It also states today that the offence of the abuse of classified data can only be actually committed or, to be more precise, criminal proceedings can only be initiated if the complaint is filed by the qualifying owner, i.e. by the secret administrator. What does that mean? If someone finds out, let's say, that an opposition representative is abusing a completely obvious classified information, even though he's filing a complaint, if the rating doesn't do that, nothing will happen. In many cases, we have seen in recent years that, as soon as pro-government representatives, let us say, come out of the meeting of the National Security Committee, they tell us a piece of information that is absolutely clear that the abuse of classified information can be done in a safe way, because no one, not even the opposition representative who was sitting there at the committee meeting, knows perfectly that it is classified data. The rating, who is obviously to be sought in the government's system, either by a minister or by the head of the bodies below, will not press charges. Now, this is an impertinence in itself, which creates a system where, in fact, there is nothing to be done here in relation to classified data in order to make them public, and, moreover, if, as a political or legal step towards the opposition, any such data is made public, whether misleadingly, it is not possible to deal with them; this is a huge problem. Otherwise, the fact that the president of NAIH is able to act and initiate a secret oversight procedure - and the rules of this procedure are now being explained in some respects and we are talking about an ex officio procedure in requesting data in the public interest - can lead to a secrecy procedure, of course it is a good thing, but it is not enough. It is not sufficient, since no one has the right to refer to a court or to do anything to lift the rating. Of course, you should be happy that the president of the NAIH can do anything. So, in general, we could not see that, in most cases, the President would have gone to court with regard to serious classified information. This may have happened in a small case or two, but this has not been done in a systemic way. This is a problem that will have to be eliminated at some point, and that the law introduces them, in fact, is a minor step forward, and, as I said, this is also based on the decision of the Constitutional Court. The other half of the proposal, which is truly outrageous, is how they try to make public data impossible, the information that citizens or opposition representatives should be able to access. And we are not only talking about Members of Parliament, but also, in many cases, representatives of local governments who are seeking certain data from the mayor or the data controller, and in the future, they are more difficult to access. At the committee meeting, I quoted this - I will do it again - from the law passed last week, which builds an EU directive into Hungarian law. This was an exceptionally good change, and it is true that it is about the recycling of public data, but it is clearly mentioned in the general justification. I would like to quote and stress that recycling is, to say the least, a more distant category than direct knowledgeability:. The amount of charges that can be charged for making it available cannot, as a rule, exceed the marginal cost of making it available, i.e. the amount of costs incurred in direct connection with making it available. A fee to cover the production of the data is only possible in exceptional cases. This last week we were very pleased that it was adopted, and now, this week, we are urgently bringing in a proposal that is completely unacceptable and opens a door that will allow us to charge fees for various data processing or to pay the costs of employees and civil servants who are working on this, which is unacceptable. It's unacceptable because we're talking about public funds, we're talking about public data, and we don't have to pay anyone who tries to ask for it. It happened in 40-50 thousand settlements, our municipal representatives told me and sent it to me that they were already upset about 80 to 100 pages of material, and said that this would prevent the work of the entire office. It also appeared in the press that Máté Kocsis, for example, calculated - I don't know how it came out - that in four years HUF 111 million was spent in answering public interest data, such requests for data. Now, 31 million of these were supposedly electricity, heating, the Internet. So we're gonna pass on these, too? Because on the basis of this principle, it will be paid by those who are asking for information of public interest, and also that we should say that we should buy a chair for those who otherwise provide this data or that they can sit in front of a computer with Internet access. I think the right solution in general would be to have more data on the Internet, on Internet sites, either in the case of municipalities or public bodies, and then everyone could look up what they want to see. So it is not acceptable to argue what the pro-government representatives have said here and in the Legislative Committee that it is so much work to collect data from here and there. Mr Balla also gave an example - he read a letter, we do not know where he got it - that if someone asks for all kinds of data from different areas, but let us start by saying that only the data available to the data controller can be requested. So it's not about someone writing a letter to the Prime Minister, and let's say he's also curious about the data handled at the last municipality, so let's look at the system more legally. I add, and this has also been said here, if new data are to be generated, it can be rejected. So this is not about producing new data. You're welcome to give that data mass to the claimant, and he'll sort them out. That is why it would be appropriate to provide these data in, say, digitally processed format, which was set out in the law adopted last week. Because of the shortness of time, because the law contains a lot of interesting things, such as creating a future decision, it is brilliant, so anything can be said that it is about establishing a future decision, almost anything. I have to say, given your imagination, there is no area that can't be included, and then, of course, you can argue that it is true, it isn't, but this is going to be a lengthy legal debate. And the 23rd. In the case of §2 the Secretary of State said that there is a reference to the copyright section. [[19.20]] That's true; there may be a problem, I might add. However, this reference probably did not prevent it, and we even know that it did not prevent the court from issuing the Századvég's studies, establishing them as final, and it seems that the law must be amended. I go against the principle that if the government, the state, wants to use it in studies of hundreds of millions of forints or even millions of forints of public money - because in the case of larger companies there are billions of forints in total - the copyrights, I think, should at least be transferred to the state, to the government. A job has been ordered, a job has been done, and after that, if the right amount has been paid for, then don't make him refer to all kinds of copyrights afterwards. I can't do this. Then let this study be free, or don't ask for so much money, let's keep it a secret, the state uses it, it may make sense, but to talk about copyright matters in its depths, in cases where we pay public money to make these studies, this, I maintain that it is a pervert. If the law allows this, or if the Secretary of State tells us how deep he may have been - and not that point (h), if I remember correctly, point (h) says that yes, it is included - but how this has prevented access to data of public interest at its depths, and if that has really prevented him, we should rather take it out, but in the future, I think that if we pay something of public money, then it should be known, and more importantly, this should be useful for a study, and you should dare to accept that serious money has been paid for it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] If I remember correctly, point (h) states that yes, this is included - but how this prevented access to data of general interest at its depths, and if that really prevented it, then we should take it out, but in the future, I think that if we pay something of public money, then it should be known, and more importantly, this should be useful for a study, and dare you to accept that serious money has been paid for. Thank you very much. (Applause in Jobbik's ranks. )
u2015-06-30-222	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for not taking the opportunity to make an extraordinary speech; you are waiting for Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP.
u2015-06-30-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, "The truth never hurts if the intention is right," said Mahatma Gandhi; but sooner or later it always hurts those who avoid the public with bad intentions. Every year we can read alarming numbers and polling data in Hungary. These reflect widespread disillusionment from democracy, apathy and cynicism, the belief that the country's leaders do not deal at all with people's daily lives and their problems, but almost exclusively with their own benefits. Unfortunately, it must be said immediately that the disappointment and disillusionment of many is fully understandable, because good governance, good democracy is unimaginable as long as it is not about public affairs, public interests, debates and decisions. Public affairs, as can be seen from the name, are everyone's concern. Overcoming the country's problems begins with government measures and related background information being public. Everything that affects people, every public forint, is public. During the elections, people ask representatives to lead the country for four years, but governance does not mean that those who come to government can do anything arbitraryly; unfortunately, we experience this quite often today. The elected politicians were never angels, but they are now at an inaccessible distance. It seems that the common goods entrusted to them are being weighed to a greater extent than ever before, so the first step is to make every step of the state and government aware, verifiable, bounds, excuses, without any obstacles said to anyone. Until this basic condition is given, we would never dream of higher salaries, honest government, better life in Hungary. Fidesz, whose country fell on its lap after eight years, cannot be called the champion of transparency. Even the previous governments have not been accounted for, and they don't want to hear about the fact that they have to account for their actions and money. It is enough to think of the largest investment in Hungarian history, the Paks expansion worth more than HUF 6000 billion. All relevant details have been encrypted. A secret pact would decide the country's future for at least 50 years. But in everyday life, we also find that it is an obstacle to the understanding of data of public interest. The last minute, incomplete, censored reporting was the rule and not the exception over the last five years. Of course, the government is not the only secretive body. The practice has deteriorated and today it is common for the public administration and the municipalities to try to limit the acquisition of information. If the lawsuits, at the end of the legal barn twist, can't hide anything any more, then it turns out they're not covering things for nothing. We catch them driving home the money that should increase salaries or living standards in Hungary. This seems to be becoming unpleasant for Fidesz, so they're making a legislative amendment to cover up the downfall even more effectively. This is something that we are debating today, legislation to protect the business of the government, public authorities and local governments. Do we even have to argue about it? After all, at first glance it is obvious what this outrageous amendment is for, which, for some reason, has been brought before Parliament with great urgency. We must, because we cannot ignore this dishonesty, so I would like to briefly review the most objectionable proposals. One of these would be enough for the LMP to reject the proposal, but thus, in a bouquet, it appears that the proposal is the exact opposite of everything we think about democracy, the role of the state and the rights of citizens. First of all, it limits the ability to know the data used to prepare the decision. At first glance, this is an innocent small amendment - but which data serves the preparation of decisions is specified by the controller. Not only current but also future decisions can be referred to, i.e. since all data in the public administration can serve to prepare decisions, all data can be used to prepare decisions, this excuse can be drawn up for 10 years in relation to virtually all information. It's worth thinking about Paks II. The preparatory materials for government decisions are encrypted on the grounds that they serve the preparation of subsequent decisions. This defence is to be legally surrounded and extended to almost all relevant information. They brutally extend, increase the cost of data request. Data processing organisations may decide, on an arbitrary basis, how much labour is charged to data-seeking citizens, for example. Although this can be brought to justice in a court of law, it is not helpful if the fee is to be paid in advance. The truth in the world of Fidesz is expensive, and it seems that only the wealthy will have the privilege of controlling the government. Not to mention the fact that the court proceedings may prolong the case as well as the strudel. And time loss is often just enough to make bad measures happen or become irreversible; this is unacceptable at the principle level. Public security is part of the basic tasks of public bodies. What data seekers require is information just like information that can be taken into account in a normal internal audit. To charge a fee for their release is a great brazen thing to do. It is the same concern that the governing party would do with access to copyrighted data. On this basis, the disclosure of information could be refused and only access could be provided by the data processing bodies. By reading this provision, you can immediately think of the century's end and government's close or local government's close advisors. On this basis, it would be possible to prevent their excellent, or at least expensive, advice from being made public. What we're saying is, if you're looking for public money, a public order, you're willing to go public. Under the law amendment, the controller will no longer have to respond to anonymous, anonymous data requests. Imagine for a moment what all this could do in a small settlement. In the context of Fidesz's addiction, who will dare to take an interest in the local government's affairs with its name and title? It is immediately understandable that this passage will be a serious barrier to freedom of information in practice. The reasons for the amendment of the law state that it effectively eliminates the failure to comply with the constitutional law, to which the Constitutional Court obliges the legislator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, This amendment is not a solution to the problem indicated by the Constitutional Court in February. [[19.30]] The procedures for reviewing the classification of data will continue to be ex officio. Those interested citizens will not be equal clients. The procedure of the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority shall not change substantially in such cases. So the submission of the amendment of the law does not, in our view, meet the minimum. It doesn't remedy the unconstitutional situation. These five huge flaws in the bill will eliminate any minor progress, any positive. Overall, this amendment is a serious step backwards. Another step towards a world dreamed up by Fidesz, where they can govern without control, and citizens should be happy to get to know their part of the decisions in time. In recent years, unfortunately, we have seen where all this leads: hundreds of billions of offshore companies, dudes tailor-made legislation, secret trampolines, land contests and pacsi materials. This secrecy makes it possible at present, and even more so, according to the amendment, to make some people unimaginably rich. Meanwhile, the vast majority of the country does not come out or struggle with its monthly salary. The first step towards an increase in salaries and living standards is to prevent waste and waste of public money. To do so, however, we need to know what is happening and why it is happening in the administration of the government. For this reason, the May Other policy strongly rejects the legislative amendment that we are discussing, and I urge my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa and Dr. Gergely Bárándy applaud.]]
u2015-06-30-224	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Robert, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-30-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have applied for a proper speech, and I think I will speak in a corresponding time frame.
u2015-06-30-226	Yeah. Here.
u2015-06-30-227	I specifically volunteered, also accepting that the debate might be longer, because I would like to respond to your more or less objective comments, not just in the closing word. Therefore, I would like to respond to the criticisms that have been said, roughly grouped together. Partly, Erzsébet Schmuck also touched on the changes to the pre-decision data. I would also like to draw Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck's attention to what she expressed as a criticism of the proposal, namely, that the controller is still determining what is the pre-decision document. So, indeed, when you turn to the public body with a request for information, the public body can indicate and declare that this is a pre-decision document. But you need to be able to defend that statement in court. Obviously, even now, according to the law in force, the data seeker may object to the fact that this claim is false, and if the data controller cannot protect it, then it is obvious that this data should be published. I do not understand this criticism, because it is a criticism of the legislation in force, not of the bill. It is also possible to understand from the existing legislation that if a data is necessary for two decisions and only one decision has been taken, then the main rule of law can also be applied to the other decision. This is just a clarification amendment to the new decision. Obviously, not all data serve as a basis for the decision, nor as a basis for one or more decisions, nor as a basis for the future decision to which the data relate, nor should the controller be able to indicate and even defend that position before a court. Several criticisms were given to the reimbursement of the data request. Ladies and gentlemen, Accumulation of the use of the workforce will only be possible if it is disproportionate. Therefore, the data seeker may be required to reimburse disproportionate costs, and the main rule applies in this case as well. Therefore, the disproportionate extent must be demonstrated by the controller, as has been the case with all elements regarding the justification for reimbursement. So when, at present, reimbursement is charged, you must also be able to protect it in court by the controller. Whether it is really a disproportionate labour cost and what is the real need for it must also be able, in the event of a court dispute, to derive from the data holder, the data controller, as the court decides on the real content of the cost in hundreds of civil lawsuits every day. Anonymisation and cover-up may be a significant and demanding job, with a number of personal data on each page of each document. The labour demand for data search cannot be marginalized, data requests often refer to data years earlier. For the purpose of electronicisation, the government has done a great deal with regard to the electronic delivery of case files and the electronic delivery of databases, but the data controller must also act in respect of paper-based documents which are still paper-based or previously generated, and, where appropriate, must also collect paper-based data. So you can't just use electronics to solve the data request. Let us not forget that data requests can affect not only the largest public institutions, but indeed the municipalities, which have much less resources for this task. I would like to address your criticism of copyright. First of all, the data seeker, of course, and the author of the author, have rights. The purpose of ensuring their consistency is the legislator. This is also referred to in the current law that, on the basis of intellectual property rights, data requirements of general interest may be limited. Public disclosure of public interest data is not compromised. According to the proposal, the data will be available. So the author's work will also be available, and the data seeker can report it to the public. The author has the right to indicate the name, to observe the rules of subpoena, to protect the unity of the work. In the case of the issue of a copy, there is not a risk that the original author would sell the public study to anyone else, but that the study would be used for economic purposes by someone else. That's why the copyright law protects the author's work. There were also criticisms of anonymous and repeated data requests, the latest criticism being from Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck said that, in a surprising way, how shall I put it, that there is no need to answer the anonymous request after the adoption of the proposal. Who should answer the anonymous request? Who to send the answer if the request is anonymous? Ladies and gentlemen, It was necessary to provide some of the minimum data of the data seeker, since it is necessary to send the requested data to someone's contact details. In the majority of EU Member States, the same regulation, at least the name and contact details, must be provided. It is even more essential to process the data requester's data if reimbursement is required. This is essential for cooperation with the data seeker, such as clarification, clarification of the data request or extension of the deadline, and it is not possible to make use of a remedy who has not provided a name and contact details. All we need is a name and contact details, a regulation and nothing else. Reclaiming data does not need to be answered unless it comes from the same claimant. This is why it is also necessary to provide the data. If the previous request for data was rejected by the controller, it could turn to the requesting court. In such cases, it is not justified to re-manage the same data request in all respects. [[19.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Criticism has also been expressed in connection with the secrecy process. In fact, the main criticism can be summarised by not eliminating the omission revealed by the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, our position is that, if the proposal is adopted, a mandatory review of the content by an independent institution will be ensured in the regulatory model under the proposal. The bodies that have the most experience in this, i.e. the qualification, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, and the court will act. Other constitutional objections are difficult for me to interpret if they do not indicate which points of the Fundamental Law you believe would be violated. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to point out - and I did so at the committee meeting - that demand for data in the public interest is still under double control, on the one hand, to the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, on the other hand, if, when requesting data in the public interest, the data seeker considers that his rights to freedom of information are violated, and perhaps even stronger, that they can appeal to the court in the same way. Therefore, the bill does not bring any change in the order that the dispute between the body handling data of general interest and the data seeker will ultimately be resolved by the court and the court may order the organisation holding data of general interest to disclose these data of general interest. My fellow Members, the right to access data of general interest is not impaired if there are 20,000 pages of data needs - because they also occur - or data needs that are collected for two weeks must be reimbursed at least part of it. It is not true that, according to the proposal, this would be a reimbursement of a service, although I note that reimbursement of administrative services is a general practice in the public administration. This was my intention to respond briefly to the arguments raised in the debate. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-228	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-06-30-229	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the importance of this subject, I would like to respond to the arguments raised by the Secretary of State, and thank you for not saying them in the closing words - Mr Secretary of State is always a gentleman in this respect, and we are used to setting them as examples for other State Secretarys - because this is how we can answer. But to get to the point: Article 6 (2) of the Fundamental Law speaks about the availability of data of general interest, so it is quite clear that this right is a fundamental right, a constitutional fundamental right. Now, if it is a constitutional fundamental right, Article 1 (3) of the Fundamental Law makes it quite clear that it is necessary and proportionate to limit the validity of another fundamental right, and the fundamental essence of it must not be affected by the law. So that's the problem, and that's why we basically consider it against the law, because if you charge a fee, it's difficult to predict, in many cases you charge a totally unpredictable fee, or, in some cases, you charge a fee so high that, say, you have to pay a week's wages to a well-paid civil servant, to a civil servant, that's a real obstacle to fundamental rights, and that's what you can see here. I told you this anyway, because here you can say that many pages, 20,000 pages, are working on it for a week, I'm working on this in practice, whether you believe it or not, I can't imagine. Because if these data were made public, as is often mandatory, but they didn't, and let's just say they put it on the Internet, then they could say that everything is there, look it up. So the whole polarity would be eliminated only if, in many cases, the data controllers fulfilled their obligations, or in the future, they would spot us with data seekers and load up everything that is information of public interest, and they could be said to search for it themselves, everything is up there, it can be sorted out. But otherwise, this sorting and sorting is tricky because where new data needs to be created or the creation of a new database is the purpose of the request, it can be denied. If it's not a new database, then I really can't imagine how much money can be spent or what can be worked on for a week, then it's a big problem if you have so much to do - and it didn't get on the web - that the processing of it takes so much time. That is why I gave the example of VIII. It's from a district, but in many cases it can be an electric, heating, internet account, which they try to include in the cost of accessing data of general interest. So I think it's absurd to talk about such heating or electricity bills here, but I think the Secretary of State may admit that. The other thing I'd like to respond to is copyright. I maintain that if the state pays public money for a study, then it should be as if it were the state's, if it ordered a statue and put it out, the rights attached to spiritual creation in this case would be partially transferred to the customer. I do not want to go into the legislation now, but Mr. Secretary of State has begun to make the point, and I have written this down to myself: indeed, the principle of the name law, the right to subpoena, the unity of the work remains, but that is not the case here. Obviously, if, let's say, a sculptor creates a work, one of the districts or the capitals owns it, dumps it, it's still his intellectual product, his copyright applies to this in the sense that it can't be said that another person created that work, that's true, but that doesn't mean that it's not about knowledgeability or access to data. Mr Secretary of State also said that he would be used for economic purposes by someone else. I can't understand this here because if a study is for the state - on the one hand, I understand that the author's name is indicated, the right to subpoena, the unity of the work, that's okay, we give it to him - how can someone use it economically? Do you publish it by your own name? It's a felony. Is it economical? It's also a crime, especially when it happens in a profit-oriented way. However, if it is a study carried out for the State, it is likely that it will contribute to the state's operation and the improvement or preparation of the state system. In this regard, I find it difficult to see it useful in economic life. So I have to say that with these additions, apart from the fact that the right to a name, to have someone's name mentioned, of course, is entitled to the author, but other rights must be transferred. If that's not the case today, then this needs to be changed. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you very much, Mr Józsa, for his half-spoken remark that I forgot to indicate that two-minute speeches are possible, one Member per faction and the first independent Member, if there is one in the Chamber, may be at the expense of the remaining timeframes. But I can't see for two minutes, so I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-06-30-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to respond to what Mr Secretary of State has said, and, as Congressman Staudt, I would like to start by saying that I absolutely appreciate the fact that he is speaking in the debate and that it is therefore possible to have a substantive debate; it would indeed be good for his fellow State Secretary to take an example of this attitude. Mr Staudt has already said a part of what I would have liked, but I can indeed confirm that Article 6 (2) of the Fundamental Law - which I have referred to in my speech - and Article 1 (3) are indeed about limiting fundamental rights to the extent strictly necessary in order to safeguard other fundamental rights or a constitutional value, in proportion to the objective pursued, while respecting the essential content of fundamental rights. [[19.50]] In fact, Article 1 (3) and Article 1 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which I have referred to in my speech, concern that, to the extent strictly necessary, in order to protect another fundamental right or a constitutional value, the fundamental right may be limited to the extent necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, while respecting the essential content of the fundamental right.(19.50) This is exactly what we indicated. And if I may, Mr Secretary, I will also say that I am primarily the bill 5. In relation to paragraphs 4 (), 8 and 9), I see this in violation of the fact that I am quite specific. I also said in my first speech that you cannot oppose another fundamental right to this fundamental right. You say, as an argument, that this is necessary to protect the source of labour. Just, Mr. Secretary of State, mark the fundamental rights where the protection of the workforce is named. Our objection is precisely that this fundamental right cannot be limited to this purpose, because it is not a fundamental right that you are talking about, nor is it a constitutional value that could be limited in view of another fundamental right. That is to say, according to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, it is quite clear which paragraph violates which section of the Fundamental Law and why this proposal is unconstitutional. You can't go against the practicality of fundamental rights, because that's what you're doing right now. They say there's a lot of work to do, so it would be practical to apply such a rule. But that's not a legal argument. And if you, Mr State Secretary, want something concrete, then I think that both of us, Congressman Staudt, and I, have determined it in a very specific way. I have yet another fundamental problem with this proposal, and I would like to refer here to what Mr Secretary of State has said. I believe you, and a man, especially as a lawyer, obviously has a fantasy to come up with something and look for appropriate, otherwise acceptable reasons. Again, this is a novelty here in the Hungarian Parliament, because in the vast majority of the so-called public-law amendments, the author or the government did not even bother to find acceptable arguments for a provision from a legislative point of view, but the argument was that it was only because I wanted it to be so. At least here, Mr Secretary of State is trying to put some arguments in favour. But if we look at the whole proposal and if a sentence is to be highlighted, the point is, Mr Secretary of State, that there is no provision in the bill that would make it easier to get to know and disseminate data of general interest or strengthen it with guarantees. On the other hand, there are many parts of this proposal that make access to data of general interest difficult. These options are withdrawn from claimants. This is, in principle, the biggest problem of this proposal. It pushes regulation in a direction that is favourable to the State and negative to the data seeker - I can put it this way - in addition to the fact that it is unconstitutional or unconstitutional, it is the most conceptual problem. I would also like to point out that it is indeed interesting to compare copyrights. First of all, it is not a constitutional fundamental right, but a milder right. At most, the right to property can be brought here. I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, that when the author writes something and sells it - whether he sells this intellectual product to the state or to a publishing house - he is removed from his provision by a certain point. Of course, copyrights that concern that plagiarism is still not permissible, to put it in English, so that in any case its intellectual product is indicated that it is his intellectual product, in any case it is entitled to the author. But if you sell this to the State, then I think that, of course, you will also undertake that this intellectual product will be removed from your range from this point on. I don't think it's a property like anything else, it's a very special one, so, of course, there are very special rules for copyright. And if it contains such information as, say, military secrets, then, of course, there is an opportunity to declare this classified data by the secret provider. I note that, for example, in Sweden, all data that is included in the state - be it a private letter, be it a study, be it anything - is automatically public and accessible to everyone. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, the interesting thing about this proposal and the associated situation in life - I referred to it in my speech as the lead speaker, and it seems that we are thinking one thing in this respect with my fellow Member Staudt - is that there is a solution that could address this problem, which could be dealt with constitutionally. That is why I stressed that, instead of reducing transparency, the so-called proactive freedom of information would be increased if, without request, an electronic publication of information on its operation was made by a government body. If a piece of legislation were to be put forward that would at least in the future make the relevant data publicly available in relation to these data, let us say, the figure of how much money is spent, I do not know, for example, for the purchase or maintenance of cars by individual ministries, it should not be requested in the form of a request for data in the public interest, but could be easily downloaded from the Internet. I think that we should move in this direction instead of restricting the rights of the data seeker because it causes some practical problems. And in this speech, I did not even mention that, in our view, the legislator was guided by a much more reprehensible ulterior motive when he presented this bill. I have now said my thoughts in this speech, assuming good intentions. I think, since there is no constitutional possibility in this direction, but it has given us a solution in the other direction, and it also provides a solution to practical problems, it would be fortunate if the government would consider this, withdraw this proposal, and move in the other direction that I think we could all support. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-30-232	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck for two minutes, LMP.
u2015-06-30-233	Thank you very much. My fellow Members have responded to almost everything Mr Répássy raised. There's only one left in the air, the anonymous, anonymous data requests. It can be approached in the opposite direction: so far such a practice has obviously existed, because if it had not existed, it would not have been necessary to amend the law accordingly. I don't know the specifics, our experts raised this, but I suppose if this was modified, then this existed, and there are different ways to answer those questions in such a case; to post it on the wall of the municipality, I don't know, mailbox... but this probably existed. Thank you.
u2015-06-30-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-06-30-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to confirm my colleague Gergely Bárándy's statement that sometimes the government's attitude to the debate is beginning to remind us of Parliament when we are discussing today's item and to confirm that Mr Répássy, Mr Róbert, State Secretary, is not a coward. I'm doing this because yesterday, the president-in-chief reprimanded me, while Lajos Kósa took advantage of the opportunity not to talk to the debate, but, in closing, he said some mean things that forced me to stop being a coward because he wouldn't take the fight, but rather, as in football, when the fighter left, he kicked a big one. So I confirm that Congressman Répássy is not a coward, but those who have ordered this proposal are cowards. Because the whole bill is aimed at what Gergő Bárándy has already said - sorry to mention it in his nickname, but given his youth, I think this is not yet so dehonest - that the whole direction of change is going to make it harder to get access to data of public interest, the more difficult it is to get to know them, and not to get to know transparency as easily as possible. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the work of anonymizing a contract or material. What if, using digital technology, the parts that would be subject to data protection are quasi-cleared and coloured immediately upon the preparation of the data or document and then removed from the document by pressing a button and subsequently made public after the preparation? [[20.00]] If you were to make such a suggestion, we would believe the good intentions that you want to know the data of public interest. Thank you. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-236	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, MSZP.
u2015-06-30-237	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the house rules. I have just spoken to the debate, and I would like to add a few amendments to the content of the proposal. Somehow I've noted to myself that public money is a common good. So if the state makes public money to make studies that are of some benefit, then it serves the common good. Then let's get to know him. This is the logic of public money and the functioning of the state, in my opinion. There was such an approach at the level of basic research, that some prominent explorers considered their own work to be scientific, and deliberately did not patent it, that if they received support for research, it would serve the common good directly, and I think that in some academic research it is also a requirement that they cannot be used for their own purposes and that they should not be used for patents. So, given the trend in this presentation, which you then confirmed here in your oral speech, that you will have to protect things in court, this means that the obstacle course is becoming increasingly difficult. For when there is no normative price, even at a point of view, what is the price of a data of general interest, is what the worker turns on and directly contributes to the transferability, or perhaps the price for which the state ordered it, and as an intellectual product, has come into his possession... Because in the case of intellectual products, very strange things came to light, or at least they were in the press at the time of the NAV banning scandal, that X, I do not want to name which government nearby research institute has to order a study for x billion forints, and then there will be no problem with the interpretation of the general traffic tax return. They say that's what the Americans or one of the U.S. companies have failed to do, that it's a little too much of an idea of what's going on. Of course, the fact that a research institute has a turnover can, of course, be seen under the rules of the Accounting Act, but what is the subject of the study, whether it is in proportion, or if there is no excessive disproportionateness, is likely to be data of public interest in such a case. So what the Secretary of State said about cost invaluable is likely to be better controlled in the digital age. I have already made a suggestion that information that can be covered, say, at a later disclosure or at a request, should be marked immediately when the document is drawn up, but the same could mean reducing the copying costs by providing the required data not in printed form, but with a digital medium. One more detour, he mentioned twice that it would have to be protected in court, for example, that the cost of charging data is realistic or not. But think about it, because the whole constitutional guarantee about the availability of data in the public interest ultimately means that this process does not mean any depression for a data seeker. Now, if you apply for normative means any cost, it's unacceptable. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence, Fidesz.
u2015-06-30-239	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to respond to a few things, too, because I think that we may have started a royalty debate on some issues, and perhaps the debate has gone in a more objective direction, so I think that this is positive for all of us, because if we are discussing a law, we can only debate it properly if we debate it objectively and not with subjective elements. I consider it essential that all such legislation, and this legislation and this legislative amendment, are also under judicial control, on the one hand, given that there is a mandate in it, which concerns the establishment of a regulation by the government, which is also under the control of the Constitutional Court, on the other hand, every institution that is included in this legislation is subject to judicial control, and on the other hand, we also have a separate office, which also controls the enforcement of the rights here on the basis of a double control. Therefore, it is not a matter of determining something in itself and going on without control at a later stage, but in the event that the rightholder, i.e. who requires the data, evaluates that his or her right does not apply properly, he or she can enforce his or her right under double safeguards in addition to constitutional guarantees. This is a special case, by the way, when, in addition to legal proceedings, there is another control in these proceedings. So the very important fact must be stated that it is not, let us say, that the data owner himself would lay down certain rules and certain things in this regard, which, by the way, no one would control later, but that he must be able to defend all such decisions before the court. However, I would add that this is not only in this area of law, but also in other areas of law, as far as the public administration is concerned overall, all decisions and decisions must be protected in the future before the court, and judicial control will apply there. So it's not that, let's say, in any administrative matter, the administrative body itself would only decide from its own well, but it must be able to defend this decision in several forums. So, in a court of law forum, you must be able to defend this provision in the context of administrative jurisdiction, in the first instance. As regards the competition of rights, it should also be noted that, when we talk about which law it competes with, the Fundamental Law is governed by Article XXIV. I would also like to refer to Article 4 of the Treaty, which states that everyone has the right to have his affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. So there is a rule set out in the Constitution, and we are not talking about, say, the rights of workers being violated, because they have to work more, but there is a role of the institution as defined in the Constitution, an administration institution, and in the event that someone abuses its right, and this fundamental right is violated, because the body is not able to perform its task properly, in which case these two rights compete with each other in this form. This balance must be corrected so that the body itself is able to carry out its task, and otherwise the other fundamental right is not violated, so it is the right to have access to data of general interest. So this is how this legislation should be seen overall, and this fine-tuning must be created in some form. Because the problem is real, and the question has been raised here, my fellow Member, cannot imagine that people's work is being downloaded for several days by a data request, but, yes, even in municipalities, from a small local government to a large local government, there are cases where otherwise seemingly unjustified but otherwise legitimate requests for data involve workers for several days. They consume resources that, on the other hand, question the social usefulness of this. Therefore, they are able to endanger or threaten the core operational element of an institution. [[20.10]] These two must be balanced in some form. That is what this legislation is all about. It is not a coincidence, on the one hand, that the time limit and, on the other, that the system of reimbursement is introduced in such a way by the legislator in a controlled manner, according to the fact that this can, of course, be challenged by court. So if someone questions that, then on the one hand, there will be a government decree, and on the other hand, it will be possible to go on the way to court. So you can see later whether this decision was appropriate or not. Because it is the same decision that the authority is considering, but it is not arbitrary, it is accordingly subject to constitutional, otherwise independent judicial action, which will control this decision later on, or it may even change it. So when we talk about some authority making some kind of decision, these decisions are never decisions on its own, there is always another body behind the administration, in this regard the court, or here we have a special case, another office that controls these decisions in this form, and decisions will change accordingly later. This happens in practice, by the way. It is indeed the case that these decisions will change, since in some cases, when any public body does not issue any data, because it will either consider it that way or make any other decision, the court will later change them. We witness this every day. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-30-240	Thank you very much, Congressman Tuzson Bence. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-06-30-241	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't want to comment anymore, but my colleague Tuzson inspired me. I listened to what you said with sincere admiration. There were some parts that were really fantastic. You say that the two fundamental rights are set against each other, that if someone asks for too much data for speculative purposes and it is very busy with the office, then others who deal with matters and then do not have an administrator, their right to a fair trial will be violated. I'm not sure that's gonna hold up in the Constitutional Court. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] Let me get this straight. This is not about putting two fundamental rights together. If this is the case and it is not possible for the agency to carry out its task, because it is also responsible for issuing public data, then it is necessary to hire another workforce or two more. So the two can't be set against each other. [[Tuzson Bence: That's not your basic task!]] But it also has a duty to create access to public data. The fact that he is now basically involved in issuing permits is equally true and his constitutional task is to release these data. I understand the logic not to overwhelm these poor offices, there are notorious data seekers who, therefore, are abusively demanding data. I'm sure there are some cases, but it's not the overwhelming exercise. That's why I suggested they put it on the Internet. It's as simple as that. If enough years go by and I put it up next year and again, and it's gonna be on the Internet for ten years, you could say it's on the Internet. I understand that if you do not comply with those obligations to disclose the data, because otherwise believe me, you may not have experienced this, I regret that in many cases, you do not post data on the Internet that should otherwise be posted. In many cases, I have turned myself and our local government representative for data that, let's say, should have been made public by law. So not only should you let yourself and you have access to it, but you should have put it on the Internet. They didn't do that, and that's why they had to file an application and then sue if necessary. So we're going the wrong way. Let's take advantage of the achievements of the digital age. The Internet wasn't invented yesterday, by the way. Therefore, these data should be valid for 5 to 10 years. This is bad practice, if we try to create a decision about what they put up, what they don't put up, what decision preparation is, what we don't, how much it costs to publish. They're also dams. These are both barriers and, although I do not want to give examples of EU law, in this case, the point is that regulations in the development of European law are known for their formal compliance with the law, but are otherwise hindering its proper implementation. It hinders, as they create obstacles that you will have to write an appeal, go to court, hire a lawyer, put extra money into it, and in the end you may get these data. If someone's going through this procedure, suing him, he might get it, but an ordinary citizen won't do it, he'll just take a swing and say, "Let's just leave it alone." Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-30-242	Thank you very much. I don't see any more candidates on the screen. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary. You have a ten-minute time frame at your disposal.
u2015-06-30-243	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I am pleased that we have been able to have more or less, rather than less objective discussions on this bill. I'm trying not to answer your political desires right now, but let me say one sentence. I fully agree with Mr Józsa that, for example, copyright commissioned by public bodies serves the common good, and it would therefore be appropriate to make these works available to the public. But one of the outstanding examples of your governance was the study of a certain Ron Werber, which was not first published with reference to the pre-decision document, and then granted access to this authorship to opposition representatives, including myself. So you've done exactly what you've done. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Like you!]] has now been challenged and can be derived from the legislation in force. I did, too, at the time, object to it, but it is also the fact that there is a certain protection of copyright that some parts of it cannot be recognized. Returning to the criticisms I have heard, I would like to answer them in a few words. First of all, you have said that the right to access data of general interest can only be justified by the protection of another fundamental right, and that is the only way to limit the right to access data of general interest. But, dear fellow Members, there are restrictions in the law right now! The law says, for example, that the pre-decision document cannot be recognized. The law says, for example, that photocopying should be paid. So there are some restrictions right now. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm not sure it's constitutional.]] which are not directly attributable, let's say, to another fundamental right, but let's just say that common sense can at least be traced back to the fact that the cost of copying has to be paid. [[Dr. István Józsa: In Digital Age?]] I also have an opinion on digitisation, and a very important element of this debate is that when we talk about data of public interest and data at all, and when we talk about data of the law, then - to be precise - you talk about documents in general. The file and the data are not the same. According to the law, the document is not public, of course, including the case where the whole document is public information, then, of course, the whole document itself is public, but it is not always the case. The point of this whole problem is that the public administration works with documents, files, cases, and the data seeker requests a certain data or more data. Therefore, data of public interest should be selected from the documents or collected from them. The document shall not be published automatically. Of course, I say, the situation may arise that the whole document is public, but that is not always the case, and it is necessary to determine from a serious labour-intensive work that what is in the file is data of public interest and how exactly the request for data is to be met. The situation would be very simple, and many people offered it. The situation would be very simple if the law said that the documents of certain public bodies, in simple terms, must be published on the website. [[20.20]] There are such documents, so there are such documents which must be made public, and there are such so-called special disclosure obligations or lists of publications, where certain contracts or basic contract particulars must be made public. So this is known by the law in force, but still, the reality is that the document and the data do not coincide, which is why we have to work with the data. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the debate that exists between us, we still have the position that Congressman Bence Tuzson has expressed here in a rather plastic way that, as has been the case so far, the debate on requests for information in the future, so the fundamental question is whether or not the public body is obliged to issue the data, or whether or not the request for data needs to be complied with, if the data seeker feels that his right to information of general interest is limited, then, of course, he can go to court or use the intervention or procedure of the data protection office before him. Therefore, it cannot be resolved differently, it is a conflict that can always cause disputes, and the existing rules for this dispute will be extended by this law, as it will provide a new remedy for the confidentiality process or another effective remedy for the citizen's access to the data of the public interest that he really deserves. Therefore, there is no change in the basic order, according to the basic order, data of general interest must be provided, but the production of this, the fulfilment of the public interest data request, entails administrative costs, some of which this proposal seeks to reimburse, as the data seeker has already had to pay part of. And obviously there will never be a demand for data in the public interest in which the request for data is relatively simple to be met, and they would ask for money. So if, for example, we have the data electronically, we will not be asked for compensation electronically. The bill empowers the government to bring such a government decree, which determines these costs, so the data seeker will not be in a position not to know what costs can be imposed against it. This government decree, as Bence Tuzson said, can be subject to the control of the Constitutional Court, and, of course, the application of this Government Decree can also give rise to a court appeal, judicial control or the intervention of the Data Protection Authority. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate on the bill, I would once again like to refer to the fact that, under our basic law, laws and regulations must be presumed to serve a moral purpose in good faith and in good faith and in good sense - I ask you to take this into account. I was not shaken by the debate that this bill was for moral purposes, and the government was basically in good faith when it presented the bill to you. Please support the bill. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-244	Thank you, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on 6 July. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the United Nations Children's Fund on the proposal for an agreement to establish a Global Service Centre for the United Nations Children's Fund will follow. The submission was made in T/5348. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-06-30-245	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, UNICEF, the United Nations Children's Fund, has decided to set up a global service centre out of the New York Centre to increase its efficiency. The United Nations Children's Fund provides the necessary funding for international programmes through voluntary contributions from governments, donations from companies and individuals, and does not benefit from the UN budget. In addition to the Philippines, Kenya, Czech Republic, Denmark, Malaysia, Hungary was included in the narrow list of possible sites selected on the basis of UNICEF's multi-annual investigations. In October 2014, the United Nations Children's Fund delegation arrived in Budapest for preliminary on-the-spot information regarding the restricted tender for the establishment of the Centre. As a result of the discussions between the Hungarian party and UNICEF, the Hungarian government sent the full application paper to the UN Children's Fund last December. In February 2015, Anthony Lake, Executive Director of UNICEF, chose Hungary as the location of the global service centre of all applicants, assessing the material submitted by Hungary and bearing in mind the comparative advantages of the country. The centre will start operations in Budapest from the second half of 2015 with 350 people expected. The establishment of the centre in Budapest contributes to the creation of new jobs, enabling qualified professionals who speak foreign languages to find their place in a domestic environment, as well as the possibility of providing domestic suppliers based on the service centre, primarily HR, financial and IT services. Following UNICEF's decision, the government initiated negotiations with UNICEF to establish an agreement on the establishment of the centre in Budapest. The agreement between the two parties consists of 17 articles and includes the government's commitments to set up the centre, which, like international organisations already operating in Budapest and in accordance with EU legislation, ensure the so-called functional privileges and immunities of UNICEF global service centre and its international officials relating to the Centre's activities, as well as the exemption from import and export restrictions and the reimbursement of VAT and all operating costs for at least 15 years. The Agreement was signed by the Parties on 15 June 2015 in New York, for which the mandate was granted by the Government at 1380/2015. It was given by Decision No. As regards the content of the agreement, CXXX of 2010 on legislation. It contains rules on legislative matters under the law, and, subject to Act L of 2005, on the procedure relating to international treaties, the Parliament authorises the recognition of the mandatory scope of the agreement and is published with the law. The agreement is in line with the government's declared goal, i.e. attracting regional representations and service centres of international organisations to Hungary, and building Budapest as a humanitarian background centre. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-30-246	Thank you very much, Secretary Mikola. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-06-30-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You have told me everything there is to know about this law. The law on the publication of this law and the publication of the agreement may add that the terminology of this law and the provisions contained therein are in line with the text of the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations in New York dated 13 February 1946 and published by Decree-Law No 15 of 1957 - perhaps that much can be added. [[20.30]] Again, just as there has been a law on such publication today, it is a technical step on the part of the Parliament. The Fidesz faction supports the bill. Thank you. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-248	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-30-249	Thank you, Mr. President. It is truly a pleasure to discuss such a proposal in the Hungarian Parliament - although there are many such initiatives and contracts for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! Well, I don't necessarily mean something that requires a change of law, because there are a lot of contracts in foreign affairs that don't require a separate parliamentary decision or a legislative amendment. I am thinking, for example, of the nuclear cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia, which, after several years of preparation, may be able to gain support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and could provide Hungarian intellectual exports with an area in Saudi Arabia. But before the President realizes that I am not talking about the proposal, I will immediately come to the T/5348 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the United Nations Children's Fund on the establishment of the Global Service Centre for the United Nations Children's Fund. Bill No. 1. It is very nice that the Orbán government takes advantage of such opportunities as the United Nations Children's Fund has made a decision to choose Hungary as the location of the global service centre. This, of course, was preceded by a proposal, as Mr Secretary said, and this is a practical use of the beauty and other gifts of the capital. I do not know where this UNICEF centre will be within Budapest, but I would be interested in this almost early hour where it may be located if we think about it. As with international organisations established in Hungary, the agreement regulates in detail the privileges, immunities and facilities of UNICEF, its officials and experts, as well as the facilitations provided by Hungary. The Centre and its assigned UNICEF staff shall receive at least the same favourable treatment as other intergovernmental or international organisations or UN agencies, funds or programmes present in the territory of the country. For exactly 15 years or at least 15 years from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, Hungary shall grant UNICEF free of charge the use and possession of premises and the use of equipment, office furniture and other equipment deemed necessary by the Parties for the operation of the Centre. The details of these are contained in a separate supplementary agreement between the representatives of the parties, which cannot be considered as part of the international treaty, but is therefore a rather significant cost commitment. I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State how it is estimated that this building, let's say not its building value, but the public services, energy, lighting, utilities, is estimated at the cost the Hungarian budget will contribute annually to the operation of UNICEF, or whether there is such a need or such a commitment to ensure this in this way without remuneration. The staff of the Centre shall also enjoy diplomatic privileges, immunities, rights and facilitations of UNICEF and its staff in accordance with international treaties. UNICEF officials and other UNICEF workers subject to this scheme shall be exempt from payment of compulsory contributions or any other compulsory contributions on their territory. I think it's a normal text of agreement. My question is that if you become a Hungarian citizen and a Hungarian employee of this UNICEF centre, you will also be subject to these international preferences, because if that is the case, I think there will be a great deal of trouble to work in UNICEF. UNICEF's property, funds and assets held by any person are also exempt from any form of jurisdiction in Hungary, unless, in some cases, the organisation expressly renounced them by not including enforcement acts. The property, funds and assets of UNICEF shall be exempt from any other manifestation of a search, seizure, confiscation, expropriation or enforcement, administrative, judicial or legislative obligation. I think this is absolutely appropriate. So this means that the United Nations, as an autonomous, let us say, is responsible for all material aspects of UNICEF's operation. The organisation's file and, in general, the documents relating to it or managed by it, wherever they may be, shall be inviolable. I believe that this is entirely appropriate and it is considered a success that, through the activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Department, this contract has been concluded, and they have even noticed that there is such a tender. Our diplomats in New York may have played a part in this; I would also ask the Secretary of State who personally noticed this or who was involved in this, because I believe that he deserves at least one thank here in Parliament, if he has been active in this. At the same time, in addition to saying that the MSZP faction supports the proposal to create the Global Service Centre of the United Nations Children's Fund in Budapest, including the adoption of this bill, I must also say that we trust that the international organisation's experience, generally known how to provide children, will also allow the establishment of its headquarters in Budapest to highlight, unfortunately, the increasingly serious problems of child poverty in Hungary and to remedy it in the form of best practices, if not material ones, but the methods, prevention and catching up, might be able to pass on good experiences to combat child poverty in Hungary's unfortunately wider population. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-30-250	Thank you, Congressman István Józsa. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-06-30-251	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The reason for setting up the Global Service Centre of the United Nations Children's Fund in Budapest was the outsourcing of all the tasks supporting the efficiency of UNICEF and reducing administrative costs from the New York Centre. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now allow me a few words about UNICEF in general. UNICEF is an English abbreviation for the United Nations' international child emergency assistance. This fund was established by the UN General Assembly in 1946 in order to help children in Europe after World War II who were freezing, starving and sick, who had to survive the horrors of war, bombings, multiple passes of fronts. [[20.40]] Today, this is a specialized organization of the United Nations. UNICEF was recognised as a Nobel Peace Prize in 1965. UNICEF is a development organisation with child protection programmes in more than 150 countries around the world. They are financed exclusively by voluntary contributions and donations, i.e. they do not benefit from the UN budget. UNICEF's annual budget exceeds 2.5 billion dollars, spending more than 80 percent of its revenue directly on its children's programmes. About half of the organisation's expenditure is spent on education and child protection and child rights programmes. Since the existence of UNICEF, it has saved more children's lives than any other humanitarian organisation in the world. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the Philippines, Kenya, the Czech Republic and Malaysia, Hungary also applied for the project, for which Hungary negotiated with UNICEF in October 2014 and sent its full application file to UNICEF in December of the same year after the negotiations. In February 2015, Anthony Lake, Executive Director of the United Nations Children's Fund, evaluated the material submitted by Hungary and took account of the comparative advantages of the country, selected Hungary and our country as the location of the global service centre. Under this decision, the Hungarian Government initiated negotiations with UNICEF to establish an agreement on the establishment of the centre in Budapest. The agreement between the two parties includes the government's commitments to set up the Centre, such as the free placement of UNICEF's Hungarian Commission in the global service centre and the provision of all operating costs, as well as privileges and exemptions for UNICEF and its officials. The agreement was signed in English and Hungarian. The agreement consists of 17 articles and, like international organisations established in Hungary, includes in detail the privileges and immunities of UNICEF, its officials and experts, as well as the facilitations provided by Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now very briefly about articles one. Article I of the Agreement contains definitions of the frequently used concepts contained therein. Annex II to the Agreement shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Agreement. This article provides for a general framework for cooperation between UNICEF and Hungary, stating that the centre in Hungary and its assigned UNICEF staff will receive at least the same favourable treatment as other intergovernmental or international organisations or UN agencies present in Hungary. Annex III to the Agreement shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Agreement. This article contains the contribution of our country to the location of the centre in Hungary. Hungary shall grant UNICEF free of charge for at least 15 years from the date of entry into force of the Agreement to those localities the use and possession and the use of equipment, office furniture and other equipment deemed necessary by the parties for the operation of the Centre. The details of this are set out in a separate agreement between the representatives of the parties, which cannot be regarded as an international treaty. In addition to what is stated above, the Government shall provide UNICEF, as requested by the Director of the Centre, with the necessary public services for working and, inter alia, electricity and water services, waste water supply, fire protection, waste transport and gas supply, as provided for in a separate agreement between the representatives of the Parties. Annex IV is amended as follows: Article 2a provides for the staff of the Centre. Article V of the Agreement contains general provisions on the privileges, immunities, rights and facilitations of UNICEF and its staff. The Agreement shall be drawn up in accordance with Annex VI to this Agreement. It shall contain in detail the exemptions for the property, funds and assets of UNICEF. The property, funds and assets of UNICEF shall be exempt from any form of search, claim, confiscation, expropriation or enforcement, administrative, judicial or legislative constraints. Annex VII to the Agreement shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Agreement. Article VIII contains the facilitations for communications; Rule IX on UNICEF officials; and Article IX on UNICEF officials; and Article IX on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials on UNICEF officials; Article IX on UNICEF officials on UNICEF officials and UNICEF officials on UNICEF officials Article 4a provides for locally contracted hourly staff. Article X of the Agreement contains provisions on the social security and pension scheme set up by the United Nations and lays down, inter alia, that those subject to this scheme are exempt from payment of compulsory contributions or any other compulsory contributions. Annex XI to the Agreement shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Agreement. Article 12 shall contain the privileges and immunities applicable to seconded experts; Article 1 provides for notification of changes in the names and status of UNICEF officials. The Agreement shall be drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of the Agreement. Article 14 provides for the rules for waivers; Article 15 of the Agreement contains provisions on travel documents; Article XV of the Agreement is amended as follows: Article 16 shall apply to the Additional Agreement; whereas Article XVI shall apply to the Additional Agreement. Article 4a to settle disputes. Article 17 of the Agreement and its final article contains the final provisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support the T/5348 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the United Nations Children's Fund on the establishment of the Global Service Centre for the United Nations Children's Fund. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-252	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-30-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, our faction will support the bill between the Government of Hungary and the United Nations Children's Fund to announce an agreement on the establishment of a Global Service Centre for the United Nations Children's Fund. We believe that if such a global service centre is established in Hungary, it is likely to increase Hungary's prestige and recognition at international level, at diplomatic level. I would like to say a few things to the previous speeches. First of all, I would say to István Józsa: that someone has discovered this proposal, because I think no one can be praised for it, because Mr. Secretary of State said in his expozee that it was an invitational tender, so no one had to notice it, and we were drawn to the fact that we were applying. So we do not have to praise anyone so much, however, we can safely say that Hungarian diplomacy leaves something to be desired. Rather, we should look at how many applications we miss and how many opportunities we miss because the right people don't see it. The other is that I hope it will not be as we have heard in my fellow Member Vejkey's speech and that we will not give them complete settlements, however much we agree with UNICEF's ambitions, we will not give them complete settlements. I'm guessing it was a slip of the tongue, and he didn't mean rooms, he meant rooms. The difference is one word, but there's quite a difference in content. [[20.50]] My fellow Member preceded me with one question because I wanted to ask it too - because I think that if this service centre stood up in the second half of 2015, I would also suggest that the location is already there - I would also be interested in where this service centre will be, and I would also like to know where it will be, because we are talking about 350 staff, that it will have more facilities. In connection with 350 people, it has been mentioned that professionals with Hungarian language knowledge and international experience will be given the opportunity not to have to try their luck abroad, but to use their talents and knowledge in Hungary, their home country and their own country. My question is how much of these 350 people will become Hungarian workers in proportion. It is clear to me that even the UN will delegate experts, experts and leaders from New York, but how much of this will become Hungarian? And what are the areas of expertise that can be applied for in the first place, or the representatives of which field might they hope to gain admission to this centre? I also think - because the establishment of this service centre is close enough - that the applications may have been launched, or I do not know when these applications will start. It's just an indication for these professionals: when can they watch the applications, when can they apply, when can they compete for these posts? As I have already said, I really think that Hungary's prestige is raised by the establishment of such a service centre and I know very well what my fellow Member Vejkey has outlined very well on the history of UNICEF - what the original purpose of the organization was and how it has changed and how it has been transformed since then. I am also well aware that they are represented in several countries, so they also have representation in Hungary, but if a service centre moves to one country - of course it was said that we won the tender because our terms gave us the opportunity to do so. Now the question is what these conditions were, what formed the basis for us to win this. Is it the capabilities of our capital, the infrastructure, or even the fact that we are in the middle of Europe, but we are close to the region that is most popular and supported by UNICEF? So Hungary is a location that can satisfy all needs, if we look at it globally, it is also close to the most needy children on Earth, but it is not so far from European civilisation, so it can provide the right services. I started to say that we know very well that UNICEF also has a headquarters in Hungary, so now the service centre is also here. It is possible to envelop that if a global service centre moves to a given country, the local service of UNICEF may also be strengthened in that country. Unfortunately, I have to experience as a child protection specialist that UNICEF would have a lot of work to do in Hungary too, because we know very well that its primary objectives include protecting the rights of children, protecting the respect and enforcement of children's rights, protecting children in general, whether from a health or mental point of view, and knowing very well - especially in recent times - that they are often damaged in Hungary, and very often not only because of the shortcomings of Hungarian legal order and Hungarian legislation, but also because of the shortcomings of the circumstances and the system in many cases. Can we expect, if the activities of UNICEF in Hungary are strengthened, that their activities will be exhausted not only by supporting certain child protection programmes and projects, but also by highlighting the difficulties of the Hungarian child protection, the causes of the Hungarian child fates, and the issues of certain situations of life and of the children's situation in certain complete areas, as well as the reasons for that? And if that is the case, can we possibly use it, can we use it from a professional point of view and for the protection of children in Hungary and the rights of children in Hungary? I think it might be beneficial for us. This is, of course, also a question of government attitudes and state attitudes as to how a criticism is taken and how it will take it, whether it considers it constructive criticism, and whether it is trying to take steps to build a protocol, a system to eliminate these problems, and to eliminate these very serious situations, even on the basis of the guidelines provided. I can think of the state of the child protection warning system in Hungary, or even the state of jeopardy of minors, for which we are experiencing many examples, we are also experiencing an outrageous example. Or you might think that child deprivation, as such, in Hungary - of course, I know that there is no system where 100% can be eliminated, but we strive to make it as low as possible to apply in the country. So can we expect that, once such an important international organisation is the head office of a global service provider in Hungary, Hungary will focus on children's protection and children's rights or even children's mental and health, they will focus on Hungary? Because the prestige of an international organization doesn't matter that if it's already setting up a service centre in the country, it's exactly what it's fighting for in that country that they're in exactly what state they're in. If they are in a bad condition, the bad light on them, or perhaps the good light on them is that they can illuminate these problems even in the country in which they are installing this center. Although I know or suspect that these aspects were not relevant in the evaluation of the proposal, but the aspects already stated in my speech - so I am thinking mainly about the infrastructure state of our capital city or the geographical location of Hungary - but I also think that these are important aspects, and it is also important to take care of this. I would even say that by preventing the establishment of a service centre, we can even provide answers to certain issues before the issue is born, and we can also propose solutions to certain issues, that these serious and unsustainable conditions, which mean child endangerment and damage to children's rights, should not remain, should be limited to the minimum, and not only by the fact that the service centre is operating here in the country, but also by setting an example for the world, and if such a proposal were to happen, we could be proud to start. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-30-254	Thank you, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I give the floor to notary Erzsébet Schmuck, who gives the opinion of the May Other Politics.
u2015-06-30-255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my brief comment, the LMP welcomes the fact that UNICEF has also chosen Hungary as the seat of its headquarters after the High Commissioner for Refugees and the Food and Agriculture Organisation. It is to be praised that the global service centre of UNICEF has been acquired by Budapest from several competing capitals. For the sake of the facts, let us add that the service centre will in future perform some administrative and operational support functions for the UN Children's Fund. The operating and security costs of the service centre are provided by the Hungarian government. Unfortunately, the agreement does not mention the extent to which this is planned to be an annual amount; perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to respond to this. It is clear, however, that the low costs in acquiring the centre have played a crucial role in quoting the UNICEF Communication: . In its decision to support UNICEF Hungary, relatively low costs, highly qualified labour force and good infrastructure have proved to be a key factor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[21.00]] It was therefore a key factor in the decision to find highly qualified workers cheaply in Hungary. This is obvious to everyone at international level. Of course, this LMP is not happy, because we want the price of skilled workers to be much higher in Hungary. However, LMP will support the bill, and thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-30-256	Thank you, Madam Secretary, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches and now the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2015-06-30-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I would like to say to my fellow Member, who is very familiar with child protection, that the invitation to an invitation is the result of a very serious diplomatic work. So, I don't want to question your own knowledge of the field, but don't question any other territorial skills. Getting on the map is a pretty substantial preparatory work. That's what I was trying to say. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would also like to highlight the additional positive effects of the UNICEF centre on Budapest. UNICEF is perhaps the most respected organization of the United Nations, because it is a myth; everyone remembers it as it was said that it has helped to save tens of thousands of children in Europe since 46. I don't want to hear picnic comments about my age, but in the '60s, I saw UNICEF subtitled, highly prized cans that came to Hungary in post-war times, and were preserved in families not because of their utility value, but because of the positive memory. So the fact that the service centre of such a highly accepted organisation is placed in Budapest also generates positive side effects, from which the capital will have many positive effects, either through conference tourism or by visiting acquaintances, relatives and professionals in Budapest. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-30-258	Good evening. We will continue our work by asking if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2015-06-30-259	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much, everyone who has spoken up and given your signal, for your support. I would like to reply briefly to some of the questions raised. Yes, UNICEF is a prestigious institution, and many people in Hungary know it. This also played a role in the selection, because when the delegation led by Anthony Lake came to Hungary, they came here four or five times, surprised that almost everyone, from children to adults, knew UNICEF. In Hungary, this organization has great prestige and visibility. It also played a role in Hungary's success that this is the third major organization coming to Hungary. The FAO, though, is a specialized organisation for agriculture, food safety and agriculture for the United Nations, operating very successfully in Hungary. The UNHCR, the UN Human Rights Organisation, has also been very successful here, proving that the UN organisation is in the right place, and they hope that the UNICEF service centre will also have such a successful operation over the next 15 years. Then, every 10 years, you'll be able to extend your stay by another 10 years. By the way, it was a selection contest, but there were 24 interested parties when I joined it and there were 5-6 candidates at the end. We had the hardest thing to do with Prague, because in Prague, too, UNICEF is well-known, appreciated and could have provided very good conditions for the operation of the organization. The seat of the service centre shall be set out in Annex VII. District 16 Wesselényi Street, building number 16, Central Udvar Office Building, this is the name of this large office centre, they will rent 6,000 square meters in this building. During the first period, and this is the first two years, 350 people will be employed, and in two years they plan to increase the number of people employed to 500. They are expanding, which is why the lease, which is 6,000 square meters, is designed within the building so that it can be increased to about 9,000 square meters in the coming years. According to our calculations and preliminary agreements, 80-85 percent of employees will be Hungarian citizens. The others are likely to be selected by UNICEF from the United States and other European countries. I know, for example, that they're coming here from Geneva, Switzerland, but we're going to do the interviews together. Although they appoint the company, they will appoint a Hungarian HR company, and we will conduct the interviews together. There is a tremendous strain, indeed - I say to the Member - because it is a highly prestigious institution, with good wages, according to our calculations and information. And, of course, you also need to know that the person who will work there belongs, for example, to the United Nations Single Pension Fund, because his employer will be the United Nations itself. We all know that this has many advantages. Cheap labour has not been mentioned in the selection, because these workers will receive good salaries here in Budapest, the amount of international salaries for their work. In particular, IT experts, economists, and as I emphasized in the brief introduction, they will be looking for language-speaking staff. All I can tell you is that I have about 300 resumes at the moment, and I know that they're not only with me to this extent, but also with the leaders of Emmi and others. Indeed, there is a great deal of interest in job applications. I can't give you an exact amount of money to build this place, because we're just making plans. We first had to sign the so-called host country agreement, the agreement of the host state in New York. I was out there two weeks ago, Anthony Lake and I signed this agreement; then this parliamentary ratification is necessary in order for us to actually make a budget, which I can announce here. We are talking about a hundred million in the next 15 years, which will cost Hungary this new service centre. Since there has been a question and I am pleased with this question, I would like to say that many people have contributed to this success. First, I would like to mention the two ambassadors who were interested in this process, Ambassador Csaba Kőrösi, Ambassador of New York, and Katalin Bogyay, our new ambassador in New York. But I also have to mention the other wallets, because, for example, we worked with Emmi, the leaders of Emmi, in the process of developing the application, they supported us with a lot of professional ammunition in this. I would also like to highlight the contribution of the UNICEF Hungarian Commission. We are talking about an organisation of 15 people, the leader of which is Mrs Danks Emese, who has been very intensely involved and has helped us in this process to get this far. It was very interesting, and I would like to say that the UNICEF delegation in New York has been here four or five times, and Anthony Lake, their number one leader, has also been here in Hungary on two occasions. They were widely informed, they went to NGOs and foundations, and they stressed that one of the very important attractions in Hungary is that everyone supports UNICEF, regardless of party affiliation or denomination. And they thought it was a great deal of value. What was said during the reflection, and what we were very pleased about, of course, was that Hungary's geopolitical situation was also good, and they looked at the schools and accommodation opportunities for foreign employees; they found this ideal and good. In Hungary, child welfare measures and children's rights were found to be good. [[21.10]] Of course, this must be interpreted as UNICEF now dealing with the main problem, 42 million orphan children, primarily, so if you look at the international comparison, let us say, the Hungarian problems, you will be dwarfed by what is in Iraq or Syria or even in sub-Saharan areas. Public security was highly appreciated among the aspects of selection, which they find good in Hungary; and I have mentioned that schools, as well as the educational opportunities of the children of the staff, have been found to be excellent here. I think that in the speeches the answer has actually been given to everything else, and I thank you very much for your support. Of course, we consider it important that Parliament continues to enjoy its support. It's very interesting that Anthony Lake, director of UNICEF in New York, asked me to call you when the debate was over. They are very much involved in this case, because they are very curious about whether the UNICEF case has broad political support, because, as I said, they are going to take the first step now, and they are going to continue to build, increase numbers, and need new areas. UNICEF will be a great attraction, many will come here, of course there will be conferences, there will be a rather lively professional, public and scientific activity surrounding the rise of UNICEF here. So, if I may, I will inform Mr Anthony Lake that Parliament supports him, has questions, was an interested debate, but political support, if this is the end of this legislative proposal, will be the case. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-30-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the National Assembly, LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, Parliament has almost discussed the national climate change strategy, but the government has postponed it and I understand that the results of the Paris climate summit should be expected or expected. As is known, at the climate summit to be held in Paris between 30 November and 21 December, the United Nations Member States intend to agree on a limit on greenhouse gas emissions to ensure that the average temperature of the Earth's climate is not more than two degrees Celsius higher than before the industrial revolution. The Paris commitments will cover the period after 2020. Now the President of the United States of America is ringing the alarm bell, which is justified by the report of EPA, the U.S. Environmental Agency. According to President Barack Obama, time is running out to deal with the irreversible consequences of climate change, and extreme weather and rising sea levels pose a national security threat because they increase the risk of global instability and conflict. According to the EPA prognosis, which predicts many billions of dollars in disasters, by the end of the century, the environmental burden in America could result in 69 thousand deaths a year if the country does not take rapid and significant steps to curb global warming. There is now plenty of evidence that there is no place to delay the implementation of climate change tasks. These tasks are grouped into four groups. 1. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions that trigger climate change, which can be achieved by reducing the consumption of fossil fuels in absolute terms so that the overall structure of production and consumption changes in a less material and energy-intensive direction. 2. Promoting social adaptation to climate change that has already occurred in such a way that the use of materials and energy in this area does not cross the emission reduction targets. 3. Enhance environmental awareness of climate change in society by transferring knowledge of a good, sustainable lifestyle. And Group 4: integrating climate change into decision-making, sectoral policies, strategies, development plans and development themselves. Besides, you can't really experience this here in Hungary either. Hungary is a small player in the community of countries responsible for global emissions, but it is a major sufferer of climate change. In Hungary, temperatures increase above global warming averages, and in spite of the small geographical extent of the country, there are extremely different phenomena in different landscapes, which are mainly reflected in precipitation distribution. In Hungary, there is a current climate change strategy up to 2025, but which needs to be revised, and whose implementation is characterised by the same reluctance that exists in the international arena. The Parliament adopted the strategy in 2008, which provided for the development of national climate change programmes and annual reports to Parliament for two years. By contrast, so far only the programme for 2009-2010, which should have been reported in 2011. The report was finally drawn up in 2012 and was only discussed in 2013 by the Parliament. There's no new program. Dear Parliament, Is the deferral justified? Do we have to wait for the results of Paris? The future Paris decision may affect the first of the four tasks assigned, the level of greenhouse gas emissions. While this may affect our country for the first time in the climate policy era since 1990 with a real emission reduction task, this does not, in any way, affect urgent action in the field of environmental awareness, adaptation and good decision making. Reasonable management of water resources and climate events, improving the extent of natural habitats, protecting biodiversity, rehabilitating wetlands, micro-climate and coal-absorption foresting, arable agriculture... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] - I only have two lines left, Mr. President. [[For signal:]] -... to reduce the dominance of arable agriculture, to switch to organic farming, measures to improve the prevention of human health damage cannot be postponed, pending emission targets. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-30-262	Thank you very much. I'd like you to write two short lines next time. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, Mr President Novak has applied for a post-meeting speech, Mr Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-30-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I can read the title of my speech after the agenda, which can also be found on the Parliament's website, as it is registered. The Supreme Court orders in 2010 that Jobbik should not be silenced because of the use of the word "Gypsy Crime," which is also required to be communicated by public media. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Indeed, it did, and it was not so surprising, as the National Election Committee also stated in the first instance in this case 6:2 ratio, relatively unanimously, that Jobbik's advertisements using the term "Gypsy Crime" do not go beyond...
u2015-06-30-264	Congressman, I would like to warn you that you have used an offensive term for a group. The Act on Parliament 48. In accordance with § (1) of the Act, I hereby dismiss you, and at the same time warn you that if you use another offensive term, I will withdraw the word from you. You understand what I'm saying. Here you go.
u2015-06-30-265	Mr. President, I'm presenting the order of the Supreme Court...
u2015-06-30-266	Go on, don't override the president's activities, because it's not even with the house rules...
u2015-06-30-267	Don't interrupt me. I'm going to proceed exactly. Don't keep interrupting me, please, I'll get that warrant exactly...
u2015-06-30-268	I ask you not to criticize the President's activities, to continue with what he has to say.
u2015-06-30-269	I'm not judging you. I'm not judging you. I'm just asking.
u2015-06-30-270	I assume you understand what I'm saying. Continue your speech.
u2015-06-30-271	I understand, and I hope that you understand the final order of the Supreme Court, and I think that we are not a state here in the state, this is not László Kövér's or anyone else's kingship, so the law must be observed. The Supreme Court held that the restriction of expression was illegal if the word "gypsy crime" was not allowed to be said.
u2015-06-30-272	Mr. Congressman, you have repeatedly used an offensive term...
u2015-06-30-273	I didn't use an offensive term. You're studying the Supreme Court order.
u2015-06-30-274	... therefore, the Act on Parliament is 48. In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, I withdraw the floor from you. [[He's shutting down the microphone of the Novak First. Forebod Novak: This is completely against the law!]] I'm going to withdraw you from the floor. (He's turning off the microphone of the Novák predecessor. It's completely against the law!) Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the fourth extraordinary session of the summer session will take place on Friday, 3 July. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 9:20 p.m.]]
