u2015-05-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 26th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that József Attila Móring and Ádám Mirkóczki will be notaries of this meeting for my help. I welcome all those who are monitoring our debate today. Ladies and gentlemen, XLIII of 1996 on professional relations By law, on the 4th of May, St. Florian's Day, we salute all volunteers and professional firefighters. The book of the Hungarian Fire Department published in 1925 describes the essence of the fire-fighting profession as: And in the dark silent night / - Where everything sits still in tears - / The alarm bell is ringing in it: / Who is it, in whom is all hope? Who is it who bravely dares to enter the sea of flame? Always for someone else, always for someone else, / not for your property. / Stands on the edge of the flame grave, / and is ready to bury himself in it. / The fireman! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Parliament, Serving the interest of the community unselfishly is the most noble profession, especially if its fulfillment involves risking the individual's own life. The essence of the fire-fighting profession is fulfilled in exceptional human virtues that are essential in the fight against the elements that threaten human life, public and citizens' property. These virtues - self-sacrifice, courageous, disciplined duty, and the aid of fellow humans - were embodied in the medieval cult of St. Florian. Legend has it that Flórian, who is the III. In the second half of the century C.E., he was the commander of a Roman fortress, and he stopped the fire that was devastating in the fortress from almost a hopeless situation. The soldiers rescued from the fire death attributed their salvation to the superhuman, divine power of Floran. His death was also caused by his sacrifice and humanity. At the time of the Christian persecution, he stood by his fellows in prison and declared himself a Christian, for which he also committed martyrdom. The cult of St. Florian comes from a time when man was still completely vulnerable to destructive elements. In contrast to disasters, which, together with the modernization of the age, have increased with new threats, Hungary's population can rely on the professional and voluntary Hungarian fire department today, in addition to the prayers to St. Florian. The fire department is celebrating its 145th anniversary this year. Count Ödön Széchenyi established the first voluntary fire department, the first professional fire department in Budapest in 1870. Today, the National Assembly of Hungary expresses its respect and thanks to all Hungarian firefighters who deserve the respect of our society every day of the year for their service. Dear Parliament, We will start our work today with speeches before the agenda, then from noon to 2:30, then we will have an hour of immediate questions and answers from about 1:30 to 3:30, and we will finish the Parliament's work with speeches after the agenda. As a result, István Simicskó, on behalf of KDNP, was the first to apply for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 May 1875 the Hungarian Athletic Club organized the first outdoor sports competition on the continent in Budapest. This is what the first Orbán government announced in its decision of 2 May 2000, so we have been celebrating the Hungarian sports day on 6 May of every year since then. I must say that we have reason to do so year after year, because our athletes always make sure that this holiday is not just a formality, but it is filled with content. It's enough to think of the world sensation that happened less than a week ago, and we've been playing hockey after 2008 and we're back to the best after 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, The success of our competition sport will support our national self-esteem, increasing the visibility and attractiveness of the country. With 168 Olympic gold coins, 148 silver coins, 170 bronze coins, Hungary is ranked 8th on the list of over 200 nations in the world ranking, and if we look at this in proportion to the number of souls, we are in second place. It's a huge achievement for such a small country. We are proud of our athletes, that Hungarian sports are being made part of the universal Hungarian culture. In addition to our well-known Nobel Prize winner scientists on international scenes, the country's outstanding sports are mentioned as valuable. Thanks to all Hungarian athletes and professionals. I think I am not exaggerating when I say that today, the world's most well-known Hungarian man is Ferenc Puskás, an excellent player of the Golden Team. I also think it is important to emphasise that the outstanding results, at the same time, focus on sport, support the spread of a culture of regular physical activity, and increase the number of young people who want to play sports. I would like to remind you that, thanks to the work of recent years, only 5 percent of the adult Hungarian population played sports in 2010, this figure is now 15 percent. We saw a record number of entries at the last running competition in Budapest, with more than 25,000 runners running through the streets of Budapest. It's obviously a pleasure for us, even for the car society, I have to say. Sport is a unique resource, since it can strengthen national identity, bring together people of different world views and minds. I think that Hungarian is an important language, we all like it, we all speak it. Another common language is sport. We Hungarians are successful in sport, and I have to say that, given international examples, sport is a universal language in the world today, and we want to strengthen it further. We set a threefold target system in the field of Hungarian sports. One of our goals is for all Hungarian children to play sports. To this end, we have, among other things, launched a successful programme. I have to say, we are now taking part in the seventh place, and with the participation of thousands of children, the sport should be yours! It's a program. This is a specific, special sport recruitment for sports in order to increase the supply base. Our aim is to increase the number of clubs and associations to half a million, which now recruits between 330 and 340 thousand people, and to fill clubs and associations with children who have proven to be athletes, precisely so that they can cultivate sport at the highest possible level and as widely as possible. Our other great goal is to create sports facilities, so that our children and young people can play sports under cultural conditions. The third is to bring as many sports competitions as possible to Hungary. This is what we have been trying to do in recent years. We have doubled, tripled the number of sports competitions, the number of international competitions, so that Hungary can show that it is able to organize, create, operate and perform sporting events and sports competitions. We support the sixteen flagship sports to a significant extent, the sports designated by the MOB, Olympic sports, where the number of sportsmen of the age group has increased by about 20 percent in recent years and the number of coaches has increased by 14 percent. It is very important that the number of member organisations, associations, has also increased by about 5%. Obviously, that would be a very big goal, but we can't put that aside, just like in the case of German society, where 30 percent of German society has some kind of sports union membership. This is a huge thing; I think this is the right way, this is the right way. We know that sport is also a specific key to the way society works. We would also like to build the sporting nation and the sports nation through it. When many people say sports skeptical people quote Winston Churchill as no sport, I would like to remind him that Winston Churchill was a young fencing champion and then served as a riding lieutenant in India. He was also passionate about riding and golfing in his old age. But by the way, the father of modern physics, Isaac Newton, was fond of showing his biceps in his old age, quoting his youthful boxing past, not to mention Plato, who was also a wrestling champion in his youth. So I think we're bound by historical ancestors. We know how powerful sports are. Congratulations once again to Hungarian sports on the day of Hungarian sports, to athletes, coaches, professionals, and I wish all of us many more Hungarian sports skiers. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches and the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[11.10]]
u2015-05-04-2	I'm asking if anyone on the government's side wants to answer. [[No signal.]] No, there's no such intention. Speaking before the next agenda, Mrs Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, asked for a fair wage for a decent job. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It must have been a big problem for the government to formulate their May 1 communication, which was then published with the title "The Fidesz represents the interests of hardworking people." No, it's not like that. In the whole sweaty announcement you've given us, it seems that you've fought superhumanly to try to make yourselves the government of hardworking people. I would like to point out that this experiment has not succeeded, because the truth is that the Fidesz-KDNP government has taxed the minimum wage, increased the burden on labour, frozen the public sector's wages and made parents with small children redundant. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are watching the nurses stand for a shamefully low salary, with superhuman performance, with small babies; you are watching as the daycare workers working with the smallest have to take two or three jobs in order to make a living at all. The Fidesz-KDNP also introduced a code of exploitation, which means that more work is needed today for less. In addition, you have reduced public work wages below the poverty line - and you then discuss the appreciation of hardworking people? Moreover, you have not undertaken to improve the situation of women. During their government, the pay gap between men and women has increased, but women with small children are also indebted to you one by one. Your taxes on getting women with small children kicked out, and to this day there are still 14 cradle seats for 100 children in this country. There is no possibility for Hungarian mothers to go back to work after birth. Less than 10 percent of women with children under 3 years of age work, but only 35 percent of women with children less than 6 years of age work in this country, and the trend is worsening. Yesterday, on Mother's Day, we presented the LMP 10-point package for mothers with small children. It is also your shame that you have not supported any of these things in the last year, and you have not let anything pass, even though it is in our mutual interest, in the interests of the country, and in the interests of the parties, that we should help the Hungarian mothers; you have not done so. But you are also indebted to every Hungarian earner under the average wage, because with the single-key tax you have punished them; I am talking about 2.5 million Hungarian citizens, this 2.5 million people, this 2.5 million workers, have been worse off by introducing a single-key tax. They can't even refer to the minimum wage increase, even though Secretary Czomba does a lot of things, but let's be clear here. What happened to the single-key tax was that two thirds of the increase was practically stolen by the state. After five years of Fidesz governance, those who bring home a minimum wage will not get more than 10 thousand forints; this is definitely an unworthy adjustment of this problem, which cannot be ignored. In this situation, they could take a logical step by introducing the multi-key tax system proposed by LMP. Now, what are you guys doing? They're gonna tell you that they're gonna cut the single-key tax from 16 to 15 percent. But what will be the result? The result will be that the person who earns 1 million HUF will receive a discount of 10 thousand HUF, and the minimum wage player will have what in his pocket? A thousand forints more. Where does all this lead? The country is breaking apart even more, richer, richer, poorer and poorer, increasing the distance between the rich and the poor; this is your great political innovation. Of course, the LMP rejects the failed Fidesz economic policy quartet. The most important thing to do is to eradicate the poverty of workers and to settle the situation of women in this country. We ask for a decent salary for decent work, and we demand respect for women in this country! We say that we need to introduce a multi-key tax, we say that the contributions should be reduced, so that we can at least raise the minimum wage to the minimum level of living - which I think would be the minimum - and work out a long-term wage catch programme with employers. That would be political innovation, that is what you should do. Moreover, it is not possible for the public sector to wait for seven years to pay. I have studied your new convergence programme and it is clear that it will not happen in 2016; this is totally unacceptable. The LMP staff's proposals against poverty will be discussed tomorrow by the committee responsible. Our demands are absolutely clear: we want a fair, multi-key tax system, raising the minimum wage at least to the minimum level of living and reducing the burden on work. We demand an extension of the family allowance and family tax allowance for children up to the age of 24 if they study in higher education. We expect you to take on the burden of families and help children with their higher education. We also demand a comprehensive wage increase for years in the public sector, comprehensively, for everyone. We also stand for the reduction of the burden on low-income start-ups; but we also think that women who want to start up their business after giving birth should not have to pay the entire social security bill at the same time. In addition, we demand a 5% reduction in VAT on basic locally produced foods. Tomorrow we'll find out how Fidesz feels about these questions. If they refuse to do so, they won't even issue a statement like this on May 1st next year!
u2015-05-04-4	[[For signal:]] On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Czomba wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I hope we agree that the most effective way to combat poverty is to provide people with work rather than aid. I think it is a foundation that should be borne in mind by all governments in the next period. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary has also achieved one of the best results in terms of employment in the European Union since 2010. For the first time in 23 years and a half ago, employment in Hungary exceeded the employment level of 4 million, and has been above it ever since. According to Eurostat's latest figures, the unemployment rate is 7.4 percent. Finally, we are not competing with Malta in the area of 26-27, but with this we know practically the unemployment rates of Sweden, Finland, Belgium and the Netherlands. Of course, another issue is that the employment level, let's say, is around 80% in Sweden, in Hungary it is 62-63 percent in the 20-64 age group, but this was 57 percent a few years ago. As far as the earnings are concerned, honourable Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that between 2010-14 the minimum wage has increased by 43 percent in Hungary, and this year I can also report the good news that, in the month of January-February, the real earnings have increased by 5 percent in Hungary, which was a long time ago. This is obviously due to the fact that the tax system is practically stable, which means that gross growth also appears as net growth, and because inflation is low, this means that we can buy more for it in real terms. Of course, those who are employed at minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage are obviously saying that this money is scarce, and I would like to add that they are right, but there are 250 thousand people working in Hungary on a minimum wage of scale and 500-520 thousand guaranteed minimum wages from employees over 4 million, so it is worth seeing how these data relate to each other. I've heard all kinds of things this weekend to get at least the minimum living wage, the minimum wage should be 200,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, The category of bigotry is the category of opposition, and a responsible government cannot afford it. You know what? That at the moment the minimum living is around HUF 88,000, and the minimum wage is around HUF 68 300 net. Do you know when the minimum wage was in Hungary? Never! Never. For the last time in 2002, during the first Orbán government, I would like to remind you that when the minimum wage suddenly rose from 25,000 to 50,000, we managed to raise it to 92%. Since then, the two socialist governments have taken this down to 72-70 percent, and we are now at a point where it has been rising ever since 2012, and now the minimum wage is at 78 percent. If we were to raise it, it would be a gross salary of 133 thousand HUF at the minimum wage. [[11.20]] Do you know what the result would be, honourable Member? Hundreds of thousands of people would be released in Hungary, precisely in the sectors where the problem is greatest: in trade - I do not continue - in the field of service. Once again, you can promise anything irresponsiblely, but the Hungarian government has a clear attitude on this. There is a legitimate need to increase wages, there is a legitimate need to increase minimum wages, but only in terms of performance, as much as the economy can produce. We have seen how credit can increase, and we have paid a heavy price for this in the period 2002-2010. With regard to the public sector, we also want to gradually, as the performance of the economy permits, and we have done so with teachers, law enforcement agencies, and we are going on this path. We ask patience from those who do not listen to politicians here in the first place, but want to earn more as ordinary people. The Hungarian government is planning to have as many people as possible to work and earn as much money as possible in terms of both minimum wages and average wages in the following year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise.]]
u2015-05-04-6	On behalf of Mr Tamás Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP, the next speech before the agenda was put forward:. At last look in the mirror. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-7	Dear Parliament, At the end of April, the brutal robbery in Kaposvár launched a huge outrage and debate in the country over the last few weeks. The people were outraged, the people working in the tramps and the shoppers were terrified, and in recent days, a civil disobedience movement began to tear the tint film off the shops. The government and Fidesz are washing their hands, pretending to have nothing to do with what happened. Last time, in order to avoid declaring their own responsibilities, the possibility of the death penalty was thrown out. But what else can we expect from the Prime Minister and the Party playing Russian roulette with this country? Confessing mistakes? The names of those responsible? Oh, please. Nothing's expensive for you, but you'll get away with it. But let's see how we got here. The distribution of tramps was clearly and proven by Fidesz party considerations in a corrupt manner, and the regulation itself did not take into account market and security aspects. The majority of the tramps do not work economically because of property regulation, the few square meters of suffini are closed for the whole day by hard-working small employees employed at the minimum wage, who have to work behind closed doors and sealed windows in inhumane conditions every day. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame!]] That is what your law and the associated concession contract say, however much you lie about this matter. Young people's smoking has not been reduced or even increased in recent years. The black economy, the cigarette smuggling, is in its prime. State tax revenues are falling sharply, domestic cigarette manufacturers and distributors are falling, the majority of kiosks and newsstands have been destroyed and closed. But the most serious question is: the unprecedented wave of crime has flooded the foiled and sealed transforms, only over 230 crashes have occurred in the last six months, which have eventually led to the tragic death of a 22-year-old girl in Kaposvár. Fellow Members! Now I ask you to look me in the eye: for you know perfectly well that this traff process was nothing more than to buy the local leaders of the Fidesz, their congressional delegates, to prepare for their own party power. All this is distributed in public money, in secret meetings, on a political basis, as was the case at Szekszárd. János Lázár is said by many, and apparently he himself believes that he will be the next Prime Minister after the overthrow of Viktor Orbán, not so long. I will speak to him now, though he is not here: Lord Lazarus, be a wise leader. First of all, we expect you to submit a signed law to the National Assembly with your own hands, in which you will abolish this traffic law as it is. Second, answer the question, as the spiritual father of the whole tobacco business, of how much responsibility you take. Are you willing to take responsibility voluntarily to reassure the country's public opinion? If so, how much do you take, how many months, how many years? And how much do the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP sitting behind you undertake, such as Attila Gelencsér, the Fidesz representative of Kaposvár, for pressing the "yes" buttons? And your spiritual coalition partner, Jobbik representatives, how much are you willing to press the "stay" button? [[Noise.]] My fellow members of the Government! You're acting like rats on a sinking ship in this case. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Don't rat!]] Instead of taking responsibility for what happened and changing it, they are now throwing in the huge rubber bone of the death penalty to hate the Hungarian, while they are not dealing with you. However, let this debate be held between you, Fidesz and KDNP. A faithful Christian, as Bence Rétvári said here in Parliament, cannot support the death penalty. In order for Viktor Orbán to be able to establish his position, we will provide assistance. We're gonna put a mirror on your desk so you can face your demons and not burn this country out of your own power interests before you're out of politics for good. [[Anita Heringes goes to the Prime Minister's table and returns to her place. Noise on the pro-government side.]] Don't worry, the mirror will wait for Prime Minister to finally find his job here. In case your leaders don't take responsibility, we're going to present today a bill that can end this trump run. Think carefully, ladies and gentlemen of the government, whether this is also voted against, because at the end of the day, people will say the verdict, and you are playing with their lives here every day. Have the courage to take responsibility. Have the courage to change. Thank you for listening.
u2015-05-04-8	On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-9	Mr President, Dear House, We have seen another shameful example of political demagoguery in the Hungarian Parliament. We have seen another shameful example here in this House of someone, the representative of the Socialists, who violates the rights of others, ignoring the grief and pain of others, using it to exploit their own short-term political goals. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame!]] Shame on you, Your Honour. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] What you've said here today is an outrage! What you have said here today is unworthy of the Hungarian Parliament, unworthy of the Hungarian constitutional traditions, unworthy of democracy. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Especially you, Laci!]] Ladies and gentlemen, To say that the Fidesz and the ruling coalition, with the law they created, have locked the low-money tagged associates in a small room, again, is a political demagogy. Give me one example, my fellow Member from Europe, where you serve smokers in trams, so let's say it's a 100-square-meter traff. A traffik, even by its name, is a small room where nothing else can be sold but tobacco products and some additional products. Of course they don't serve people who want to buy tobacco in hundreds of square meters! [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Calm down, we've been listening to this ignominious speech without yelling. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also included in the legislation currently in force that it is necessary to ensure that the tobacco operator does not have access to tobacco. It is not in the current legislation that it is to be fitted with a foil which has been used in a number of trade shops. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] At the same time, it is entirely legitimate that there is a legislative intention not to be able to see the tramps. We can give many examples of other areas where similar safety requirements are set. Come on, tell me, fellow Members, which bank is an acceptable procedure, let us say that the cashier is not protected in any way. There are, of course, jobs in Hungary where for security reasons the perception of the street must be limited. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] In this case, it is also a matter of young people and non-smokers not seeing the business, not seeing what is inside, not seeing the tobacco. Ladies and gentlemen, Statistics also include a significant reduction in the number of smokers in Hungary over the last five years, due to the comprehensive measures taken by the government, by about 20 percent since 2011. [[11.30]] What is this if it is not a result that confirms the amendment of the law to protect non-smokers and the government's support for a healthy lifestyle? [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Constant interruptions from the same place.]] Ladies and gentlemen, That's what we should be facing, that's what's real. You, Congressman, as much as you would like to drive a wedge between Minister János Lázár and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán [[Zoltán Lukács: God forbid!]] It's not gonna work. The fact that you are here talking about the next Prime Minister after the overthrow of Viktor Orbán, may be your desire, but I must reassure you that Fidesz is united, the Fidesz-KDNP's alliance is undisturbed. [[Márta Demeter: Small group or large group?]] And the government will do its job with the necessary strength, and it will continue to do its work for the three years ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, I also find it shameful that the representative of the socialists uses such sentences, that they behave like rats on a sinking ship. Shame on you, Congressman. Shame on you! [[There's a surge in the MSZP faction.]] Follow Minister Lazarus, follow Fidesz. A decent Democrat does not speak in the Hungarian Parliament. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Let me finish. I'm glad everyone's yelling like that and not letting me talk. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your help. Let me conclude by saying what we have said several times over the past period: we share the pain of those who bury their loved ones, and we will do everything we can to ensure that similar cases do not occur in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-10	Attila Petneházy, on behalf of Fidesz, spoke before the next agenda: he won in Huszártelep with the title common sense. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, I took the liberty of speaking about the Greek Catholic school of Soya Miklós Nyíregyháza. Well, the name giver, Miklós Soya, deserves a separate speech himself, but it may be enough to say in two sentences that the pastoral activity of the Gypsy community of the village Miklós Saya Hodász is so exemplary that it may be called a pioneering activity. And I must add that when the ÁVH wanted to reward him for this activity, it was this Gypsy community in Hodazi who saved him by acting powerfully and collectively by going to the council. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Well, I asked for an opportunity to tell you how we birch-egyháza people have seen the events of the past four years, the Calvary of the school, the children and their parents. Well, let me underline once again how we Nyíregyháza people see this, because this school is working in Nyiregyháza. So, the former Diocese of the Greek Catholic Church reopened the Huszártelep school in 2011, offering new hope for families in the area. The opening of the institution was supported by the municipality of Nyíregyháza, the local Roma self-government, one of which I had the pleasure of speaking with during the morning with a prominent person, and expressed special joy that I would speak on this subject. Plus, of course, the demands of the townspeople here also met with the determination of the Greek Catholics to open a school. However, the Chance for Disadvantaged Children Foundation took action, attacked the school, attacked the church, accused the church and the municipality of Nyíregyháza of segregation. I don't want to go into detail about the legal processes that have been going on in this town with a lot of other things. There were not only legal but also other events when they threatened members of the Roma community by doing wrong, treating them as little children. The Curia, one word as a hundred, found that neither the local government nor the Greek Catholic Church were segregational. In its judgment of 22 April, the Curia stated that Nyíregyháza had not violated the principle of free schooling and rejected the action of the Disadvantaged Children Foundation in its entirety. By which he announced that he would turn to the European Commission. The President of the Democratic Coalition was not lazy, and immediately assured him of his assistance, offered to help with treason as a Member of the European Parliament. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Allow me to draw a conclusion or two in light of the past few days. By questioning the right of parents in Hussártelep to choose a free school, so-called defenders, and now DK, they do nothing less than exclude and segment. After all, they claim that these people cannot decide what is right and right for them and their children. They do this despite the fact that the Curia's decision rejected the action in every way. Let me ask you: what right do they have to take the liberty? On what basis do they judge and look down on other Hungarian citizens? Where do they find the courage to tell anyone how to raise their child and what school to attend? I am afraid to ask the question in addition to many other things: is it possible that this is because they cannot break away from the practice of the past years, nor does it matter to them that a school with learning and break-out opportunities for children with a difficult fate has to be brought under fire? Allow me to disagree with this position and this attitude to a large extent, not just from a political approach, but simply from common sense. Well, the Curia's justification is clear. I am convinced that the Curia's decision was the only right decision to ensure the real integration of children. For my part, I stand up and support this work. I ask you, the people involved, not to look down on any Hungarian citizen and not to restrict the exercise of their democratic rights. Relax with the decision of the Curia, the highest legal forum in Hungary, and protect the children from the rights defenders! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is in the real interest of Nyíregyháza and Hussartelep, the Hussarvár school. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-12	Minister Zoltán Balog wishes to answer on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I don't have gloat or triumph. Well, it could be both, because I find it sad and disappointing, outrageous that this trial has been brought to justice at all. There is this foundation, this so-called human rights foundation, which, I do not deny, has professional experience and knowledge of what is the disadvantaged, including the beneficial and less beneficial form of education for Roma and Gypsy children. This foundation took on a pathetic and shameful role when he joined this charade. I myself, because I thought that they had professional experience and that it was worth working with, I negotiated with them for several hours, otherwise as a single minister in the last 15-20 years to avoid this situation. I made them a deal. The foundation first accepted this and then kicked it because it thought the trouble was more important, the protest, the news that it paid young Roma. All our negotiations have failed. The first time in the history of modern Hungarian democracies we established the foundation responsible for catching up, Roma integration, was to involve and cooperate with all organizations that had experience and worked here. It's very important to have continuity here. I personally discussed this situation with György Soros behind the foundation on two occasions, and I asked that this situation, because it is important to fight segregation in Hungary, to treat it as exceptional, to allow parents and the church to have the right and the positive help we have seen here. This may have been naive, because I have been promised several times to review this situation, compared to this, there are more and more press campaigns not only against me but against the Hungarian government, because it is more important for this foundation and this circle to fight against their own country than better education for Gypsy children. [[11.40]] If the court considers that, first and second, - let us not forget - it is for their benefit, then it is independent, if the Curia, the Supreme Body, decides otherwise, then it was immediately influenced by the government, and therefore those who otherwise consider respect for independent courts so important in other cases refuse to accept this decision. They only want to prove that this government can't do good, it can't be good in Roma and Gypsy cases, while they, the experts who had the opportunity to influence previous governments, failed with their anti-segregation plan, their catching up plan, their employment plan. The lowest point of this bankruptcy in the area of Roma integration was the 2008-2009 Roma killings. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is also our fault!]] where, to this day, the role of the secret services remains unclear. The role of the secret services is unclear, and then, when the Roma strategy was published in 2011 for which Europe had waited long years, and finally the Hungarian government dared to take up this issue when the competent Commissioner declared that a positive example was the Hungarian catch-up and Roma issue. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I will not listen to this!]] when professional forums confirm all this, they continue the campaign. [[Agnes Kunhalmi is leaving the Chamber.]] We could talk about the point. We could talk about the fact that living together is really important, it is very important to do it together for catching up, it is very important to work together, and it is an important tool for different ethnic, cultural and social groups to learn together that is an important tool for catching up, but anyone who prepares you for this is not trying, but is helping to catch up. It's also typical, I myself, although I'm not from Nyíregyháza, I've been to the Hussars' School four times, the lawyers who sued me, not once. I asked them separately during the trial to go there once and see what was happening there, because the paper was more important than the reality itself. Preventing such a positive initiative is a serious mistake, and I even think that there is more than a mistake on their part. Well, we could talk about the point, really. [[It's time!]] The point is that more and more people get free textbooks, that from the age of three, the kindergarten is mandatory, that we have extended the children's meal, that there is a János Arany talent program, that there is a national talent program, that we have tripled the number of children's homes, that we run schools, 178 in this country. More than HUF 10 billion will be spent only on the possibility for disadvantaged children who want to break out of poverty and extreme poverty. I ask those who can't do anything else, let the parents, let the church function freely and help. If you can't do that, at least don't stop those who want to help. We continue to respect the prohibition of unlawful separation, we are anti-regregation, and we will do everything we can with the government decree, with the amendment of the law so that all those born in this country, where possible, can study and work together in Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-14	Speaking before the next agenda, Mr President Novák, on behalf of Jobbik, asked for an address not only to keep Jobbik's proposals on the agenda, but also to implement them. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It would be a mistake to draw a far-reaching conclusion from the suggestion of the head of government on the death penalty, since WikiLeaksen has leaked what Viktor Orbán said to foreign capitalists, according to the documents, that they should not pay attention to what he says for his election, since we know very well that statements that aim to obtain such a vote, either yes or no, so that even the statements which do not stand up to Jesus' commandment serve no other purpose than to catch the wind from Jobbik's sail. We would be happy to see that the MSZP and Fidesz are the biggest problems, the greatest danger - for themselves, of course - is the entry of Jobbik to the government, and they are trying to do everything they can to get the wind out of our sails by taking our suggestions. But I wish that would happen in substance and not only in terms of words. However, if we give this some hope, allow me, on the basis of this thought, to offer mothers some kind of state gift on Mother's Day, as I did yesterday. Mother's Day is not only a family holiday, it's also a public affair. It is also in the interest of women to experience motherhood as young as possible and as many times as possible. Motherhood is the most beautiful profession of women, which is why it would be justified to increase the appreciation of Mother's Day rather than women's day. This could be done by providing one-off support on the occasion of every Mother's Day, as proposed by Jobbik and we hope that soon, as proposed by Viktor Orbán. We are not asking for anything unrealistic, just what is being given to pensioners, for example, to make the family support system follow-up to inflation, like pensions; to pay even a sum on Mother's Day the missed growth that is not achieved due to the lack of inflation monitoring. That is why we would like family support to be guaranteed at least in real terms by means of a one-year allowance. After all the opposite government propaganda, of course, newlyweds get a one-time wedding gift, but all other family support amounts, from family allowance to tax relief and all support, fall in real value, year after year. This should be changed by making parents happy on Mother's Day with such support. But in addition, we have proposals that I would like to put to your attention now because of the shortness of time; ten proposals that could be put in place every year, each mother's day, one by one. For example, a radical reduction in VAT would be justified in the articles needed to raise children or even in basic foods. Péter Szijjártó and András Tállai made an excellent presentation of this proposal from the opposition, but it was voted out on the government in the same way that the MSZP representatives voted out on it when they were on the government. We promise to support radical VAT cuts in articles for child rearing and basic food when we come to government. It would also be necessary, of course, for a state-funded home and rental-building and purchase programme, as well as to extend the family discount to a number of other taxes, contributions and taxes, so that they can actually make use of the envelopes that you are throwing around here, but they do not add that the government of the rich allows only the rich, or at least the average earners, while not the low earners. It would be appropriate to introduce a second child benefit in a number of areas such as public transport, camping and catering, which today is cheaper for large families only. It would also be appropriate to introduce and promote a family model with four children, as for example, the fourth child would need an increased family discount, a family allowance, and the introduction of this category at all so that the three children would not be the ceiling. The kindergarten care fee introduced by the previous Fidesz government was ripe for abolition. It would be appropriate to increase the number and space of nursery schools and kindergartens, not only by cosmetics - in which you are very good - to increase, say, the number of groups of 20 to 25, but also in terms of size. And since infertility is now a disease of the population, an extension of the IVF baby program, i.e. the support for artificial insemination, would also be justified. It pains me very much that all of these proposals were voted out, for example, in the recent vote on the Budget Act. In addition, a land programme could help young people to land and stay at home, as well as parental annuities to support parents from the child's income tax, a kind of pension supplement. In this sense, the pension system also needs to be reviewed. This pension system will not be sustainable, but neither will the entire public finances, unless there is a population turn that will not be able to wait for Jobbik's government. We need immediate action. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-16	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, These sentences would be more credible from Jobbik if, in the last five years, since they have been sitting in Parliament, the proposals made by the government for families would have been voted in the tax laws or other proposals. [[First of Novak: We voted for them all!]] After all, Jobbik is now demanding proposals, measures some of which have already been implemented, such as a family benefit for levies or contributions. If you had listened, Congressman, to what you refused, you would have realized that, for example, in the case of a straight line inheritance, the levies had been abolished, you would have realized that, in the case of contributions, family allowances could be used for precisely the families who live on the lowest income for a year and a half now. Well, so in the last five years, we should have paid more attention to the votes, and then perhaps these measures would have hit Jobbik's threshold and recognised the results. Because fortunately, on Mother's Day, we were greeting more and more mothers this Sunday, as the number of children's commitments has increased to an unprecedented extent, we have broken 30-year records in terms of the fact that the number of living births has increased by 3.2 percent from one year to the next. I believe that Mother's Day is expanding because more and more mothers can be greeted, and that is very good, and we are all happy about that. If someone had been to and from Budapest yesterday, there was no more busy hub where extra-flowered people wouldn't have stood up and sold flowers, and indeed, people would have gone with flowers in their hands and greeted their mothers and grandmothers, now 3.2 percent more than a year ago. [[11.50]] This trend has now been taking place in Hungary for almost a year and a half. We believe that the measures that we have taken since 2010 have had some fruitage. After all, since the beginning of the 80's before the regime change, since the late 70's, it has not been possible to achieve such an improvement in population processes, but now the growth is 3.2 percent from one year to the next. A kind of growth that during our five-year government cycle [[What five-year-old? You have four years!]] the number of children per couple or a woman of childbearing age has risen from 1.26 per cent to 1.41, and we have not seen much of an example in the last thirty years, and these are not accidental increases, but the results of a conscious government policy. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] After all, we have tried to help families who have children to have children, so that the state can create this possibility, and there is no area where this would not have happened. [[You're right! There's a lower...]] This is why, for example, even the number of marriages increased by 9 percent compared to 2010. But the most important part is the introduction of a family-type taxation system. You know that, honourable Member, because you rejected this in the vote, but it did leave an extra HUF 20,000 a month for every Hungarian family who has a child. This is a total of 740,000 forints plus, since Fidesz-KDNP has been on the government, the families are this much lower than if the socialist period had continued. Our annual budget now includes HUF 207 billion more for family support than it was five years ago. His real earnings in Hungary have increased in the last five years, for those who are childless, and for those who are childless, this represents an overall increase of 18%, in real terms of 6 percent, but those who are having children have an average increase of not only 6 percent, but 16 percent; and those who are three or more children, honourable Member, have increased by 37 percent. I do not think that you can show in Europe over the last five years, during the crisis, a country where the income of families with three or more children would have increased by 37%. [[Dóra Dúró: And we can't even make such a high tax!]] In Hungary, this government has entered into a conflict with multinationals, a conflict with international companies, in order to provide support for families. It was only this government that made such conflicts to keep in the families the money that many people have taken abroad, and I could even say the Elizabeth programme and other things that favor families. The re-extension of the child for three years means HUF 308 thousand for all families [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] which has three children. The adoptive child is also a new measure that we have taken. By linking family allowances to school visits, she reduced the number of students from 29 thousand to 16 thousand. [[On paper!]] Missing more than 50 hours unauthorized. [[Who dares to report it?]] The supplementary leave for children can now be used by both parents. So there can be a lot more mothers as mothers plus days off or dad plus days off with kids. The introduction of baby bonds has helped 70,000 children with an average state start-up allowance of HUF 42 500. The family's home-building discount, which will enter into force on 1 July this year - you didn't support it either - supports from 800 thousand to 3 million 250 thousand forints that the children's room can be bought by family members and move into a separate room. Maximum amount of ged [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We raised it from 102,000 to 147 thousand, and I could have even mentioned the job security plan. I'll just give you one more number: we've increased the number of cribs and family daycare centers from 37,000 to 47,000. It would've been nice if Jobbik had supported this for the last five years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-18	Dear Parliament, László Varju is independent; Gergely Kulcs, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Bernadett Szél, LMP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; János Pócs, Fidesz; László Kiss, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Loránt Hegedűs, Lorántné Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; László Teleki, MSZP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; László Varga, MSZP; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Dúró, Jobbik, Member. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:54 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. According to this, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question with the title of the operating police station for the county of Kápászter. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have previously drawn the Minister's attention on a written question about the adverse consequences of the planned organisational downsizing of the Kapus County Police Station. I expected an explanation from the Minister. [[The Foreman of Novak: Hard!]] on the basis of professional considerations, surveys and impact assessments, the decision on the fate of the police station. In his reply, the Minister denied that the decommissioning of the Cabbage County police station would be on the agenda. However, contrary to his response, the reality well-known by the inhabitants of Kápásmegyer is that the police station actually does not work today. The police station building appears to be empty. The people who arrive and need help are only received by an inscription that the closed building's intercom can be used to report to the Újpest police station, which is miles away. The explanation is that the police station is croaking from the emptiness because they've all been sent on patrol. Secretary of State, that can't be considered a working police station where there's only one intercom ringing to a remote precinct. It is also well known that the police officers are very often patrolling outside the Cabbage County, while they are trying to maintain the order of the housing estate with patrols deployed from the alert police. Dear Secretary of State, There are nearly 30,000 people in the Cabbage Department whose safety requires the operation of a real police station, a reinforced police station that actually operates in Cabbage County. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State, when will there really be a police station in the Cabbage County? Thank you.
u2015-05-04-20	I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2015-05-04-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary is committed to strengthening public order and public security. For this purpose, over the last five years, we have increased the number of police officers, we have created strict laws, and we have also helped the technical conditions of the police to a significant extent... [[Zoltán Lukács is talking to the President of Novak.]] Mr President, please give us the opportunity to respond. Congressman Luke can't help himself, apparently. Thank you very much. [[Defiance. Zoltán Lukács: Raise Jobbik!]] I will continue: so, Congressman, I have good news for you and the people of the cabbage county, because the police station in Kapus County is still in operation, and 25 people are still in service there. So once again, it works with 25 people from 8:00 to 16:00. In the period after 16 hours there are two main patrols of kmb and two, so there is a total of four patrolmen on duty, and there is indeed an opportunity to contact the service commander, who can immediately inform the patrols who are in the area, so not in other parts of Újpest, but in Cabbage County. So this new provision was also made in order to improve the safety of the Cabbage County. And if you look at the data of the last ten years, you can say that Budapest IV. In its district, there has been a significant reduction in the number of major crimes such as aggravated assault, disorderly conduct, theft, car theft, carjacking and destruction. Honourable Congressman, These are the facts. I would like to say that if the public security situation so requires, we will strengthen the personnel and technical facilities of the Kapszmegyer police station even more, because our aim is to ensure that in all the settlements of Hungary - Budapest, the capital city of Budapest, the IV. In the district and in the Cabbage County - people can live even more safely. I ask you to support this effort by voting in the legislative proposals on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-22	Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. Gene-manipulated products on the shelves of Hungarian shops? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-05-04-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, in recent decades, the use of genetically manipulated organisms has grown dynamically, so both plants and their products are present in everyday trade around the world, decorating on the shelves of stores. [[12.00]] In order to ensure traceability in the European Union Regulation, where a product contains more than 0.9 per cent of a genetically engineered organism, it should be indicated. Nevertheless, Greenpeace has recently drawn up a list that is very instructive for Hungarian people and Hungarian politicians. A number of research has been carried out on the health damage that occurs in people who consume genetically engineered organisms. It has been proven that a mother, if she eats this, can already find in the fetus a plant protection toxin produced in such a genetically modified plant until harvest. But why should these be necessary, we ask the question when we can grow anything healthy for ourselves in good quality domestic fields. This list contains products made using genetically modified plants, so that is the list that Greenpeace recently published. There are 18 manufacturers and their products on the list; among them, we also have popular chocolates, sparkling soft drinks and baby food. The list is also shocking because you can buy any product at home by anyone. He goes to the nearest shopping mall - not on Sunday, of course -, lifts it off the shelf, takes it home and eats it. Luckily, more and more Hungarian people are paying attention to what they consume, but if there is no marking on it, if they are not informed enough, they cannot know that their favorite food or drink contains such poison. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State whether there can be a product containing a genetically engineered organism in Hungary, without marking, whether it is possible to completely ban any low-volume product containing the genetically engineered organism from trading: and finally, please reassure me that the domestic use of the products on this list is being continuously examined and that no genetically modified substances have been found in them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-24	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó.
u2015-05-04-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman, Our basic law lays down the gene-free nature of Hungarian agriculture as a strategic objective. On the basis of the official sampling and testing plan, hundreds of food and feed samples and laboratory tests are carried out each year for GMO testing. Between 2012 and 2014, 1113 samples of food were examined by the Authority. As a result of the checks, the GMO content of any food sample has not exceeded the labelling limit for years and, even if the GMO content was detectable, it did not exceed 0,1 per cent. The next planned step of the Ministry is to establish a legal framework for the labelling of GMO-free feed and food, as there are foods such as meat, milk, eggs that are not only GMO-free, but even the animals producing them have consumed GMO-free feed. We intend to designate such products as GMO-free. This will be done under national legislation; the draft legislation is already being negotiated. On 2 April 2015, the amendment of the EU directive to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs by Member States entered into force, which is a huge opportunity for Hungarian agriculture. Hungary is the flag carrier for GMO-free in the European Union. Minister Sándor Fazekas also initiated the creation of an EU GMO-free zone. Dear Parliament, What I have said and what the government has done proves that we are doing everything we can to get healthy, safe, high-quality food on the table of as many families as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-26	Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-05-04-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Why does schooling in the countryside have to go back? Practitioners schools are the leading actors in Hungarian public education. Institutions based on Eötvös traditions achieve excellent results, and these are the best schools. But they stand out not only with the training that provides above-average quality, but also in many cases with their catching-up, talent-care and innovative activities. These schools perform an extremely important task not only because of the quality training of students, but also because of the quality training of prospective Hungarian teachers; they are a special segment of public education and higher education at the same time. Only in an autonomous and free environment can the traditions and spirituality represented by training schools prevail. The open and inclusive environment embodied by a training school is the key to success for him and his students. That is why it is a serious threat that the government would take nine training schools away from universities and take them into the hands of the KLIK. Students, parents, educators, all over the world, rightly feared that the plans for this matter were received with great indignation just two months before the end of the school year. The Government claims that these institutions did not fulfil certain conditions. In practice, the government recognises the decline of higher education in rural areas, universities and the training of teachers associated with them, since all schools affected by maintenance change are rural institutions. Taking over is a sign of a decline in teaching in rural areas, in which the responsibility of the government cannot be avoided. Dear Secretary of State, Please explain to us all the details of the reality. What conditions do these institutions not fulfil? What's wrong with birchgyháza, Debrecen, Sopron, his troubles, Kaposvár or the training school in Pécs? Why is it that 9 out of the 25 training schools, taken over by the KLIK, are all rural institutions? Thank you.
u2015-05-04-28	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-04-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Will Teacher Education Fall Back? That is the question you are asking, honourable Member, in the title of your question. Let's look at the application rates since Fidesz-KDNP entered the field of education. If you look at kindergarten educator training, then the number of candidates was 1855, now increased to 3084, so there is a very, very significant increase, if not double, but nearly as much. If you look at teacher training, the number of first-place candidates has also increased from 1030 to 1663 from 2013 until now. In terms of teacher training, the number of first-place applicants has also increased from 5330 to 6970 in the last two years. This shows, therefore, that the policy that we have taken, with Klebelsberg's scholarship and other ways of supporting someone's choice of teaching career, is that we have launched the pedagogical career, which raises the salary of teachers by 30-40 percent, making the teaching profession attractive for many, and there are far more people now coming in than they did years ago. The system of training schools is an important part of this training, the training of teachers. You have also said here in Parliament that you have read the strategy document "Training in Higher Education," which may have been supported by the LMP only from the opposition parties, and you have also said so in your speech. In this strategy, too, we have already stated that it is necessary to see that training schools that are linked to a higher education institution, i.e. all training schools, meet the legal requirements of the quality and quality of education there, as you know: there are 11 different aspects that make it possible to become a training school [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and an overview of these 11 aspects has taken place and taken place over the past weeks and months. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-30	Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:, By what measures does the government ensure the development of Pécs? With an address? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán visited Pécs last week to discuss the next five years' developments in the city. The direction was, of course, not determined by the Prime Minister, but by the Pécs themselves, as we have held a local consultation in recent months entitled Pécs 2020. Thus, based on the opinion of 6500 responding families, the Pécs would like to have new jobs, economic development and a leisure centre with an aqua park in the first place. To this end, it has been agreed with the Prime Minister that the government will facilitate the construction of already completed production halls that host investors, because in our experience, international investors are primarily looking for existing industrial areas and industrial buildings to create new jobs. [[12.10]] It is also important to expand our current industrial park by at least 90 hectares, so that we can have a contiguous area of the size that allows us to receive a large manufacturer, and this not only provides jobs for the Pécs, but also markets for local small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It has been mentioned that the government will build the M6 motorway to the border in the coming years and will continue to build the M60 motorway. Pécs is Hungary's first university, so we also agreed that, as the 650th anniversary of the foundation is approaching, the competitiveness of the university should be increased, including by increasing the number of 2300 foreign students arriving in our city to 5 thousand in the short term. The Prime Minister stressed that he considered it a matter of honor to make Pécs a successful city. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what measures the government has taken to ensure that promises are made to be real. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-04-32	I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-05-04-33	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. The answer to your question was already part of it, because it listed all the important points in which Mayor Zsolt Páva and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán agreed. Indeed, these issues deal with problems that reflect the needs of the Pécs. The entire programme of modern cities, launched by the government, in which the Prime Minister will go through all county-righted cities and conclude a separate agreement with everyone, is organised in such a way that the needs and expectations of local people, local leaders, are reflected in the agreements that will be concluded. As the Member knows, the Prime Minister has already been to Sopron, visited Miskolc, visited Eger, and the fourth place was Pécs, and will be leaving soon, and will visit Székesfehérvár in the near future. We have assessed everywhere what is needed, and in each case we will fix in a government decision the points in which the Prime Minister has agreed with the local leaders. The government decision will guarantee that the commitments will be implemented. However, let us not forget, honourable Member, that the programme "Modern Cities" is also an opportunity and that the Prime Minister is personally going through all major cities so that the government can properly coordinate the use of EU funds and the use of national resources; so that we actually spend the available resources where and in what form it is needed. I also highlight some of the points that my fellow Member has already mentioned. The continuation of the M6 and M60 are indeed of strategic importance. It is particularly important for me, a representative and a secretary of state who also deals with culture, that there is also an agreement on the Zsolnay Cultural Quarter. Thank God, one of your parliamentary representatives is the Secretary of State for Culture, so the Zsolnay Quarter will be in good hands if the state plays a bigger role than it is at present. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In addition, I also highlight the expansion of the industrial park. My fellow Member, the government is on your side, with the Pécs, and the government can continue to count on it in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-04-34	Dear Parliament, Zsuzsanna Szelényi wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an independent question: why is it more important to control ice cream shops, hairdressers, beauticians, taxi drivers, veggies than to control casino owners, who are already placed in a differentiated position by the government and have a profit of ten billion? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-04-35	Thank you very much. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, In November 2010, János Lázár, the Fidesz fraction leader of the Hungarian gambling industry, talked about the damage to the state budget, ultimately the hundreds of billions of dollars per year to taxpayers and the manipulation of slot machines when he turned to Viktor Orbán about this issue. His written question was: "Why doesn't the state care about the revenue from the money-winning machines, or where did the billions from the money-winning machines go? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. György Matolcsy, then Minister of Economic Affairs, launched an urgent investigation, which, unfortunately, did not produce any results. In the summer of 2011, Mr Lázár, Group leader, presented a further question to the Prime Minister because he still considered that the gambling industry should be subject to much more control and taxation. In October 2012, with the active involvement of János Lázár, money-winning machines were banned across the country with great speed, and only in a few exceptional places could they continue to operate in casinos. The government has referred to the fact that poor families and addicts should not be dealing with money-winning machines and, of course, national security risks have also been identified. Compared to this, in 2013, the government allowed 11 gambling casinos to operate in a private concession tender, with very favourable conditions for the winners; which was surprising because, as I said earlier, the government referred to poorer families, addicts and national security risks. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What is truly surprising and essentially unjustified is - and I would like an answer to that - why the majority of the governors do not require the installation of a modern control device that can be built into toy machines and why there is no need for direct electronic connection [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] with the bodies of the tax authority, as well as ice cream guys, hairdressers, beauticians. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: End of song!]] Cabbies and veggies have to do this. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-36	I would ask my fellow Members to respect the time frame. In return, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-04-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I tried to remove the positive elements from your question, and I found two in it. One is that you, as an independent Member, now support the introduction of online cash registers. We are very happy about this, since there are nearly 200 online cash registers already in operation. There has been a significant increase in VAT revenue from the retail trade, thereby significantly bleaching this sector. The other positive element is that, like the government, you are counting on the revenue of casino games and you expect a strict tax to increase the revenue of public finances. So we already agree on two things. On the other hand, we do not agree on the need to transform the gaming casino's revenue tracking system into an online cash register. It's because the gaming casinos were first, and a very strict system was established already in 2001. This means that there is video control in the arcade, and by the way, the person who enters will undergo identity checks and will also need to be identified. Publicity and registration of lots and prizes shall be ensured in a closed certification system. This shall be made available to the authorities. So this is way ahead of its time, since 2001 the system has been this way. Basically, what you are proposing and asking for would not be a tightening of the current system, but a facilitation and relaxation, because if this was the only way the casino systems would work, it would be easier for them. So we do not consider the amendment necessary. However, the revenue you expect in the current system is also responsible for the public budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-04-38	Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Who and why does the MVM support? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, MVM's advertising and sponsorship budget is about HUF 10 billion, one of the largest companies in Hungary. As an example, MOL uses only about a third of them for similar purposes. In this hat there are a number of lines of debate, billions have been added over the past period, and new directions have also been seen. In 2013, for example, the largest item of about five billion was transferred to the Hungarian National Film Fund under the supervision of the Government Commissioner Andy Vajna. The list of advertising contracts concluded by MVM until April 14 has recently revealed the names of Mahir, Hung-Ister and Vivaki. [[12.20]] While MVM's advertising spending has been nearly tenfold over the past four years, in 2009 it was published at a list price of some HUF 165 million, now it is worth almost one and a half billion a year for these months. The largest advertising orders from the MVM group have been sent to numerous organs that are close to the government; MVM also supports cultural projects in the lives of many national sports clubs. In terms of sports and cultural support, close proximity to the government often arises, for example, by close government performers. The question arises, Mr Secretary of State, who decides on the advertising and support activities of the MVM, on the specific envelopes. I'm glad you're responding, your well-known Borsodi bond, so let me ask you about Miskolc, as Miskolc also has teams with a significant support base, successful sports, prestigious cultural events. I would mention just a few of the cultural events, the opera festival, the increasingly famous film festival. In addition to the DVTK teams, I would also like to mention the Miskolc Ice Bears [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] A team that won everything where they started this year. MVM has several heating plants in Miskolc. In 2012, 10 billion revenues were generated [[The president's ringing again.]] 7 billion in 13, this is provided by the taxes of the Miskolcs. So I ask Mr Secretary of State how and on what basis he decides what the MVM supports. Thank you.
u2015-05-04-40	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-05-04-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since 2011, the MVM Group's support policy has consistently focused on promoting universal and domestic cultural values, supporting education, science, competition and mass sport, charitable activity and environmental protection and sustainable development. There is no doubt a lot in it, there is a lot of film, but for example there is the Academy of Music, Müpa Budapest, with its support for more than 40 piano concertos. In all cases, MVM takes into account the work of artists and athletes, their professional and public recognition; it provides an equivalent sponsorship equivalent to the advertising value of the given production. In all cases, campaigns are carried out with extensive experience, according to the strategy proposed by the Agency, with maximum professional and financial efficiency. The MVM also selects the contracted partners to organise the event and perform creative tasks by tender. The advertising costs of MVM have not doubled over the past four years, although it is no doubt - and this is welcome - that since 2011, the MVM group has been communicating significantly more intensively in both its content and creative appearance than in previous communications aimed exclusively at a narrow profession. Experience has shown that this activity has increased MVM Zrt. and the reputation and acceptance of the group. MVM's available advertising and support activity framework is provided by MVM Zrt. Approval by its general meeting as part of a business plan within the framework of the annual general meeting. You mentioned Miskolc, the Foundation for the Development of Education at the University of Miskolc in recent years in connection with education, science and charity. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , the Blue Line Children's Crisis Foundation and the Blathy Ottó Foundation were supported by MVM. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-42	Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture a question: "Delivery in bankruptcy?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-04-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In parallel with the freeze on the prices of public services, changes in legislation have placed burdens on operators in the waste management sector in recent years, such as compulsory wage increases, landfill charges, energy monitoring fees, e-tolls or bank transaction fees. The operation of the companies concerned is inexorably loss of financial balance. Thus, on 9 April, the environmental authority proposed that the NAV incassor be imposed by the Green Bridge Region Nonprofit Kft. the accounts of a waste management association. If this local government association is unable to carry out its task, the removal of waste in 108 municipalities of Pest and Nógrád county may be terminated in the near future and may affect the lives of about 300 thousand people. In the economic difficulties of non-profit associations in the country, the ownership authorities cannot help, as they cannot manage the lost resources or the increased burden from their own budgets. In fact, it will cause additional financial difficulties if these companies go bankrupt. For example, only Kerepes would fall away from a business tax of HUF 40 million if the above mentioned Green Bridge Kft. He'd go bankrupt. Dear Secretary of State, With the inability of municipal associations, 5 million people across the country may otherwise be in a situation where there will be no one to take their garbage. We know that from the tender system operated by the Ministry, some of the service providers in difficulty have received additional resources - I have heard of two in total, by the way - but this will not be able to deal with this overall. So I ask you: will disaster management have to intervene or will there be a meaningful solution at last? I ask for a substantive answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-44	I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2015-05-04-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In fact, companies providing public services today face a number of challenges, as they have to meet both cheap, modern and EU commitments at the same time. But it is important to note that the waste is being removed from all settlements, there is no abandoned settlement and there is no emergency supply in Hungary. If the municipality cannot contract with a service provider, the public service in the area concerned shall be provided by the designation of an appropriate public service provider by the disaster management authority. This was needed in 130 settlements. In order to stabilise the financial situation of the public service providers, the Ministry of Agriculture made it possible to submit an individual application, with a budget of HUF 7.1 billion. This resource is provided by the landfill contribution. This is why it is understandable that it would be extremely unfair for the state to compensate the companies that have accumulated the debt of contributions with the money of those who pay with integrity to make a full deposit of waste. The Green Bridge Region Nonprofit Kft. is one of the few public service providers for which more than HUF 100 million of waste is owed in respect of 2014. In addition, the association submitted its individual application to the Ministry, after which it received a deficiency letter on 1 April 2015. The company did not reply to the deficiency letter until 30 April 2015. I wish to stress that the government is not insensitive to the problems of public service providers, all the more so because they are public property, but are more sensitive to the expectations of the public. This may be a time for public services, but it is a good situation for people, because for three years, the fees have not increased and, in addition, they receive an increasingly modern service cheaply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-46	Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-04-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the most Cardinal questions about the use of nuclear power is how we will manage the waste generated during the operation of the nuclear power plant and after decommissioning. We are talking here about what will happen to spent fuel and where we will put it and how much it will cost to store each piece if we remove a nuclear power plant. There are rather chaotic conditions at the moment as to what costs we have to expect. Minister Attila Aszódi recently said on a TV programme that the total cost of dismantling the existing blocks and storing the fuel can be estimated at about HUF 600-700 billion. On the other hand, I looked into the use of Radioactive Wastes Ltd., i.e. RHK Kft. On its website there are completely different numbers, there are total waste costs over HUF 1.6 billion. I gave details of the ingredients of these in my question. But overall, we see that the cost of decommissioning existing Paks blocks alone is 1.6 billion, plus fuel. And if you look at the cost of enlargement, that's an extra 700 billion forints. Thus, a total of HUF 2300 billion is expected to be spent with the decommissioning costs generated by the construction of the next blocks and spent fuel. [[12.30]] Now, the problem is, on the one hand, these costs exist, and on the other hand, I don't know where the source of this is going to come from. Typically, in the case of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant originally designed for 30 years of life, for three decades of operation, you have collected HUF 250 billion in the nuclear fund. I'm not even sure if this money is available, so if the Secretary of State answers that, I would also like to thank you. However, we also need to clarify - and we need to give taxpayers information - what additional expenditure they can expect. So I would ask you to provide me with accurate data on the current technical calculations of how much it will cost to handle high-activity waste in the case of old blocks and new blocks to be built. And I would also ask the Honourable Secretary of State to use the same numbers as RHK Kft., not to confuse taxpayers with different numbers. Thank you.
u2015-05-04-48	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski.
u2015-05-04-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I fully agree with you that people really need to know the facts about the treatment of high-activity waste from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and we must not allow this issue to become a means of political gain. As you know, Parliament adopted a national policy for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste last week, on 28 April. Long-term programmes and budgets for the temporary storage of spent fuel, the final disposal of radioactive waste and the decommissioning of nuclear power plants blocks should be drawn up on the basis of this document for new blocks. The main task of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund as a separate public fund is to provide adequate resources for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel and decommissioning through the amount paid by waste producers; I stress, not through taxpayers but through the amount paid by waste producers. The resources of the Fund cannot be deducted, the use of the accumulated amount is limited. The prospective licensee, as far as Paks II is concerned, should start making payments to the Fund in the year following the entry into service of the first block, the extent of which is determined by the principles applicable to the existing blocks. Payments should fully cover the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel generated by the operation of new blocks and the decommissioning of the blocks. The expected cost of the fund-funded high-activity waste disposal at the base price of 2015 is HUF 745 billion, in addition to the costs of storage and operation [[The president's ringing the bell.]] including the costs of closure and supervision over the entire 70-year period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-50	Dear Parliament, Pál Völner, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development what can the government do to develop roads that are not financed from EU funds? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-51	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, On 7 April, the European Commission made its position clear that it was not possible to support the M4 motorway from EU sources. However, the decisions of the Regional Directorate-General should not negatively affect the municipalities involved in the construction of the stopped expressway, as the economic strengthening of the region is largely dependent on the connections with the capital and the border. The government's position seems clear, as the municipalities involved in the M4 have already started working on a new concept for the Ministry of National Development. However, this area is not the only area involved in the connection to the motorway network; cities with county rights and major industrial centres such as Sopron, Kaposvár, Zalaegerszeg, Salgótarján, Eger, Ozd, Békéscsaba are not connected to the trans-European road network and therefore EU funds cannot be used for this task. The connection of these settlements to the Hungarian motorway network is a national interest, so it is welcome that the government provides a HUF 600 billion framework for the purpose. In addition to the expressway network, the road cover of the main roads will be renovated at 580 km, to which the Ministry will spend more than twice the budget of last year, HUF 68 billion. Dear Secretary of State, The government's objective was to connect county seats to the domestic motorway until the end of the cycle, which is why I consider it an important step to keep this commitment in favour of the deprivation of EU funds. Constructions already led to a road network of 250 km last year, and this number was expanded in 2015 with the construction of a further 350 km of new road cover. A legislative package will also help to speed up transport investment from six to a half years to two and a half years will help to implement it as soon as possible. In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State what the government can do to improve roads that cannot be financed from EU funds. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-52	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2015-05-04-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for also mentioning in your question what efforts we have been able to achieve and what goals we have already, at least in part, been able to achieve. Here, too, I would like to continue to emphasise the most important things that are about the need for all motorways to be built up to the national border in this cycle, and to be turned on by every county-righted city and county seat where this connection is not yet in place. In this sense, as has been said, Minister Miklós Seszták has been given the task of carrying out the survey and preparatory work by 30 May, in which we can make clear which is the better and healthier solution that can be reassuring for everyone in relation to the M4. It is clear that the Hungarian government will continue to build the M4 and the entire section of the M4 will be built. This endeavour also makes it clear that the steps we have taken are in this direction and that we naturally strive to make as many domestic investments as possible. The acceleration package, as we call it among ourselves, would mean a great deal to us and to everyone, since we are changing the EU's procedural order, which was adopted earlier in 2006, then in 2007, by Bajnai, during which we were forced to endure the need to prepare an investment for five to six years or six and a half years. This is now being modified, changed by the accelerator package and allows the investment package for economic recovery and stabilisation to be completed and implemented. I am very confident that all the commitments we have made will come true, and, of course, in the meantime, we need to take care of the state of the roads, the maintenance of the existing network, the preservation of the existing network, and the revenue from the tolls will give us the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-54	Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question:. What is the reason why retail shops operating on the shores of Lake Balaton should be exempted from the obligation to keep closed on Sunday? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr András Tállai will answer the question.
u2015-05-04-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. According to the NGM survey, 33 percent shop on weekdays at Hungarian-owned shopping chains, and 26 percent buy at multis; the same goes back on Sundays and 69 percent buy at multis on Sundays. After that, obviously, there is nothing more to be said about the closings on Sunday than that you want a market reorganization, which is why you ordered everyone to close on Sunday. This is not a free Sunday, and I hope that you will spare me this tale in your reply. But with this great idea of how to make a bigger business for CBA buddies, you are ruining the entire Hungarian tourism, because in tourism, they have to close on Sundays, it means that when on a warmer weekend, for example, on Lake Balaton, Siófok, there are 250,000 tourists in the city, most of whom arrive on Saturday night, because then there is a tour change, and they should go shopping on Sundays, they will find everything that is bad for tourists, and they will also kill businesses who should make their annual income in a few months, and they should make a living out of it. Dear Secretary of State, At Lake Balaton, but the whole Hungarian tourism can't last half a month of Fidesz winter - because that's what keeping you closed on Sunday means - so you should do something. The law allows you to grant an exemption in a decree, a government decree, for certain reasons. [[12.40]] I very much hope that this has not been put into the law to allow new exceptions for CBA buddies, but to allow, for example, priority tourist zones to keep these shops open on Sundays, so that businesses can survive, and that people's peaceful relaxation is not disturbed by such insanity. Please respond to when you will be able to open shops in the area of Lake Balaton and Hungarian tourist attractions. [[Nándor Gúr: Aggtelek and Tokaj.]] Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2015-05-04-56	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-04-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There has always been a dispute between the governing parties and the MSZP about the closing of the shop on Sunday. The debate was about who would side with us, whether we would give a day off on Sunday to people who had to work with these shops open. The pro-government told us to take the day off and rest, the MSZP told us not to provide. [[Nándor Gúr: He never said that!]] That was the first point of discussion. You just said the second point of discussion, because this law protects Hungarian businesses against multinationals, and wants Hungarian people to have traffic in their business, profit, profit and profit, and the Hungarian people to work. You say that you should work for the multinationals, we say that you should work for the Hungarians. Then the debate was that you said that when this happened, retail sales would decrease. As it turned out, it did not decrease, but, for example, after 15 March, it increased by 8 percent, based on the data of online cash registers. Then the debate was also about you saying that there would be tens of thousands of unemployed because of this measure; as it turned out, they did not become unemployed, but that the same labour force would be working on other days. Then, of course, you also hoped that the MSZP would be more popular with this case; it didn't become true, because you didn't become more popular. [[Nándor Gúr: But you have become more unpopular!]] But the slide doesn't stop. You claim that people on the shore of Lake Balaton cannot rest and have fun. This is simply impossible, as you probably did not read the law: all the catering units are open, all the accommodations are open, the accommodation is open to commercial activities, the tourist services are provided, and the spa services are also provided to these people if they are sold in retail. The tourism of Lake Balaton has, by the way, just one of the best growths in Europe, based on the latest statistics. What you're saying isn't true. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-58	Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Defence: Who is responsible for delaying helicopter purchases? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, From 2010 onwards, it is becoming increasingly obvious that our helicopter stock, which is vital for the defence, is outdated and need to be replaced urgently. From 2011, we saw attempts to do so, when the USA offered free replacement of obsolete technology for its own 40-year-old Vietnamese war. This free offer later turned out to cost us more than 100 billion forints. The news in the press then mentioned Agusta Westland's 139 machine, the company's entire-page advertisements were published in close-to-government newspapers this year, and the director of which, Giuseppe Orsi, was sentenced to two years in prison in 2014. Then, in May 2013, the Minister announced with the agreement of all parliamentary parties that the national helicopter fleet would be acquired by means of a single international tender. The idea is that 30 devices would be purchased, worth 172 billion forints in total. The tender documentation was completed by autumn 2013, and the government promised to launch the competition before the 2014 parliamentary elections, so that the new government could decide immediately after the elections. However, this has not happened, since then the process has been slipping. Meanwhile, Hungary has basically lost its fighting helicopter capability, and now we don't have a single flightable combat helicopter. As an example of the gravity of the situation, during the flood in 2013, a private company had to hire helicopters to transport sandbags to disaster areas. Orbán said at the beginning of February that the acquisition of helicopters would be an international competition, but, I quote, to write it out, at least a few weeks of consideration and preparatory work will be required. Several months have passed since then, but the decision to be taken by the defence, police and air rescue services has not been taken. Dear Minister, What's behind the delay in putting out a helicopter tender? Who will take responsibility for this ability if it is permanently eliminated by the Hungarian Defence Forces? Thank you and I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-60	I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende
u2015-05-04-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for pointing out this extremely important issue. After that, I wish to reassure you immediately: the Hungarian Army has the necessary helicopter capability, and according to our plans it will continue to do so in the future. What's behind the fact that we haven't got any new swivel wings yet? You know the answer, Congressman: the Ministry of Defence's budget does not contain any funds for this, and the government has not yet decided to provide the necessary funds. As you probably know, the Hungarian Defence Office has many modern and less modern abilities, but not one, namely a mint. That way, we strengthen our defense capabilities from what we have. And last year, we decided to increase the salary of our countrymen by 50 percent after 13 years, from the resources at our disposal - which, by the way, are constantly rising - to continue with the traditions of the first civilian government between 1998 and 2002. This is because, honourable Member, for us, the soldier, or man, is the first, only then comes the technique, because at any time, war technology can be acquired relatively quickly, if we have money, but such a well-trained soldier, a dedicated soldier who will manage this new technique, we can only bring it to the service of the country for many years, perhaps decades. Honourable Congressman, The development of defence and defence capabilities is not a single factor, but a very complex system where we plan for the long term and try to make responsible decisions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Of course, this is also part of the rotating wing capability, and I ask you to calm down, because we will ensure that too. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-62	Ladies and gentlemen, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: - Does the Ministry of Agriculture see a chance to ban glyphosate in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you've all been informed that the World Health Organization has listed the herbalicide glifosate as carcinogenic, mutagenic agents. This plant protection product is one of the most commonly used plant protection products with the broadest spectrum; there are many other plant protection products containing glyphosate. Research has shown at international level that it can make a significant contribution to the accumulation of this chemical even in fetal age. In Hungary, glifosate can be detected in many places in the human body with practically simple blood tests. In Hungary, glifosate is present in three out of every ten people's urine. All volunteers who were sampled and lived in cities were not in contact with glyphosate, so certainly in rural society, where the system of drilled wells appears in many cases, whether it occurs in an even greater proportion than watering the kitchen gardens or such. The research results are very clear, and the question here is clearly what the government's position is. Very few people know that Hungary was the first to ban DDT in 1968, and it was the first to take action against this human-health risk. Similarly, from certain points of view, at least in words, if not so much in action, but exemplary in what the country has done for the GMO exemption. This is also a substance that poses a risk to human health, is dangerous from a food safety point of view, and we would like to know if we can expect government action to be taken in the near future. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-04-64	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. [[12.50]]
u2015-05-04-65	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Congressman, first of all, thank you for your question. A product should be subjected to a number of tests in accordance with very strict requirements before it is authorised to be used. A new scientific test result may give a new light to a plant protection product. The authorisation of the pesticide active substance glyphosate in the European Union is currently being reviewed. The assessment of active substances is based on a very strict and clear data requirement. The applicant shall provide the Commission with all the information at its disposal for the review. The Commission invites an EU Member State to evaluate the information and prepare a draft report. In the case of glyphosate, Germany is the rapporteur Member State, which is known for its thoroughness and rigour. The review should, of course, take into account the fact that, at its meeting on 20 March 2015, the International Agency for Cancer Research identified glyphosate as causing cancer. I note in brackets that it is not known what documentation the agency used for the evaluation. On the basis of the review, the European Food Safety Authority considers the risk associated with the use of the active substance. On the basis of the available studies and evaluations, Germany, as rapporteur Member State, did not recommend the classification of glyphosate as carcinogenic, nor did it consider the active substance to be a hormonal organism. I can assure you, Member, that the Government will continue to do its utmost to ensure that the authorisation and prohibition of plant protection products is based on sound scientific studies, thus ensuring the safety of users, the environment and consumers. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-04-66	Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What will happen to Apáczai in Nyíregyháza? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-67	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, On 28 April, students, teachers, parents and students of the Apáczai school held a demonstration at Nyíregyháza. This demonstration was held in order to make clear the intention of not wanting to be parents of students, educators and students from a nationalized school. The Nyíregyháza declared that they did not ask for nationalized school, they did not ask for state reservations. And, of course, they have also stated that they do not ask for a method of handling that only conveys government intentions and does not want to discuss anything. The demonstration will continue, because there will be various occasions, and please, Mr Secretary, do not spend your time listing to me what other opportunities students, parents, teachers and others can comment on, because I know. However, the question is not whether there is such an occasion, but whether you are willing to change the idea that has been communicated to those concerned as a fact. The question is whether they are willing to listen to parents, students, teachers. The Nyíregyházas. Because if they refuse, these occasions are completely unnecessary. So I ask, Mr Secretary, what will happen to this long-standing 60-year-old school. What are their intentions when various forms of opinion are complicated? Two: Secretary of State, is it not a warning sign that the country's remaining eight affected training schools do not want KLIK as much as the Nyíregyháza? So does the KLIK make sense? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, please invite the Fidesz Members of Parliament to comment. If you have been unable to accept the petition at the demonstration for an unappreciable reason, then be there, listen to the opinions and have the opportunity to tell my honourable fellow Member, as you have already said, what the Nyíregyháza people want. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-68	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-04-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent weeks, there have been consultations with parents in several institutions, as you have said, with student council representatives, school chairs, teachers, and, in the case of training schools, with the head of the maintenance institution, that for institutions that do not comply with the legal conditions on the basis of the data provided by them, what their future should be, as it is important for all of us that children learn in the best possible conditions, the functioning of schools should be as secure as possible. Among these there are several dozen schools in the country that act as a training school with a college or university. In addition to the Nyíregyháza College, two are Apáczai Csere János Practitioner Primary School and Primary Art School as well as the Nyíregyházi College József Eötvös Training School and High School. Here, too, the legal conditions have been reviewed. This is the Government Decree 87 of 2015, which is one of the implementing regulations of the Higher Education Act. According to this, the State Secretariat for Higher Education has also looked at whether these institutions meet all of these 11 criteria, as laid down in the strategy. I would like to make it clear in your speech that you said that these institutions would be nationalised. We are well aware that these colleges are obviously state-owned colleges and universities, so they still operate in indirect state reservations, and the same would be the case for KLIK. So the word "nationalisation" can be used in public forums to chastise MSZP membership, but this is not exactly an accurate sign within the walls of Parliament. This is why we are looking for accurate data, because the question here was whether the number of teachers in charge and the number of teachers in one institution were appropriate. This consultation will take place, and we will see the results of this in the coming weeks, and obviously anything can happen in this institution and in the other nine institutions with the involvement of university leaders. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-04-70	Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. When does the state stand next to animal shelters? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I appeal to you about the protection of animal welfare and the protection of dogs as man's best friend. At present, the state is only financially supporting the pedigree settlements, which usually put captured dogs to sleep after two to three weeks. Fortunately, there are shelters in Hungary that save them from anesthesia and seek a loving host, but these shelters do not receive state aid to support their sacrifice. Every day they struggle to survive, they work in mud and ice, they live on donations, taxes, 1 percent, which is very little and uncertain. Lost help from local authorities, but this is not common either. For their sake, I'm asking if they can ever count on government support, and if so, in what form. The following forms of assistance would require shelters. Since the European Union only supports completed shelters, the state could pre-finance a draft with appropriate precision so that EU funds can be made available afterwards. You could pay for the neutering of animals, which, depending on sex, could cost 9-18 thousand forints. The law could separate breeding animals from breeders, and the former activity should be limited, because dogs are made on the street for dog fighting. Why would these measures be good for the Hungarian State anyway? Have you ever considered what would happen in this country if there were no animal shelters and NGOs, and thousands of orphaned, runaway stray animals thrown out by irresponsible people and dog propagatings would cover the streets of large cities and settlements? Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you: what are your plans to support shelters? Is it expected that the law against propagating animals, the law against dog factories, would reduce the number of stray dogs? I think, Mr Secretary of State, that this is a very important question, because it regenerates stray animals, and if we could draw a line here, then this could be over. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-72	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó.
u2015-05-04-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you very much for your question, because animal welfare issues, including the welfare of stray animals, are extremely important to the Ministry. One of the most important legislative changes in recent years in this area is the need to microchip every dog over four months of age from 1 January 2013. This has significantly increased the effectiveness of the return of stray dogs. The only reliable and humane means of treating the stray population of dogs and cats and preventing unwanted reproductions is the neutering of animals. Recognizing this, our State Secretaryship and Nébih have concluded an agreement with the Faculty of Veterinary Science of St. Stephen's University, in which the university carries out the neutering of a thousand dogs living in an orphaned, approved animal shelter with the participation of veterinary students. [[13.00]] The aim of the programme is to increase the chance of adoption of animals and to encourage responsible livestock farming. In view of the positive experience, discussions are ongoing on the continuation of the programme as far as possible. As you have said, proper treatment of animals is primarily the responsibility of farmers. For this reason, the Ministry and the National Food Chain Safety Office consider it of particular importance to develop approaches to animal farming. That's why two years ago we launched the program "Free the owner." Finally, I think it is important to mention that, given the importance of the problems with animal shelters and stray animals, a draft regulation on stray animals is under preparation, which we hope can solve a number of problems in this area. Thank you very much for asking. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-74	Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László L. Simon will answer the question on behalf of the Minister of State, Mr János László, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congressman. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-05-04-75	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There are more and more sad signs of the decline in the protection of nature and cultural heritage in Hungary. In recent years, changes to the legislation of the Fidesz-KDNP administration have increased the interest of large investors over cultural aspects. We have seen this in recent years, for example, in the case of the castle of Győr, when a three-storey hall garage was built in the middle of a historic cultural memorial, destroying most of the Renaissance castle remains. But in the same way, the discovery of the Árpád tombs in Orosház was in jeopardy. The latest example is the reconstruction of the Dome in Szeged. Here, too, unparalleled medieval sacral remains were destroyed, completely ignoring archaeological and heritage considerations. The county government office, as a administrative authority, made a decision in the interest of investors when it decided not to preserve the artifacts, but to dismantle them. Instead of archaeological exploration, only surveillance was allowed. Moreover, there is currently a proposal before Parliament to speed up the implementation of priority transport infrastructure investments. Technically, they would legitimize this practice, which was followed most recently in connection with the devastation in Szeged. According to the proposal, which I quote:. In the course of archaeological observation at the time of carrying out the investment, the unexpected occurrence of an archaeological site or artifact should not hinder the pace of the execution. Here's the end of the quote. So they can destroy anything that interferes with the investment. Road construction can't wait, and protection of archaeological treasures doesn't matter. Dear Secretary of State, How long will the interests of large investors continue to be put ahead of cultural heritage considerations? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-04-76	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, who will answer the question of his representatives.
u2015-05-04-77	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I find it unworthy that you are accusing the government of the lack of or insufficient application of cultural heritage, which spends more than HUF 100 billion on historic protection, which has announced a national castle programme, which has announced a national fortress programme, which is developing a national Hausmann plan, and which has renovated the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music in recent years, has renovated the Castle Close, and I can still list the key values that we have given to the wide audience. Dear fellow Member, The truth is that even the assumption of the question feeds or starts from a faulty base. You asked how long we should put the interests of the investors against each other and the aspects of heritage protection. It is not about the interests of large investors, but about the realisation of large investments. You have to build a road. You are beating us up because we are not building a road, where we are being whipped for not building proper underground garages and the rest, and where we are being whipped for what archaeological artifacts are being destroyed, while no significant archaeological value has been destroyed during our government. We are not talking about large investors, but we are actually talking about major investments that are important for the national economy, where, in most cases, the state itself is the investor and not one of the large companies. In the case of Orosháza, 170 graves are known. Here, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the archaeological staff of the city for the strain they have done to explore it. There's nothing lost here. And in the case of Szeged, I can tell you that everything was legal and regular, it is not true what you claim that an important sacral memorial was destroyed. These are some of the stones that have been highlighted and will be presented later. So it's not worth untrue. Thanks to God, heritage protection works well with the investor side. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, What kind of government help can employees of the Human Services Centre in East Hungary expect in Martfű? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The staff of the Human Services Centre in East Hungary were forced to terminate their employment and employment. They quit because they couldn't get their wages for months. In this way, they are obviously in a difficult situation personally, but through them are also those who have been cared for. But this story is not only true of Martfű; many settlements in Borsod-Abaúj Zemplén county have been affected in this sense by those who care for others, who care for others. The date was 1 January 2015, and already in December there were difficulties, but when they did not have access to their wages, these people had access to their rights. Because of the need to take care of themselves and their families, those who gave home assistance to others, who cared for the elderly, who were shopping for them, who were paying for their medicines, or who even took part in the care directly. The truth is that today, as it were, no one officially cares for the people with whom they were engaged, but the conscience carried them on, and many of them care for these people without money, even without payment. Unlike this government, which neither provides for them nor for those who are well cared for, nor for those who are well cared for. It's not random that I have three simple, short questions, and I want an exact answer to that. On the one hand, when will, say, with government help, stand up for the unpaid wages that have accumulated in recent months? On the other hand, what direct government help can these people expect from providing help and from the people to whom they have helped? When will care and home assistance finally be provided? Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-04-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is indeed a problem that has had to be dealt with for months, as it is a question of people. The situation itself was entirely created outside the State Maintenance System and was previously performed by the Human Services Centre of the Educational-Social Service Centre of the Hungarian Islamic Community, East Hungary, for social catering and home assistance. So he didn't provide boarding services, just these two methods, social catering and home assistance. Both the Hungarian Treasury and the National Rehabilitation Social Office (NRSZH) carried out investigations at this maintenance company, these institutions. It has been found that there are serious infringements. For this reason, the Board of Directors of the Hungarian State Treasury filed a complaint with the National Tax and Customs Office. This is why criminal proceedings have started here and the payment of public funds has been stopped in parallel with criminal proceedings. Obviously, if there is a non-State institution that is likely to have used public funds and resources in breach of the rules, then until this situation is clarified, consideration should be given to, and even in this case the payment of public funds has been stopped. At the same time, it is important that the care of those who have received care in this way be undisturbed. [[13.10]] It is therefore important to say that, although this institution has volunteered to carry out these functions here, it is, however, the municipal authorities already have an obligation to take over these tasks, to care for these people either in terms of home assistance or in terms of catering, and if the criminal proceedings continue to take place in this way, then, obviously, the jobs of these people can also be transferred to the institutions of the municipalities, as these beneficiaries must continue to be cared for and provided for and continue their activities here. So no one was left without care, the municipality took over this task. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-82	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What will happen to you, ETO? - Or how does Fidesz manage to destroy another Hungarian football club with a long history? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-05-04-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Csaba Tarsoly and the financial scandals of the Quaestor Group have put the ETO Football Club of Győr in a hopeless financial situation, so far it is a well-known fact. I'm sure you won't be starting the next season at NB I. So it seems that the latest Fidesz-MSZP financial slut has completely ruined another big-time sports club this time, and if nothing else, it is because it has allowed politics to cover for years the kind of financial machination that has been going on in the background. I think your friendship with Csaba Tarsoly is well-known, but this friendship here or there, it is absolutely necessary to clarify this situation. Nor is it comforting that the mayor of Győr was able to say only this to an interested question: "But if we can't find a solution for anything, then we have to plow the field. I find it disappointing that troubled financial entrepreneurs can destroy our country's long-standing clubs with a serious political background. Tarsoly's good relationship with Fidesz leaders is well-known, and it would be nice to have that cleared up. In addition to the professional football club, the future of supply has also been compromised, and let me focus on this, although not only the ETO played an important role in Győr's life as a first-class club, but also the training of young people and children. We are talking about more than 400 young people in this case, and their future is uncertain. This story raises a number of questions. For example, what steps are to be taken now and in the future in order to prevent such a case from happening again? Will there be accountability, and if there is, who will be affected, or will the politicians finally be able to do so? What about the Győri ETO, the supplies? Tarsoly's interrogation was supposed to be videotaped, and we'd like to know about it, because after a similar interview with the Kulcsar, these footage was leaked, because it was in your interest at the time. When will Hungarian football finally be cleaned from the shady mobsters and the fidesz politicians that cover them? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to point out that so far the sport issue, the replacement issue, has been one of the few issues here in the Hungarian Parliament, which has always been on the agenda regardless of party affiliation. I think the right direction would be to keep this going and not try to repolitise the issue of sport and drag everything into it, honourable Member, which may not belong there. With regard to the Quaestor case, it must be said that the first task for the government was obviously to help the victims. Here in Parliament, too, we urgently submitted a bill that we could return the funds of every small investor up to HUF 30 million, or at least the capital or the value of his bond, which would have damaged them. As you know, 32 thousand investors have been saved by this bill, and we have created a separate debt management fund precisely to give small investors access to the money they saved from their monthly wages. This was done, since claims of a value not exceeding HUF 30 million must be taken into account at capital value and the bonds at nominal value in the basis for the settlement of claims by the Quaestor-harmed. Compared to this, a completely different story is the situation of the other part of Quaestor's pregnant legacy, the ETO of Győri. Obviously, the sports club must take all measures to involve sponsors, to involve a sponsor that will keep the license of the Hungarian Football Association. This is primarily the task of the sports club, the government focused on the victims in the first place, but we trust that the leadership of the sports club and the management of economic governance will also find a way to keep the club and especially its supplies alive and to make it more prosperous throughout the country and Győr. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-86	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What is the reason why the land of the 230-year-old Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates is taken away? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-05-04-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't know if it's clear enough for everyone that 230 years ago there was a stud, primarily created for defence purposes at that time, that has now become two independent businesses. One half of it became Ménesbirtok Zrt., which deals with seed production, high-employment agricultural sectors and meat, has dairy cattle, and also became Mezőhegyes State Ménes Lófarmer and Sales Ltd., which is state-owned, and this is the one that carries on horse breeding. Where appropriate, we are talking about the first one, which is practically one of the large state farms, because this was not only one of the largest agricultural organizations with regional impact as a local employer and a state economy in the years before Trianon, but also in the years of the communist regime. After privatisation, he maintained this position: one of the largest regional employers, the largest local business tax payer at municipal level, and he is now losing an increasing share of his estate in the system of land lease applications. I tried to ask my questions very, very specifically so that they could be answered clearly and clearly. What is the guarantee that the existing values, the long tradition of animal farming - not mixed with Mezőhegyesi Állami Ménes Lóvérő és Értésítő Kft. Your valuable work - irrigation, destruction of seed production - won't happen? Second question: what is the guarantee that the new rental system will create at least as much employment as before for the local community? Has the government calculated the impact of the rental system on the labour market? It ensured that new tenants would maintain at least as many jobs as before.? What investigation has the Ministry carried out that more agricultural jobs will be created than before? Please inform the responder of the new values created in the new system of public leases and whether it is possible to expect that the privatization squad, known as the Dirty 12, will have the same fate as the stud property, or simply that drastic intervention depends on which government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In its privatisation process, recovery took place. That's what I'd expect answers for. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, answers the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, As you mentioned, Mezőhegyesi State Ménesbirtok Company split in 2004 and one of them is Mezőhegyesi Ménesbirtok Zrt., a 100% private company. It became the company that deals with cattle farming and crop production, while the other company that is the 100% state-owned Mezőhegyesi State Ménes Lórő és Értésítő Kft. It became a traditional activity, which was created almost 230 years ago. I was very surprised by the question of my dear fellow Member, because I knew the LMP as always standing up for small farms, traditional livestock farming, traditional agriculture farmers, and now he's worried about the fate of a large plant. I would just like to ask you to decide what we really want to support, and if we really want to pursue economic policy along the same philosophy as supporting small, medium and family businesses and agricultural enterprises, then there is no way to say that you cannot touch a public land lease that expires in 2017. The truth, my dear fellow Member, is that each of these land lease applications will be touched, not only because the government has decided to draw 80:20 percent of the share of small plants and large businesses in Hungary, because we see that we want these public areas to be in good hands, and the more it is not possible to protect a local community than to give local people jobs and stability. I am also thinking of young farmers, who will work there for at least 20 years on the ground and settle down, thus answering the question of what new values will be created by handing in state lands. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We believe that the lands of the Hungarian state are in the best place in the hands of the Hungarian people. Thank you for asking.
u2015-05-04-90	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Will the school of the Bishops be taken away? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[13.20]]
u2015-05-04-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Without abstention or opposition vote, regardless of party affiliation, he was unanimously rejected by the body of representatives of the Bishop's Council of Hungary 2015. CHAPTER IV Thursday, 16 October 2015 at an extraordinary meeting of the Reformed Church 2015. CHAPTER IV On the 13th of October, he received a request from the city to evacuate the properties of Calvin Square No. 8 to the church. The well-known 113-year-old Calvin Square Primary School has been operating in the building for many decades. At the extraordinary meeting, the Members called the Church's request, among other things, morally incomprehensible and unfounded. They explained that there is a living, well-functioning school there, and the structure of the school does not want to be changed by the municipality. If those buildings could not be used by students at Calvin Square, it would be a disproportionate change for children and parents. In recent weeks, the local government and the faculty have reconfirmed 100 percent of the rejection in order for the church to take over the school. In relation to last week's parental polls - 327 children attend school - 312 parents rejected it. That's just because there's a parent who has two kids who go there. One parent voted in favour and one abstained, with a 99.36 percent rejection to allow the church to take over the school. I ask you, Secretary of State, whether the will of the municipality, parents and the will of the faculty will be taken into account. I ask you, Secretary of State, do you think it's ethical for parents to be confronted with this far-reaching issue of enrollment? I ask Mr. Secretary of State whether the school of the Bishops' Ladyess will remain. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-04-92	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, We have tried to create a system in the new Public Education Act that gives at least the right of opinion to all local stakeholders, but in this case, as you obviously know, there is a special situation here, there is common, shared operation and maintenance, and therefore the local government has the possibility of veto in this case as well. On the one hand, this school is now maintained by the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, but its operator is the Bishop's Lady Municipal Municipality, precisely because the property is owned by a local government. The whole case began because a request was received from the Reformed parish of the Bishops' Lady to take over the seat of this state-owned school. Obviously, everyone can use such a request. That is why the whole process of opinion was launched, which was also reported by the Congresswoman. As I have said, any restructuring, maintenance change can only take place in response to the views of all those involved. In fact, since the operator is the local government here, so with the agreement of the local government - here I would quote the Public Education Act 83. § 4a, which we accepted here in Parliament a few years ago - if the change of maintenance concerns the obligation to operate the local government or creates an obligation to operate it, the local government concerned shall have the right of agreement at the time of the decision, unless the acceptance of the maintenance rights of that public education institution by the State institution maintenance centre is essential for the safe organisation of public education tasks, or, failing that, children and pupils would have a disproportionate burden. Obviously, there's a first part of this paragraph that needs to be considered. So, to sum up, here the local government has the decision, he has the options under the Public Education Act. We made such a public education law precisely so that the local government could have a decisive word in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-04-94	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why doesn't family allowance also apply to children studying in higher education? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2015-05-04-95	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, it is an existing problem in Hungary that some young people have the knowledge and ambition to get a diploma, but the financial situation of the family does not allow their children to go to higher education. Of course, your answer is student loans, but understandably, many people are afraid of debt. Yet, the common goal is to have as many graduates as possible in our country with suitable skilled workers. Therefore, Jobbik believes that all help must be given in order to avoid young people who are unable to graduate because of their financial situation. There are many examples that could help those who want to learn. Of these, I would like to point out an old proposal by Jobbik, which is to give families a family allowance for young people in higher education, as this is not the case under the current rules. This also has a reading that, although you consider it important and support for a child to reach the end of high school, you do not think that you can get a degree, or you think that everyone can solve it from their own pockets. Yet, the fact that a diploma is a huge financial burden for a family is evident. Cost charges, housing costs, books, not to mention buying everyday food, are all a serious burden for students, so it is no coincidence that so many people are forced to lend to students. At the same time, I would like to say once again that in many cases these costs have already deterred children coming from poorer families in advance. In our opinion, it would therefore be important to support families with family allowances for young people in higher education institutions, of course only up to a certain age, for example, after a 28-year-old university student, this would be an exaggeration. Dear Secretary of State, I ask why the family allowance is not extended to children in higher education until a certain age in order to teach their children as many families as possible. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government uses a variety of means to enable everyone who has the intention and the knowledge to get into higher education and, if possible, graduate from university and college. That is why we have guaranteed state scholarships that they will be able to complete the university, college, for free, because we believe that this is a real incentive for people to get into higher education, even if they are in difficult circumstances. To cover the various costs, the Student Loan1 was created under the first Orbán government with extremely low interest rates, and for those who are not enrolled in state-funded or state scholarship training to avoid being stranded for financial reasons, the Student Loan2 with very low interest rates was created for them, precisely so that everyone could get into higher education. In addition, I could say many other incentives to the Member, which also facilitates the acquisition of a diploma. But if I approach the family allowance to assess whether the family allowance system evaluates the fact that a person is studying in higher education, although it is legally possible to pay a family allowance to children with special educational needs up to the age of 23, but the family allowance system also indirectly takes into account if a person is studying in a higher education institution. For example, if you look at a family with three children, where one child is a university student, and the other two are, let's say, younger, so 10 and 15 years old, then if you have a university child, you will not receive a family allowance of HUF 26 600 and a family tax allowance of HUF 20,000, overall it would be HUF 46 600, but HUF 32 200 family allowance against HUF 26 600, and in tax relief you will receive up to HUF 66,000 instead of HUF 20,000. So the overall financial advantage of the family compared to HUF 46 600 amounts to HUF 98 thousand, precisely because he does not know the family allowance for a child of university age. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] use the family, but you can apply for the other two children (The president tells you the time has elapsed by jogging the bell.) , as if requiring a family allowance of three children, so it continues to be an advantage for the university student... [[They're shutting off his mike.]]
u2015-05-04-98	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. Now, we're going to talk about immediate questions. It's 13:29. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What do you intend to do to recover the savings of over 27,000 law enforcement, national security and defence workers? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the Secretary of State as a responding person or asks the Minister for his answer in person. [[13.30]]
u2015-05-04-99	In the hope, Mr President, that I will receive an exceptional reply, I accept it. Thank you.
u2015-05-04-100	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As memorable, Péter Szijjártó could have saved the assets of one of the foreign firms from the fallen Quaestor even at the last minute. What Péter Szijjártó could do, the Honvéd Health Fund could no longer succeed, even though they took immediate action as soon as they heard from the media about Buda-Cash's bankruptcy. About HUF 1.8 billion of the health fund was immediately transferred from their account at the DRB bank. As a result, although the balance of the health fund has been reduced, the money transferred has never been transferred to the other account. According to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's explanation, the transfer was not completed due to the restrictions already imposed, the balance of the health bank was restored. This may seem comforting at first sight, but the answers to further questions revealed that the money from the health fund had been wiped out by the bankruptcy of Buda-Cash, or, as you would say, gone. The health fund could only obtain its money in the distant future at the end of the winding-up procedure if it had something to pay for it. In the absence of a billion-dollar amount, the operation of the Honvéd Health Fund has been paralyzed. This concerns the payment of over 27,000 soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers at the health insurance office, which may result in surgery, endangering people's lives and health. These people did not stock exchanges, but chose a form of government-supported savings, and set aside their money specifically to preserve their health. You have created a separate law to compensate investors for risky Quaestor bonds with high yields. In the meantime, however, they stand by and watch tens of thousands of employees of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Defence lose their health savings. Dear Secretary of State, The MNB's response clearly shows that the situation can only be dealt with by legislation and by legislative amendment, so I ask: does the Ministry of Interior initiate the amendment of the Quaestor Act in order to obtain this HUF 1.8 billion from the compensation fund? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-04-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Two weeks ago, on April 20, 2015, you asked the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question on the same subject, to which Dr. Ádám Balog, Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank, answered here within the walls of this House. In this response, Vice-President Mr.Vice-President said that the National Bank of Hungary is the 2013 CXXXIX. Law 80. § (1) of the Act provides that the persons concerned will not have access to their savings until the liquidation of the Regional Bank of Transdanubia and its group of banks has been completed. We are aware that as a result of the current situation, many people are in difficulty, but the Hungarian National Bank has an obligation to act according to the law. As regards the Ministry of Interior, 1023 law enforcement professionals from the Ministry of Interior are involved in this case. I would also like to say, honourable Member, that the Ministry of Interior has neither management nor supervisory authority over the Honvéd Voluntary Supplementary Health Insurance Fund, which is the 1993 XCVI. an organisation operating independently under the law, with a municipal authority. However, because of the large number of members associated with wallets and other wallets and co-organisations, it is important as an employer to preserve the savings of the cash registers, so it does not matter to the Ministry of Interior whether these people have access to their money. The Ministry of Interior shares the position of the Hungarian National Bank in this situation under the current legislation. We are confident that, following the winding-up procedure, these funds will be made available to those involved. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-105	Dear Secretary of State, I asked you a simple question, and you didn't answer it again. The vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank said it here in this room, and he did point to you that this could not be dealt with under the current laws, but by amending the law. My simple question was whether you are amending the Quaestor Fund, the Quaestor Act, in order for tens of thousands of innocent employees of BM and HM to obtain this money or not to initiate it. He couldn't answer that. Mr. Secretary, it seems to me from your response and your behavior that that Quaestor Act and that Quaestor Fund, along with leaving everyone else, tens of thousands on the side of the road, has told me nothing but to pay you, your friends, possibly your family members, while leaving everyone else on the side of the road. Your answer is unacceptable, and I think it would be worth reconsidering my question once again, to consider once again to the Minister of the Interior whether they are willing to move their little finger and bring in a legislative amendment to the House to facilitate and help their own workers. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-05-04-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the tone and the assumption that you had in your earlier statement that the heads of the Ministry of Interior or anyone here put their buddies' savings first and leave anyone on the side of the road. I would like to say that this is not the case, and I reject this assumption. It's completely unfounded and unfounded. As far as the current situation is concerned, I would like to say that the Ministry of Interior is acting on the basis of the legislation in force. As far as professional staff are concerned, it was adopted by Parliament on 14 April with your support. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You won't initiate it?]] - what we are thanking you for, by the way - the career law, we trust that in this matter, too, if you listen to my reply, I will say that we are confident that on this very important issue we will also sympathise with the relevant cashiers. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It matters a lot...]] There's a way to get their money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-108	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What has changed?" It's an address. Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, has appointed Minister for Human Resources to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-05-04-109	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-110	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. After 24 hours it is untenable to address the situation of the nurses. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2015-05-04-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! There is no doubt that the matter of care is after 24 hours, the case and the situation of nurses are untenable. This hopeless situation was confirmed by the conference held last week by the Hungarian Nursing Association, where the points, areas, which contain the most serious discourse and the most serious challenge were discussed. Here, the profession's Gremen identified the three areas, such as the issue of wages, the issue of working conditions and the question of replacement, on which it can be established: the situation of health workers is indeed after 24 hours, including the situation of nurses. As far as wages are concerned, it is almost common knowledge that the vast majority of nurses, 70 percent, live on a guaranteed minimum wage, are only 10 percent higher than the minimum wage. In terms of their working conditions, they are struggling with a lack of tools, working under stressful, psychological, physical stressful conditions, inadequately secure jobs, and one of the most regrettable: according to a new research, healthcare workers are one of the most unhealthy people and workers and the least healthy workers of Hungarian society. The replacement presents the same challenge, since the average age of the nurses is slowly reaching 50 years, and ten thousand people will be missing from the system in ten years' time. Jobbik believes that we should speak honestly about these problems, issues, the government will keep its ears shut, keep quiet about the questions, don't want to see the nurses working in black. We also need to be honest about what solutions can be found to these problems in the tight budget space. Jobbik will show solidarity with nurses and invite everyone to the national demonstration on 12 May. On this occasion, let us ask Minister, Mr Secretary: why do you not wish to hear the problems? After five years of Fidesz government, why are we still here? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[13.40]]
u2015-05-04-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister Zoltán Balogh will answer the immediate question. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-05-04-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I might even feel serious if you had listed at least one or two of the measures that have provided concrete assistance to health professionals, whose situation the government, of course, not only understands, but also considers it a duty to improve their working conditions and their financial situation. Why did you forget to remember, when you said five years ago, that in 2011 the first measures in terms of income from public health product tax included the payment of the three-month allowance for healthcare providers for higher risk, higher workload jobs, assistants you are talking about, related to your job allowance? This one-off allowance was applied to all health workers regardless of the employer. These three-month amounts were taken out of the E Fund with a single payment. This meant that those who were entitled to a 150 per cent allowance received a one-off allowance of HUF 90,000, the 120s received HUF 72 thousand, and the 35 per cent received a one-off allowance of HUF 21 600. This affected 68 100 people, we paid HUF 5.6 billion in total. The following measure: In 2012-2013, 95 thousand health workers were paid in two stages, including around 75 thousand health professionals. The salary increase of medical graduates exceeded HUF 41,000 gross per month. This means that between 2011-2013 and two years ago, the average monthly income of health professionals increased by 24 percent. A total of HUF 76 billion of HUF 690 million has been paid over the two years in connection with the wage development of the health sector. Important [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the health sector promotion system, which we have developed with the involvement of professional organisations. There's still work to be done, and you're right about that. [[The president's ringing again.]] but that we would have done nothing in the last five years, I consider this to be an exaggeration even for an opposition representative. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-114	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-115	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm sorry you couldn't have heard the Secretary of State and even the Prime Minister explain this matter earlier. Even then, we have said that we are telling you not to hide with the numbers of the past; with the data and actions of the present, we want them to answer the problem with the activities to be carried out in the future. You've taken the doctor's vision, you've taken the nurse's vision and all the workers' visions. It's been three weeks since the wake-up call, the nurses and nurses have been waiting three weeks for the nurse's spring, if you'd like to know what kind of answer you're going to give. They hide with the numbers of the past and its inefficiencies. In your rejoinder, please tell me about the future, and tell me what the Ministry is planning to do, so that this unblessed state, after 24 hours, can finally be resolved. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-117	There's no greater proof of deaf dialogue than reading something without hearing what I said. So the past for you is that a year and a half ago, income in this area increased by 24 percent. If this is the past, then I really think that every year we could achieve a 10-20-30 percent increase in income, and I'm sure everyone would like it. You have also said that I think that it is a good governance if you do not promise, but look at the opportunities that economic growth offers, and you are not devoting the country to loans, while you are taking pretend measures. During the next period, we will launch from the Human Resources Development Operational Programme the catching-up nursing vocational training programme for those who have the old qualifications prior to the OKJ training, which is HUF 2.5 billion; 14 thousand employees will receive free of charge HUF 440 million of state aid to relieve compulsory further training. Our next program in 2015 is the scholarship programme - HUF 2.2 billion - as you also talked about replacements. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And it's at least as important to renovate the nursing homes that we're preparing our program for right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: It could also be a program to go to a health institution and talk to the workers there! Zoltán Balog: You are so smart!]]
u2015-05-04-118	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Prime Affairs an immediate question:. Why has the port investment in Balatonfenyves been approved? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr L. Simon László Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or whether he is personally asking the Minister for an answer.
u2015-05-04-119	The best, thank you very much. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-05-04-120	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The water of Lake Balaton is wide, the bridge is narrow on it, / The leaf does not ring if the wind does not blow. They deserve me to punish you, to say this in song. [[Defiance. Let's hear it.]] But I missed this one. This wide Balaton water now begins to get narrower and we start to worry about it, but mostly locals, who for 18 years unfortunately didn't realize what was coming, but now when the machines showed up there with a huge amount of stuffing to make the pier, more and more people are paying attention to it. Everyone knows Lake Balaton, and imagine four full soccer fields, four acres, as we enter the Lake Balaton 500 metres at Balatonfenyves, and we start building a port the size of which is rare in Monaco. There are already photos of this on the Internet as they cover the debris inwards for the construction of these piers, which takes place in the context of fully legal permits, and this programme also receives nearly 800 million EU funding. Obviously, the question is not for me why it is built on the basis of legal licenses, but how it could have been granted permission for one of these. How could an EU Birds Directive and a Habitats Directive have been approved for such a development in 4 hectares of Natura 2000 territory, so that I do not know what, because I do not call it a professional authority, the environmental authority acting as an environmental authority, it all says that this has no environmental impact. So, on 4 hectares, the Balaton is ejected, and this is done by requiring the Authority not to be able to do so during the spawning season, and then, on the first date, the entire dredging activity is extended, and the Authority says that it has no environmental impact. I would be very curious to know on what grounds the authority granted the authorisation, and on what basis did it think that the removal of 65,000 cubic metres of sludge does not involve not only environmental tasks and risks, but does not actually impose a task on society. I think this obviously means the collapse of the environmental institutional system, but I'd be happy if it wasn't. I would expect the Secretary of State's reply on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-122	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-05-04-123	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In front of my soul were the machines that, to quote you, appeared with a huge amount of filling. It's a loop filling and a sausage filling, which I've been watering, but let's be serious, and let's look at the facts. On 16 October 2014, the request for an establishment permit was received by the shipping department of the National Transport Authority and the first instance decision was taken on 7 November 2014. The government office takes part in the first round, in the first round, not as an authorising officer, but as a administrative authority. I must inform you that the mederman, the branch of the Central Transdanubian Water Directorate, has contributed to the start of the construction work on 15 February 2015. In accordance with the legal requirements, public authorities were involved in the issuing of the following administrative resolutions: Somogy County Government Office Marcali District Office Public Health Institute, Balatonfenyves notary as building authority - not only state but other bodies were involved - Fejér County Directorate for Disaster Protection, Baranya County Directorate for Disaster Protection, Ministry of Defence Authority and Somogy County Government Office of Kaposvár district building and heritage protection. I am able to inform you, honourable Member, that the authorities have not found any reason to exclude environmental authorisation in relation to the disposal of mud, i.e. dredging sludge, in the project, and that the significant environmental impact of the activity has not been claimed to be necessary, and therefore it has not been considered necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment procedure. What you've said is your opinion, the professional authority has a different opinion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2015-05-04-124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I will give the floor to the Member in a minute's time frame.
u2015-05-04-125	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, and I am beginning to understand it now, because if Mr Secretary of State had visions of sausage and sausage fillings, then the authorities could probably have done the same, so they did not think that this had an environmental impact. So you probably didn't think someone was gonna wear rocks here and put them in the Balaton, because the problem is that you told me how many authorities you've been to, and that's what's worrying. If no one in so many authorities thought that this would have an environmental impact, if no one in so many authorities thought that social consultation would have to take place here, if no one in so many authorities noticed that Natura 2000 impact assessment would have to be a mandatory element of development, this clearly shows that these authorities acted incompetently. The fact that my claim and the Authority's claim are well founded cannot be compared here, but I can say one thing for sure: the administrative authorities from which one of them says that the impact of the investment on the water quality and wildlife of the lake can only be estimated, but it does not estimate, and the other says that there are no environmental impacts, are obviously completely incompetent and should not be entrusted with such decisions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-04-126	Thank you. I give the floor back to Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-127	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I didn't say it had no environmental impact or no environmental impact. I was talking about the fact that, in the current legislative environment, there are no harmful consequences in the context of the legislative interpretation framework. That's what I'm talking about. I quote once again: there is no reason to exclude environmental authorisations for dredging sludge on these properties. This does not imply that it has no environmental impact. How could it not have an environmental impact, Congressman? It's not bad, is it? What you visualize doesn't correspond to reality. We are well aware that the excavation material that was removed during the construction process will be placed in a landfill with a permit to set up in the territory of the Bereks in Fenyves. The chemical composition of the so-called Berek water flowing from the Rigó ditch does not pose a threat to the water quality of Lake Balaton, does not have an adverse effect on the water of the beach, and does not limit the use for different purposes, including the traffic of the boat port. That's what I can say, Your Honour. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-128	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vas, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Is the removal of hazardous waste started? What is the rate of repairing the Scented Road site? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Zoltán Kovács Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-05-04-129	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-05-04-130	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-131	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In Ferencváros, Scented Road, the plant has been out of operation for a long time. Unfortunately, however, more than 2,000 tonnes of hazardous waste remained on the site. Waste accumulated over many decades is extremely harmful to the living environment, so cleaning the plant will not be delayed. The case requires extremely effective and coordinated intervention by the determining bodies. The primary task is to transport and dispose of hazardous waste. This can be followed by cleaning the soil of the Scented Road site from further harmful substances, eliminating the environmental risks posed by them. The rapid procedure is also particularly important because the soil could have been significantly damaged by the leakage of harmful substances in the area, but during the seven-and-a-half-year liquidation, I know that the appointed insolvency or liquidation commissioner has done nothing to remedy the damage, despite the fact that the environmental authorities have repeatedly obliged him to do so and that the company in liquidation has been fined - as a result of the failure to comply with the obligation. Dear Secretary of State, Cleaning the Ferencváros site of the Budapest Chemical Works in liquidation is not only the IX. it is in the interests of people living in the district and surrounding districts, as it is important for everyone not to suffer permanent damage to domestic soil, groundwater and related environments. The shipment of hazardous waste started last Thursday. I ask the Secretary of State about the rate of transport of hazardous waste from the site and the cleaning of the soil. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, who will answer the immediate question. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-133	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, Thank you very much for asking. I agree with you that neither the soil nor the groundwater nor the environment can suffer permanent damage. This is why it is important not only for the people who live there, but also for everyone. This story did not start today, but no matter how strange it was, 120 years ago, then a factory started its chemical activity there, which then continued for a long time until the winding-up proceedings began, until 2007, and even after that, until 2009. During that period, he was also authorised to store dangerous substances in barrels by the then environmental inspectorate. There was a procedure to clean up this area in the framework of an EU proposal. It was done in such a strange way that the soil was partly replaced, but the hazardous material was not removed, so this danger remains. In recent years, the integration of the Government Office has taken place, and on 1 April the Green Authorities have been admitted to the Government Office. The Government Office immediately launched a review of this activity, although the Green Authority has consistently fined or filed a criminal complaint against chemical works and against the later tenant. The prosecution is still ongoing today, and on this basis the NFM has also examined where this 1.4 billion has gone in recent years. What I can tell you, Congressman, is that the activity has started continuously. It's happening today, even today. Six to nine months is what this activity, the transport of hazardous waste, is completed. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-135	Thank you for the floor. It is true that this is not the harvest of the last one or two years, i.e. the hazardous waste generated there, but the harvest of many decades, more than a hundred years, it is certainly reassuring that the removal of hazardous waste has begun, and it is clearly necessary to investigate later whether, in the last seven and a half years, any measures have been taken to eliminate the conditions, to avoid environmental damage or to reduce the environmental burden. Of course, it is also necessary to remove not only hazardous waste but also soil pollution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-136	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-137	That's right, that's right. Honourable Congressman, Not only do hazardous waste have to be transported, but also soil changes have to be carried out, then this activity will be complete. Consider that for a decade and a half, virtually no meaningful activity has taken place. Now, on the basis of the money to be provided by the government, the removal of hazardous waste and, in the future, the re-allocation of the soil were unnecessary, since hazardous waste, as I said, remained there. I would also like to say that, on the basis of the polluter-pays principle, it is indeed the polluter who has to pay for this, but if we are waiting for this to happen, the chemical works will have to be eradicated for a long time. This was recognised by the government as being ahead of it, performing this task, and then accounting for what had happened there in the coming period. And if there are others responsible, and we hope that the police will find out, they will be punished. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-138	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Black country, not a dream - or how long will the Hungarian health care survive? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, I ask you to wait a moment. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-05-04-139	Yes, thank you.
u2015-05-04-140	You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.00]]
u2015-05-04-141	Dear Secretary of State, I start with the words of Mihály Babits: / Where everything was black, / Everything was black, but not just outside: / To the bone, to the marrow black, / Black, / Black, black, black, black. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The way I see it, health care is in ruins, no matter how they try to color this picture. There may be few people in this country who have not heard of the nurse working at Péterfy Sándor Street Hospital who cried weeks ago in a TV report about the conditions under which she was forced to work, because of regular overwork she hardly has time to deal with her family, and the hospital doesn't even pay her overtime. His superiors said that there was nothing wrong with the overtime accounts, but his nurses stood up for his claims. Recently, a demonstration on Facebook among nurses, several of them went to work in black clothes, thus demonstrating against the bad health situation. According to the news, the initiative's superiors did not allow him to work in black clothes, so he dropped it, but thought about quitting because they would not allow him to demonstrate it. At the same time, the wave of protests began, part of which is that groups promoting black-clothes action are increasing on social portals, and more and more photos are being taken from different health institutions. The pictures show the workmen wearing a black T-shirt or a mourning ribbon. The moves of solidarity sisters and others are not about one case, but about the unsustainable situation of health workers. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you, when will the pay of the nurses be settled, when they will ensure payment of overtime money in every hospital, when they will provide adequate cover for this. I also ask: should all affected hospital workers sue their workplaces, as the Egerians did, to receive the rightful missed allowance, and when do they provide enough resources for health care not only to get air but also to survive? Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-142	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was not disputed to anyone, I believe, five years ago, how difficult it was for this government to inherit health care. If I could give you just one example: now the Hungarian economy has managed to put the budget in a position to allocate 60 billion forints to the government in the next few weeks in order to settle the debt of hospitals. This HUF 60 billion is a gigantic amount of money, but that's the amount of debt that the hospitals rolled in front of them. We hope that this will also help stabilize the situation in hospitals, and this will also improve the conditions for nurses who work in these hospitals. At the same time, we did not wait for such a large proportion of hospital debt to be settled through wage development. You know very well that we have introduced the public health product tax, more popularly known as the potato tax, to provide cover for the wage increase of healthcare workers and the increase in wages there. The wage development started in 2012, we continued in 2013, and the wage increases at that time were now incorporated into the budget and included as a base year after year. In the case of health professionals, the basic salary, such as a graduate, higher education health worker, increased by HUF 41,000 per month gross, and it can be said that about 95 thousand health workers have received an increase of HUF 76 billion from an additional source. This meant more than a quarter, a 24-27 percent increase in wages for healthcare workers. Of course, we have to continue this further, so we have to carry these wage increases at least as fast as we did in the previous five-year period. Obviously, we would like to do so, but we would like to do so, not out of credit, but in parallel with the performance of the economy. It is also important in relation to the system of health training re-launched in 2013, or the Hungarian Nursery Day of 19 February, which is the anniversary of the birth of Zsuzsanna Kossuth. I'd like to continue with the one-minute rejoinder from here. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-04-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-145	Mr. Secretary, I understand you need it from the performance of the economy. I see that there's money for a lot of other things - so be it for health care! If you have 760 million forints for piano, or you have 15 billion forints for Andy Vajna, so that you don't even have to connect your gaming machines to the NAV, if you have 10 million forints to buy tasers, then have money for health care, money for overtime, money for paying the Eger sisters' cafeteria! It would require a total of 200 million forints. And the head of the hospital says it's not his place to settle these bills. Well, who the hell if it's not the government? I mean, they nationalized all medical institutions. Look, I submitted this question in the form of interpellation a week and a half ago. Secretary of State, there's been such an exodus from health care that since I wrote my interpellation, 48 medical workers have left this country and hold on: some people are going to Romania. I can't accept your answer. [[András Tállai: Tale! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-05-04-146	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-147	Thank you very much for the floor. If you had finished with emigration, Mr President, I would like to say that five years ago, if we had been sitting here then, the number that would have been the number of emigration doctors in a week and a half would have been a bigger number. Or even three years ago, in the case of nurses, we would have said a much higher number. Thank God, in the case of doctors, two and a half years ago, and in the case of nurses a year ago, there was a slight reversal of the trend that was strengthened and muscling during your administration, and which meant an increasing number of immigrants. Now the number of official permits needed either for doctors or for nurses to take up work abroad is fortunately reduced. These are objective numbers, and you can read them on the Internet. But we still have a lot of work to do to improve working conditions for nurses, and I would also like to return to that. We would like to invest billions of dollars in this in the next period as part of the renovation programme of nurses' hostels. We spend 2.2 billion forints on a career guidance scholarship. It has already been said today that this profession is obviously getting old, so it is necessary for young people to choose it and go to nursing school. But above all, I would like to draw attention to the $60 billion hospital debt arrangement, which will provide the opportunity to pay local benefits. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-148	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Why does the accounts hurt? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian says yes.]] The congressman accepts the identity of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-04-149	Mr President, Dear House, During this period, the last settlement letters that were to be mailed to creditor financial institutions last week will be received. You can see what we have warned you of on several occasions that the government promises to reduce the burden of 10-20 percent for those who have been in debt, in parallel, but in contrast, it has allowed some 70 percent of the price difference since 2010 to fall on the victims' necks. It can be seen that the tenants of the house were the worst in numbers, but in many cases, it was a mass event that the basic capital of the debt was now, after the so-called settlement, more than the one received, even though for several years the persons concerned have paid with honor, even millions higher. The leader of one of the groups that organised the protest on the 7th honoured us with his letter, where he shared his specific case with the wider public. According to this, after the 13 million HUF 800 thousand loan was received, he calculated that if he paid all the money his bank demanded of him after the Fidesz settlement, he would pay a total of HUF 48 million until the end of the term. To 13.8, I'll say it again. So my question is specific and it is clear. After this set of accounting and accountability processes, what does the government intend to do, how does it intend to resolve this unsustainable situation? More specifically, what will be the fate of the unduly stolen millions, what will be the fate of the money left in the bank accounts, but in reality it is not theirs, as it is the money of the injured? My question is therefore concrete, and I look forward to a meaningful answer to that. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-04-150	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, the Fidesz-KDNP government, which was established in 2010, faced a serious situation, as it had to take on millions of people's foreign exchange loans in the sense that they had to provide a solution and a way out for these people. The first step was to stop this lending, not let other people get into this kind of trouble. And our other promise was that we would sort it out, we would sort it out so that it would be right legally, financially, and it wouldn't upset the country's financial balance. [[14.10]] This is what is happening today, because the accounts are not yet closed. In the next few days, hundreds of thousands of banks will receive a notification of settlement and forinting. In total, about 2 million notifications are sent to the banks concerned, financial institutions to customers, and so the banks pay back about HUF 1000 billion to these customers. On average, the rate of repayment will decrease by 20-25 percent, for example with a loan of HUF 5 million 600 thousand, the repayment of HUF 78,000 will decrease to HUF 56,000. In all cases, the settlement shall include the elimination of the exchange rate risk and the resulting damage shall be reimbursed to customers and the additional expenditure resulting from the unilateral interest rate increase to the client and shall be returned to the initial interest amounts. Of course, in the 2 million letters concerned, we can meet someone when the client is not satisfied with the settlement. Then our advice is that, according to the law, you should write to your bank immediately, within 30 days at the latest, and the bank will send him another settlement within 60 days, and that will open the appeal procedure. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-152	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-153	Dear Secretary of State, You've made a pact with the banks, now you're trying to spot the victims' eyes with one or two hundred thousand forints, but once again, through my 14 million forints example, the bank will get a 350 percent profit if the debtor pays it all the way. Last week on the news, we saw that a loan shark was arrested because he gave the money 100 percent interest. So 350 percent is acceptable? Based on your system, payments so far will be credited to the banks as a gift, as capital debt is often higher than at the time of admission. It can also be seen that several banks have written it in the letter, and I quote literally: So they admitted the financial fraud, the mistake we're talking about here. Our demand can be one thing: break the pact with the Banking Association, withdraw this financial waste called settlement, and then make these loans known as loans at the rate of admission, as this is the only arrangement for the return of financial waste to the sender. And if they can't do that and let the Hungarian people get rid of them, take their millions, then they are unworthy of the government of this country! [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-04-154	Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman Jobbikos, No one on the government's side or the pro-government benches, the Fidesz-KDNP, has promised Canaan in the case of foreign exchange creditors. That's what you promised. No one said there was no responsibility for the banks. There is, because a significant amount will be repaid in the course of the settlement. No one has said that the borrower has no responsibility in this matter. And no one said that the government had virtually no responsibility. In this spirit, however, we have made the laws that are now closing the issue of foreign exchange lenders. I think that it is possible to make promises here, to say nice, to say good things, to mislead voters - the socialists did the same, by the way, when people were brought into the matter of foreign exchange credentials - but to act responsibly and to close this matter responsibly, it must be done as the government and the two-thirds majority parliament of Fidesz-KDNP have done. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-156	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of KDNP, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister of Human Resources: Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for the answer personally.
u2015-05-04-157	I accept, thank you.
u2015-05-04-158	Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-05-04-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my speech, I would first like to pay tribute to the 18-year-olds who said their goodbyes to their secondary schools, graduated from their parents and teachers last weekend, as they have come to a significant turning point in their lives. I believe that there are few of us in this room, or there are people in this room whose children, grandchildren, acquaintances and relatives would not have gone into your high school today with great excitement, since graduation exams have begun. I myself am excited, as a former teacher, and as a former teacher, whose acquaintances and small friends are graduating, and I know how significant this is in their lives. Perhaps not everyone knows that it is one of the oldest institutions of our public education and education system, there have been graduation exams since 1851, and, at the time of its introduction, Hungarians have strongly protested against it, and then it is so organized in the education system that the system of public education is unimaginable without it. It would be interesting to mention the curiosities in the history of education. I would just like to point out one: just ten years ago, realizing the necessity of completing high school education on the one hand and opening the way to higher education, dividing the two functions to a certain extent and making the graduation exam two levels. It is also worth remembering that a series of scandals accompanied graduation reforms. They haven't been around lately, thank God. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether they are properly prepared for the graduation exam, how many will take the graduation exam, and, perhaps most importantly, how is the renewal of the graduation started earlier, another graduation reform. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-160	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, almost everyone is following the questions of graduation, who thinks back and forth about his studies, whether he could solve it today, or what he could write about literature, about certain items in history. And I think that for the time being, the graduation exam that started today has a double good echo, because in technical terms graduation exams have been successfully launched, and on the other hand, who have expressed their views on today's issues in Hungarian language and literature, they have generally highlighted its lifelikeness, that this is a different graduation exam than it was decades ago, more realistic, looking at the thinking of young people today, demanding, interesting or smarter than the previous system. So I think this graduation period has started well. Congresswoman mentioned who started the graduation exam today at eight o'clock, for whom we also wish very good luck. We remember the excitement of doing this, so let's hope you all do well. I am also pleased to say that the number of candidates for advanced exams has increased compared to last year's May-June exam period. So a lot of people are taking a high-level exam. Obviously, this also means that their interest in higher education institutions, their need for further education are high for young people, and the criticism of the government's policy over the past few years, which has been said by many to try to keep young people away from further education or higher education, is being denied by students themselves, as compared to the previous system, the new system has increased the number of applicants for higher education. So young people do want to learn. If you look at the Hungarian language and literature, today's subjects, then 77 975 mid-level exams, while on an elevated level 1904 examers started their 240-minute exam this morning. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-05-04-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-04-163	Thank you very much for your reply. Dear Secretary of State, These answers were reassuring, but the fact that more people apply each year for an elevated level examination means a lot of things. For me, for example, it means that there are a lot of young people today who are able and willing to take their studies seriously and with skill. Each year, the examination questions were a hit, and I know the questions, and they were really good. However, I would like to reiterate the opinion that the graduation reform in 2005 was a reform with many criticisms, that the general's mistakes remained, while the management of education has made a lot of improvements in the last four years. And I would like to rush and urge that a general be reviewed for graduations, so that we do not hear from university colleagues every day that young people are going to higher education with worse knowledge, which is, of course, an excess, but there is some truth in this too. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-05-04-164	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-165	Thank you very much. Let me take a step back from what the congresswoman said, because the government's intention - I say one more step back in the line of thought - is that if you enroll in a high school, you will also graduate high school, obviously in the vocational school, not to mention universities, because we also know that each type of institution can have a share of up to 30-40 percent of those who start their studies but do not finish them. We would be happy if everyone who starts high school, starts university, starts vocational school, finishes vocational school, from then on the number of graduates, graduates in Hungary would increase by 15-20-30 or 40 percent. That is why we have put forward, both at strategic level and at legislative or new legislative level, the proposals that Parliament has adopted over the past period. Let me give you one more piece of data: today, in the mid-level graduation of Hungarian language and literature, the exams took 1074 locations, while on an elevated level 1904 exams took 50 locations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-04-166	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister herself for an answer.
u2015-05-04-167	I'll take it.
u2015-05-04-168	Yes, Congresswoman accepts the response. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Self-care and job creation - this is the slogan of the public employment model programme launched in Peace in March on which I would like to ask you and the Minister. In this initiative, it is planned that public workers will breed pigs and grow plants in farmland farming. We also know from the publication that for two years the program will operate from state resources in public works, and they expect it to become self-sustaining from March 2017. You must see, Mr. Secretary, that you are making arrangements to spend HUF 1 billion, and this programme is linked to György Simonka, the György Simonka, whose melon cartel cases many of us have heard a lot about in this country. I also visited him - I'm not sure you know that, Mr. Secretary - because many also complained about the local Dumpster. Dear Secretary of State, I have quite strong doubts that this programme will indeed be about providing a real and lasting livelihood for peaceful people. I miss the training and I miss the preparation of the program. We can see that Fidesz is imagining rural development through local Dobokiks, and this is what this country looks like, but now in this programme, public workers have to provide themselves with a stable suitable for fattening pigs, and I do not see that they can really rely on professional help. At present, even well-equipped, very efficient pig keepers are having problems with low take-over prices. Overall, I would like to learn from you how well the conditions are set for this sample programme to succeed and bring the expectations. The other thing I would like to highlight is that besides pig farming - what God gives - these public workers will grow melons. Let's say George Simonka is a big melon expert. In this regard, I do not understand exactly who will help public workers to sell and market products. Is it the municipalities? But how? There is no mention in the programme of exactly how the sales of products will take place. Remember the experience of the Zsuzsa Hegedűs program, if we simply give people animal and seed, it will be nothing. How do you try to make this program more successful?
u2015-05-04-170	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, in order to move the public works programme into a higher class, it is necessary for those involved in public works to take part in a production process that will help them to move forward, either as small farmers or as agricultural entrepreneurs, on their own feet in the foreseeable future. The main point of the public work programme is that those who cannot find jobs in the labour market, those who are unable to work on the labour market without qualifications or other skills, who are temporarily able to earn a living, earn income in the public work programme, and those who are able to prepare for their return to the permanent labour market with continuous employment and training. Public employment is not primarily carried out in the form of farm farming, but within the framework of local governments, local government associations and local government companies. Circulation programmes are currently in 1308 disadvantaged settlements. The aim is to produce agricultural products that can be used either in social programmes or in local institutions or to sell surplus. Indeed, a public employment programme is being launched in Békés County with the aim of launching a new, economically sustainable form of farming that also allows public workers to move on. Local governments participate in the programme, undertake to set up social cooperatives, and public employees undertake to become members of these social cooperatives, so we hope that these social cooperatives will be able to operate as an independent economic factor from 2016 onwards. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-04-172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Mr President, I understand that it was two of us, because I was also interested in this matter.]] Congressman, it wasn't recorded in my script, but, of course, it's yours. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. I am not going to talk like a fellow Member, so I am going to ask you more slowly how this is going to make a living. What happens after 2017? Because they say you create jobs and don't give aid, but these people get pigs and melons to eat. What's this if it's not a benefit? How does that make a living? What are they gonna do? You have to pay it back in an application system if you can't do it. After 17 if they can't maintain their stock, what happens? Do they have to give the pig back? Or is the watermelon then taken from them? Or how is this going to ensure that it's on the labour market? What about competitors who do not receive public workers' wages and do not receive anything but have to produce under normal market conditions and may have to move their pigs from the same place? What about them? How does this work? We would have expected an answer, because we do not see the assurance that this will indeed be a primary return to the labour market, and these people will increase the camp of Hungarian farmers as individual entrepreneurs and farmers. As long as there's money and a gift pig, there'll be work, and then there won't be any. That's the problem. And one billion forints can be used more usefully in the labour market, in our view. That's what we would have expected from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-04-174	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás State Secretary is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As I have said, the Public Works Programme is a temporary opportunity for people who cannot find a place in the primary labour market. The fact that leading these people back to the work world at the same time is either not possible or very difficult. The programme that is now being launched with the help of the municipalities - otherwise training in the first part of the question was already possible through the TÁMOP programmes in advance - thus social cooperatives with the help of the municipalities create the chance for these social cooperatives to be viable economic operators able to survive on their own. The extent to which this succeeds obviously depends essentially on the ability of social cooperative authorities to help this social cooperative function and, of course, on the diligence and capacity of public workers who are members of the social cooperative. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-04-176	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mengyi Roland, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. The unemployment rate in Hungary remains below the EU average. What does the government do to achieve full employment? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-05-04-177	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-05-04-178	Congressman said yes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.30]]
u2015-05-04-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Work is one of the most important depositaries of the dignity of human life. Where there's work, there's everything. Nowadays, we talk a lot about poverty and how to help, while not forgetting that the most effective antidote to poverty is work and the resulting earnings. So we are not talking in the air when we aim to build a work-based society. It is encouraging that the employment rate increased by 6.8 percentage points between 2010 and 2014 and by 3.7 percentage points only in 2014 to 66,7 percentage points. During the same period, only a 0.6 percentage point improvement was achieved on the average of the European Union. The reduction of labour taxes, the job protection action plan, the government's targeted employment programmes and the turnaround of growth in 2013 have a major role to play in the growth of the number of employees. So it is clear that our efforts for a work-based society are not in vain. But we can't stop here. We need to take advantage of the opportunity for Hungary to have more development resources in the EU development cycle between 2014 and 2020, of which 60% can be spent directly on economic development, i.e. job creation, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and industrial development. The aim is to reduce the unemployment rate from the current 7 percent to 3 percent. Dear Secretary of State, Of the 28 EU Member States, Hungary has reduced unemployment to the greatest extent in the last year. On the basis of the latest report by the European Commission, unemployment in Hungary may decrease from 7 percent to 6 percent in the next year and a half. In view of the above, I ask what the government is doing to achieve full employment. Thank you for your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said in your speech, Hungarian employment figures are particularly good. When we look at growth, it is a very interesting comparison that while the number of people employed in the European Union did not increase between 2010 and 2014, in contrast, there was an increase of around 12% in Hungary at the same time and until the first quarter of 2015. It is very important to stress that around 440 000 jobs have increased and 255 thousand of them have taken place in the domestic competition sector. And it is true that the number of unemployed people has also fallen significantly, by some 150,000, and the unemployment rate above 11 percent at the time of the change of government has now fallen to 7 percent, to exactly 7.4 percent, which is a better indicator than that of the Swedes, Belgians, Finns or even the French. And of course, this good result is due to the country's performance, basically the performance of the Hungarian economy. Obviously, the government's motivational role is also involved. I think that the Hungarian employment model works, and its success is essentially due to two factors. One is the introduction of employment-enhancing measures that affect both sides of the labour market, i.e. both labour demand and labour supply. On the other hand, employment policy and the package of government measures focused on targeted support for the most disadvantaged sectors in the labour market. This is why, in principle, this is a good result, recognised at European level. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-183	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, As you said, unemployment was around 12 percent in 2010, it is now around 7 percent, so it is effective and important that work is still not taxed and the key to personal income tax will be further reduced. This could allow us to build a country in which all people can make a living from their work and pay, and the measures and employment policy principles you have said point in this direction will greatly help everyone to make a living. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-184	Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-05-04-185	Thank you very much. In return, I would like to say a few more government measures, which helped to reduce unemployment to 7.4 percent in Hungary over the last nearly five years. Thus, at the time of the crisis, the introduction of an action plan for the protection of jobs, which still works today, since in February 2015 employers used a discount on around 800 000 employees... - or for young people the first job programme, student work programme or housing support to mention only the best known ones. Or even before Parliament, there is a bill that reduces the contribution of workers in the agricultural sector. This is a 6 billion-dollar package that will affect some 30,000 people. Of course, the government will continue to think about how it can indirectly promote employment expansion, because it is in the interests of all of us, the whole country. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-04-186	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the timeframe for immediate questions has been exceeded by five minutes. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, an independent Member, has applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-04-187	Mr President, Dear House, Life has led to the fact that the work of workers is on the agenda and on the subject. From the previous words, from the previous sentences, it is clear exactly how much the government deals with property management rather than facing the specific facts; that when workers you are talking about promise or say a 1% reduction in income tax, it is at least as ridiculous and proves that you are not doing anything outside of the sentences. They talk about it a lot, and they don't do much. Therefore, the necessary measures to improve the situation of workers are being initiated by the representatives of the Democratic Coalition, which, of course, goes hand in hand with the fact that the restoration of democracy and the rule of law and the creation of a new republic will be accompanied by the need to overcome the present situation and create a better situation for workers. In essence, there are three important areas that I think people expect, workers expect, and you should be prepared for. I suggest you do this by saying that if you have the courage to do it, then do it now and do not have to wait until the next government. But look at these three areas, these three options. The first claim concerns the fact that, in order to protect workers, it is not possible to employ a worker for less wages than the minimum amount of living shown by the HCSO in the previous year. Mr. Secretary of State has already made an outburst on this subject this morning, but the point is in this sentence. What can be done is that people are employed for less than they can create conditions for their daily lives, including consumption, clothing, housing, and earn less. This is what workers call poverty when they work eight hours, and as a result of your blessed activity or economic policy, they cannot even receive this minimum living condition, and in the meantime you claim that Sweden and Finland are the standards that you have been able to overcome. It is unacceptable that millions work less for this. That is why we are initiating an amendment to this, i.e. the minimum wage should gradually reach the minimum wage. And that is also the case if we know that businesses must be given benefits within the tax system, and the necessary steps to do so, how can I advise you if you need them. [[14.40]] And the second part is that workers have the right to pay the wages specified in their employment contracts, so that they can't pass as contractors for your contractors, that they have done the work, that they deserve the pay, but they don't get the money, because the businesses have spent it on something else. Yes, we have to face the responsibility of paying the wages for the work that we have worked for, and the necessary rules must be made for you to do so. The third item is the need to provide the services necessary for the condition of existence in terms of water and electricity, which ensure minimum conditions for each family. This could not be achieved by your lack of responsibility, and therefore justice must be done on this subject and the conditions for families to do so must be guaranteed. It should be the minimum conditions for water supply so that the family can cook and drink, and not shut down, as you did in Ozdon. And besides this water, it is also necessary to supply electricity so that the family can also cook. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, take the liberty of doing so in your next year's budget. We'll take the initiative. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-04-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik Group also applied for a post- Agenda address in Debrecen with the title of 100 million screenshots without those responsible. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-05-04-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Debrecen's cultural life has had interesting chapters in the past over a decade and a half, since Fidesz politicians have been running the city, it's enough to talk about the Latinovits Theatre. Everyone in Debrecen knows, and it was national news that they promised to do so by 2008, they built a concrete monstrum in the vicinity of Debrecen's largest mall, building it together, and in 2010, Lajos Kósa promised that in 2012 there would be performances at the Latinovits Theatre. Instead, the building continues to be empty, spending more than four billion forints of the Debrecen taxpayers' money on it, and spending six million forints a year on guarding and heating it every year. In addition to the shame of being mocked by the name of Zoltán Latinovits, the Acting King, taxpayers' money was thrown out the window; for now it seems that there is no change in this matter in 2015. But I don't want to talk about that. I want to talk about the latest cultural scandal. This exploded when the Modern and Contemporary Art Center of Modem, Debrecen, was incorporated into the Déri Museum by the municipality of Debrecen about a year ago. From the Warehouse of Modem, the brilliant painter, Kosztka Csontváry, and József Nemes Lampérth's painting, Tivadar Night Scene with Chapels and Forms, disappeared without trace between autumn 2013 and spring 2014; this six-month period is when they are unaware of the fate of the painting. The photos were part of the Antal-Lustig collection, which included 400-500 works, which were handed over to the municipality of Debrecen free of charge nine years ago by the owner. The report was followed by an investigation, and then on April 20, this year the police closed the investigation in the absence of a crime. At the time of the disappearance of the images, a year ago, Fidesz's local group leader assured the public that the city might have to pay for the stolen photos, and I quote, he said that in relation to the collection managed by the Modem, the insurance relationship was established between the municipality and the insurance company, so the contract on the name of the municipality also includes the provision of pictures provided by the owner. These 15 days are just passing, and the city's leadership has been silent ever since, even though Jobbik called on Fidesz politicians to give their opinion on the matter, to name the people responsible. There have been questions about this ever since, and the citizens of Debrecen are interested in the following things. They would like to know and we would like to know how this absurd situation, this absurd case, and who is responsible for it. In addition to the police investigation, was there an internal investigation into the case? If so, with what result? If it comes to it, from what source do the Fidesz city leaders intend to pay for the damage? If they are even willing to compensate the owner so that the other works can remain in the institution and the owner does not take them. In any case, it is an interesting sideline that Modem - as the city owns many properties - is Pannon Guard Zrt. is guarded by a company that has many ties to Fidesz. It would be time for the Fidesz politicians and city leaders in Debrecen to take account of the company, investigate the case, and if it really wasn't appropriate to guard the photos, and for that, the guardian protection company is responsible, then the Pannon Guard should pay for the damage. If this does not happen, it is expected that the city will terminate its contracts with the Guardian Protection Company. This outrageous scandal has not yet had enough echoes, which is why I felt it necessary to talk about it here at the plenary session of Parliament. It is also interesting and it may interest people to know how the government feels about this, let's say, the cultural government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "Depression of hair." I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-04-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have already talked about the difficulties and problems of those working in disarray care and of the profession, and I would like to continue with what was left out of the previous one. However, I would say that, as in the social field, the workers in this sector are having problems that, even if I said it for a cycle after the agenda for all days, I would not think I would come to the end. But let's start with the most important problems. There is also a problem with the guidelines themselves. By the way, the guidelines are best seen in the funding and tender system and in the tenders issued, and the professionals and participants in the profession are not satisfied with the directions they experience there. In the same way as in other areas of the social care system or even in other sectors, one of the most important things is that benefits are built on one another, and if benefits are built on one another, then we can break off with the 25-year tradition that the social care system is terminal in Hungary, and there is no exit from it: once there is one - and this is particularly true of the homelessness system - then it must be vulnerable to this care for a very long time or even forever, or its client. This can be changed, as I have already said, with services that build on each other. There are local government institutions - I might mention the homeless establishment in Győr - where there is a build-up, only because there is no funding or adequate tenders or at least no suitable tenders for it, in fact because of the lack of effective exit and the introduction of so-called semi-way homes, the process ends, and after the temporary home or rehabilitation facility of the homeless, the recipient no longer has the opportunity to remain in the field of sight of care, workers, mental health or any assistance professionals, with the help of them in everyday life, open labour market, or even in their own apartment. In this institution, too, the only way they can solve it is that enthusiastic social workers - although they have a scandalous pay situation and social respect - are lining up after working hours with former clients, former clients who are now out of the framework of the institution, out of sight, but they want to continue to follow what will happen to these beneficiaries, what will happen to them, how well they are doing, and, if appropriate, whether they provide advice or otherwise. [[14.50]] So I think we need to go this way. This is what they complain about in many cases, whether it is a church or a civilian maintainer, that this complex system is not there. Without this complex system, you can't go from one to the other. The other very, very big problem is the lack of numbers. The lack of numbers is palpable. Anyone who has ever been to a homeless facility or even an institution complex knows very well that many times the work that has to be done with this small number of people is almost unacceptable, and many times ladies do their services alone at night in a night shelter. Or we could talk about the fact that there is a home for the homeless, which is, in fact, a nursing home for homeless people. If you take into account the fact that they cannot really work with the numbers laid down by Regulation No 1/2000 in nursing homes, they cannot really work, they can only serve their guests, now that the number of frames in homeless homes is even smaller, even less normative, they have to work with even less numbers. However, when you think about a homeless career after a homeless life - a homeless career - quoted as a quote - when someone goes to such an institution, as I have said, to the nursing home of the homeless, it is conceivable what kind of care needs he needs, whether he needs health care or mental care, and the number of people working there has to solve this with less numbers than their colleagues working in a certain way in better conditions, working in nursing homes, for the same no pay, I have to remember this once again. Otherwise, they're levitating that there will be a concept, we can finally see numbers, how much the wages of those working in the social sphere will rise; I hope it will be properly. Of course, I'm not too hopeful, because unfortunately, the profession has been tricked a lot by the government. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Bernadett Szél, LMP Group also applied for a post-meeting address: That's one way to argue about it. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-04-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my opinion, it doesn't matter what speeches are made in the Hungarian Parliament, nor does it matter what tools are used in a debate by those who speak. In my view, we are living in a time of distress, one of which is exactly what is happening in this House. It can and must be different. We have brought fresh air to the Hungarian Parliament in the framework of an art project before, and I will do it again and again. Please respect the words of politicians whom the whole nation or even all mankind can be proud of. First, the words of the Social Democratic Anna Kéthly from 1924: Dear National Assembly! The wage policy that employers have put in place here with the consent of the government and even with the support of the government - in its real name only a lease dictatorship - has achieved the result that workers, tied to their hands and feet, have served up an economic and financial policy that means that they have been thrown for the spoils of all experitors. At all times, these expeditions were aimed at getting the country's resolution costs out of there, covering the pockets of those whose pockets would be the least difficult. And because it is the easiest thing to reach into the pockets of the weakest, and these workers, they have reached into their pockets. On the one hand, because the workers could not protest against this, and on the other hand, because the power of the ruling class parties, which came out of the more demanding layers, was always greater than ours, and so the burdens could always be shifted from their shoulders to the shoulders of those who were weaker than they were. As long as there is no improvement in working conditions, until the workers' resilience and consumer capacity are increased, until they create enough workplaces, the existing working opportunities, based on existing living conditions, are added to the necks of the disillusioned, crushed people, and cannot be sewed around their necks, because they will not be able to bear it. It's gonna fall apart under the new load. I think that no one wants to do this, no one wants to do it, the end result will be a terrible situation, that this ravaged layer will crumble to the ground under the new burden, and take with it those who are more demanding, who are above it, who will drag the whole country with them. All I can say now is that voting in favour of this proposal is a matter of trust that we cannot advance to this government system after what has happened so far. This resolution is an important operation, as the Minister of Finance said. But it's an operation performed by the same doctors who left the tweezers in the patient's stomach once. Getting the same doctors to perform the operation is a very risky thing, and I don't know if there's a patient who would dare to experiment with the same doctors again. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Anna Köhly's words were heard; 91 years ago they were spoken, and I think that summoning this in today's distressing times is more than current. You, my esteemed pro-government colleagues, are already ambitious of the 2016 budget. Anna Kehly's words are also a guide to you. I would also recommend these words to our fellow Members, also to those members of the government who tend to forget the quality and the work culture that is desirable in our profession in this House. Thank you. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-05-04-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group, also asked to speak after the agenda, with a title on taking the necessary steps in language learning. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-04-195	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I trust that my speech will draw your attention, and perhaps you will also praise me for an answer, just because it is a very serious matter, namely the problem of language learning, which we are not bringing to this House for the first time, even because we do not see any progress in this important matter. Last time we discussed this important issue in the Commission's debate on the Higher Education Strategy, the higher education strategy puts it as a condition for entering higher education by 2020. We can agree with this, and we also consider it important that there should be such a requirement, but at the same time we find it very inappropriate to set a serious criterion first, a serious condition to which a very large number of students are at the moment, and it is feared that in 2020 no matter how far this date may seem, but it will not be able to meet it, so this criterion is very serious and that, in order to meet this condition, the current young people will not take any action. So we consider the order to be very wrong, and we would consider it more important to have language education first, which needs to be reformed, and then to set a criterion. At the committee meeting, which I mentioned earlier, when we took this, you, the present secretary of state, instead of responding substantially to what kind of steps they were going to take in the field of language learning, all stressed that 53 percent of the candidates already have an appropriate language examination, so they are confident that by 2020, by now you will indicate the importance of the language examination, everyone will have this, and they have not said a word about how I would like to reform language learning. Allow me to quote a survey that was carried out a few years ago, and in comparison with several countries, it analysed the number of hours in which a student will pay attention to language learning, and the surprising result of this study is that in Hungary students will take part in at least 984 language lessons during the nine-year study, and in practice they will spend much more time on learning. Only two Member States spend more hours on language learning, Denmark and Sweden. And here is the point: however, there has been no significant progress in the field of language skills in Hungary, because, based on a 2013 survey, we are at the last European level in terms of language skills, because two thirds of the population do not speak any foreign languages except their mother tongue, says the quoted survey. The situation is therefore very serious and points out that although we have sufficient language education in sufficient hours, we cannot get to the same level as other countries. That is why it is important to reform the whole course of language education, and I would like to urge the Secretary of State and the Government to do so with this speech. In addition, I would like to raise some minor but significant points, which could also promote the language skills of young people. In the context of language reform, we would consider it very important to spread small group, speech-centric language education; small group, where it is much better to deal with students individually, and it is speech-centric, which is important, because in our country language learning is often subject to charges that place great emphasis on grammar, which is important, of course, but still overweight, and that is at the expense of speech. [[15.00]] The other two small things: one would be based on a social factor, and Jobbik has repeatedly suggested this, and several years ago we started saying this proposal for the first time that for all young people the first secondary language exam should be state-supported, free of charge, all of this - let me mention it here on the basis of a personal example - would be important. I had one of my high school classmates, he, when he was at the highest level of language skills, could have done the midterm C-type exam, then he simply didn't have the money to pay nearly 30 thousand forints. Then he went to university, there was less emphasis on language learning, more and more less language skills, and since then he hasn't had a language exam, even though if this system had lived, he would have been able to take the language exam. And one more small thing is that we would consider subtitled films in the original language to be important; otherwise, your youth organization, the IKSZ, has now discovered this proposal, and they also propose it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have been proposing this for years, and I hope that they can make progress in this area as a joint proposal, so that we can also help young people to improve language learning. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, He applied for a post-meeting speech... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I'll follow you, Mr. Secretary. Bence Rétvári wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2015-05-04-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I was so inspired by Gergely Farkas that I thought I would not ignore his post- Agenda speech, not even because almost all of my fellow Members obviously agreed with what Gergely Farkas said. We all see that when, after the change of regime, Russian teachers suddenly became English teachers, it did not give them that knowledge, even if, as you said, Hungarian students learn foreign languages for nearly a thousand hours, but did not give them the language skills they had in other countries, in luckier countries, and it is a gradual, continuous task to improve the level of language skills. As you have said, Hungary spends a sufficient amount of time in the design of teaching materials and lessons, only their efficiency needs to be improved. It is also an important incentive that language graduation is one of the five mandatory exams. If your friend had passed a high-level exam at the time - he may not have had the chance to do so at the time - in the case of a performance above 60 per cent of the B2 language exam, then someone could have obtained his language exam free of charge by graduating at an elevated level, but, of course, there is also a medium level opportunity to pass the language exam. In order to make good use of this nearly a thousand hours, many innovations have been developed and introduced by the education government in recent years, quite a few of them have been mentioned. Using information and communication technology tools on a larger scale, using different computer programs, digital tablets, can make language learning more effective, which is also an important tool to motivate students. It was an important decision in November last year by the Digital Nation Development Programme, which helps disadvantaged and cumulative underprivileged students, and in this there is also a digital language module for everyone. With regard to the admissions, as the congressman said, that the order is wrong, the students were given a sufficient period of preparation here, since they have six years to prepare for the increased requirements in higher education, so I think that, in the meantime, if someone makes the decision, they will be able to obtain the language exam that the higher education strategy says they will need in six years. With regard to subtitle films, I would like to note that it was not only an idea of the Christian Democratic Alliance of Youth, but also some progress has been made on the proposal of the IKSZ over the past four years, but obviously we would like to have as many as possible and, if appropriate, as many films as possible, with subtitles in the original language, English. If you see TV channels abroad, whether you watch them abroad or otherwise, you can see that there are many more films that speak English and are subtitled in the language of that state, helping you learn languages or motivate young people. What is important even for motivation and is included in the new National Basic Training Plan, in other professional materials, is motivation and language instruction according to age-appropriate methods. In addition, the methodology of communicative language teaching is already a raw material in language teaching, i.e. to get students to talk as much as possible in lifelike situations. A very important part of the language learning environment in schools is that language competitions can also be organised, with acting groups, exchange programmes or summer camps to encourage young people to learn languages as effectively as possible. It is important to stress that we have clearly defined objectives on the required level of linguistic knowledge when completing secondary education. On the basis of a recent change, the National Basic Training Plan has adapted the minimum level of foreign language knowledge to the B1 level of the Common European Reference Framework for secondary education, and the amendment of the Government Decree on the issue of the examination rules for the final exam already includes raising the foreign language level to B1, so the aim is to learn at least B1 level before graduation. In addition to the instruments listed above, we strive to provide further assistance for all types of schools, all regions, along the principle of gradualness, because I think that is everyone's common goal. As many languages, as many people, say the Hungarian proverb. We would like everyone who is willing and motivated to do so to receive language training with these innovations, with these modernisations, which I have just listed so that everyone who wants to acquire it really has the necessary European language skills. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Nagy applauds.]]
u2015-05-04-198	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title Jászség. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. [[János Pócs puts his microphone on.]] Congressman, I'm taking technical time.
u2015-05-04-199	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Today is the day of Jasmine's celebration. He is celebrating, because the Hungarian Parliament marked as an important moment in Hungarian history, when on February 4, 2014, he declared the date of signing the degree in redemption, by unanimous decision, the historic day of Jász. Redemption is mandatory. On the 6th of May, most of the Jász settlements in our schools have a school holiday in the sense that there are lectures and festive programs in the schools. Jász, the Kuns carry it in their genes, unspoken and unspoken that our freedom and independence can never again have a price, because it has value. The Jászkunság was a crown estate and belonged to the Hungarian Holy Crown. During the Turkish occupation, the Jászs lived in a threefold grip: the Turks smeared it, the Hungarian king had to pay taxes, and Transylvania claimed our goods. During this period, there was a significant population change in the area of the Jászkun districts, many of them emigrated. After the liberation from the Turkish occupation, aliens moved to the territory, and Lipo I no longer considered the former Jaskun privileges to be valid, and in 1702 he pawned the Order of the German Knightship for 500 thousand gold forints in Rhine. On May 6, 1745, Maria Theresa signed a degree in redemption, and restored the eternal privileges of free jasians and kunas, i.e. the free choice of officials and clergymen, the right of pallos, the freedom from revs, customs, and landlord services. Dear Parliament, Many today still seek the answer to the loss of their native country and language in the history of a people, yet they preserve themselves. Many today, hearing the names of the jasers, think first of all about freedom, for it is well known that in 1745 there is a redemption of jasians who redeem themselves for money, which confirms that freedom will never come from money, but always from faith. [[15.10]] It is important that Article 21 is amended as follows: We should be able to take our destiny into our own hands in the century, and wisely shape it, because no one will redeem us for ourselves, we can trust ourselves and each other, because history always repeats itself. Our ancestors, our grandparents, our parents' legacy, that we never forget what they did for us, what they gave to the future. When we walk around the countryside and wonder what beautiful temples our ancestors built in the settlements by themselves, with two hands, it makes me wonder: would we do the same today? Our ancestors, Jászkun, 270 years ago, not only built churches with sacrifice, taken from themselves and their families, they collected a sum corresponding to Hungary's entire budget, not for themselves, but for their offspring, their future, for us. When Emperor Lipót sold the rights and freedom of the Jászsak to the Order of the German Knights, our ancestors had already declared that power was not the truth, but the truth had power, and that their own truth, freedom, rights and independence were bought back 270 years ago for HUF 575 900 in Rhine, which was then Hungary's budget. If we ask ourselves whether the Hungarians, the Jász, the Kuns can join forces today, then we say yes. Redemptio was in his own way in 89, when someone dared to tell the power that he was a Russian, home! When he was in Brussels, he stood up and said I would protect my country. Today we didn't have to crouch Rajna forints, but we crouched them and repaid the IMF loan and didn't hire a new one. At the time, politics divided the area into Lower and Upper Jászság, today the Jászság is united. Perhaps the Jászkun redemptio gave the example, the strength to protect the interests of the Hungarians sometimes, if necessary, with Moscow, Brussels, if necessary, against America. For 270 years, the redemption has told us that we can draw strength from the past. For those living there, Jászság is not only a birthplace, but also a fate; it is an example of belonging and we organize the Jász World Summit annually in different settlements. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Respect for the Jasmine! [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-04-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I've included the technical time frame with Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-201	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, Thank you for your speech for the opportunity to recite an important historical event of the Jászség and the Hungarians. As you have mentioned, redemptio, i.e. redemption, is the word in Hungarian history for the salvation of the Jászkun district. In 1745 certain settlements in the district regained their former privileges lost after the Turkish wars for money. King Lipót no longer considered the former Jaskun privileges to be valid, and in 1702 he pawned to the Order of the German Knights the Jászség, the Kiskunség and the Grand Kunség for 500 thousand gold forints in Rhine. Lipot's decree abolished the eternal privileges of the jasians and kunas, and virtually pushed them to the right line. Of course, the Jász and Kunok became enthusiastic supporters of the Rákóczi Freedom Fight, and they resisted the performance of the landlord's services in the case of both the Order of Knights and the Pesti Invalidus Order, which later acquired the pledge. In 1745 Maria Theresa finally agreed to the self-resolution, which had been on the agenda since the Satmar peace. Having successfully collected from the collection of the so-called reliefs, loans, the gold forint exchange fee of some 580 thousand Rhines, the queen signed the diploma on 6 May 1745, which restored the eternal privileges of the free jasses and Kunos, which were also listed by the representative. The Jász, the Kuns in the process of redemption, allowed several wealthy, not originally Jász and Kun citizens to participate in the Redemption. It may not be unnecessary to mention by name the Jászségi settlements in the Redemption: Jászberény, Jászárokszállás, Jászpáti, Jászszerszentgyörgy, Jászladány, Jászfényszaru, Jászjakóhalma, Jászkisér, Jászdózsa, Jásztelek, Jászfőszentgyögy. The new administrative unit created after the Redemption became the seat of Jászberény, which included Jászség, Nagykunség and Kiskunség, until the administrative reforms of 1876. The redemption changed the previously equal distribution rate of municipal land, because it was distributed among the reliefs in proportion to the size of the amount they had redeemed. The Redemptians received all the livestock from the community, while the irredemptions were only from the farmland around the house. Redemptions and redemptions played a significant role in maintaining the unique jas and kun sense of origin and tradition. For a long time, the conditions established after redemption have defined the property, occupational, social and economic structure of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jászkun community set an example for the successors with its inexhaustible desire for freedom and its ability to join forces with each other and with Hungarians for the common cause. This is why a degree in redemption can be an outstanding and uplifting moment in our hundreds of years of history with Jászség. According to the Member, the memory of such events is particularly important in Europe, in which there is a growing lack of faith in the fateful, organically formed family and national communities. You are absolutely right, the Jász and Kun and our Hungarian elites did not fight for such freedom; they did not fight for a freedom that crushes nation consciousness, traditions and morals, human dignity. They fought for freedom, not freedom. We are convinced that we must stand up for the ideals represented by the Redemptians, because this can be the key to our survival and development. Our country and the government have, in fact, recently had to and must fight to preserve the sovereignty of the country, either the agricultural sector, or the ownership of the land that forms the country's physical basis and territory, or other areas of governance. In these, we can only succeed if we are all united on the basis of good historical examples. On the occasion of the Memorial Day, on behalf of the government, I welcome the Jászság, thank you for your example, from which we can always gain strength in our continuing struggles. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-04-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, Member of the MSZP Group, with the title of Don Bosco's anniversary, also applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-04-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Then, 200 years ago, August 16, 1815, Bosco St. John was born in a poor family. She was only two years old when her father died, so her mother raised her three children alone. He had to work as a shepherd when he was young. At first he was taught by the local priest, and later he earned the money for tuition under miserable circumstances. He studied theology between 1835 and 41, and was then dedicated to priestship. To animate the oratorium, Don Bosco founded the Society of Fun with the intention of organizing games, having conversations, reading books that please everyone. They had three main rules: to avoid any speech or act that is inappropriate for a good Christian, to fulfill school and religious duties, to be cheerful. In February 1842 he studied with 20 boys in March 46. The classes were initially held under the open air, walking around Turin, and when Bosco was appointed chaplain of the shelter of girls threatened by prostitution in the autumn of 1844, his superior provided two halls for his purposes. Later, these halls were converted into chapels. The continuation of his work was repeatedly hampered, and his endurance, which he struggled with, was considered sick. The halls were taken from him, so Bosco rented apartments and continued to raise boys there. His mother joined him and worked in the first salesian children's home for the last ten years of her life. After that, the urban authorities recognised the importance of Don Bosco's initiative. He wrote at the beginning of one of his works: "There are two significant things that the devil deceives young people to draw them away from virtues. The first is to allow them to believe that the one who is in the service of the Lord has a sad life, and far from having all the fun and joy. That's not true, they're lovely young people. [[15.20]] I want to teach you a method of Christian life that carries both cheerful and happy, real pleasure and real joy. This is precisely the purpose of this booklet, he writes: to serve the Lord and always to be cheerful.. * Don Bosco was also a musician and author of religious songs, especially during the first years of his services. He could play the violin and learn organ. He really believed in the educational value of music. "A house in Salesian without music is like a body without a soul," he says. In this sense, salesia in my constituency are worthy heirs of Don Bosco's legendary saying, since the III. District salesian houses, if you like, are always loud with music, happiness, fun. Its versatility is typical of satisfying the poorest's desire for knowledge, even writing a comedy about the metric system, so that those who have not yet used it in practice can understand the new system of standards. It is also typical that in 1884, his printing workshop at the world exhibition in Turin won a second prize in efficiency; and it is also typical that he did not feel that it was a success because he hoped for a first prize. CHAPTER IX Pope Pius supported and controlled Don Bosco in the establishment of the Salesian order. He recommended that he name him a companion, keeping pace with the age; to make a vow, but not in solemn terms. He also suggested simple clothing, and effective but not too complicated practices in spirit. Under his papacy, he approved the Saléz Society and its organizations, the Institute of the Daughters of the Helping Virgin Mary and the Association of Saléz Colleagues, of which he himself was among the first members. Dear House, Almost 200 years ago, Saint John Bosco was born, and I think that all the salesian order, which in my constituency, is the III. The example of St. John Bosco in the district and in the district of Bosco can be seen before us in the fact that people in difficult social situations, children, must be taken up, and this embrace will be the one that will get them out of this situation. They should be given a supportive and non-rejective hand. Thank you for listening.
u2015-05-04-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In addition, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group: Destroy, South Somogy Village Tour I. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2015-05-04-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1929, Lajos Fülep, Reformed pastor of Zengővárkonyi published a series of three articles about the destruction of our people in the Pesti Napló. After a series of articles by Gyula Illyés Fülep, he looked across the South Transdanubia and was equally desperate about what he saw. In 1933 he wrote his sad-hearted sociology in the West, summarizing the experiences of Baranya county travel notes. Unfortunately, according to today's conditions, I couldn't give a better title to my speech after the agenda; I'm not interested inilly laurels, but I'd like to invite you on an imaginary journey to the villages of South Somogy. Three days, 11 villages inhabited by 3,200 souls, wrapped in nutshells, probably filled with subjective elements in many ways, bitter conversations, serious questions, serious lessons. The sunny spring time was the best thing you could imagine of looking around the settlements of Drávatamási, Drávagárdony and Kastélyosdombó on 21 April. Walking along the streets of the three villages of South Somogy, with only 800 inhabitants, I had a conversation with the locals. I deliberately didn't hold a public forum or host hour, where the politician graciously expects the inhabitants of the village to try to convince them of their truth as some teleshop marketing guru. Rather, I listened attentively to what people there thought, which are the main problems, what they would consider an effective solution. It was disappointing to see the vulnerability of public workers, not knowing what would happen to them in a few months' time, when their contract expired, how they would care for their families. There is no better word: total vulnerability, hopeless future, vegetation from day to day. It was sad to hear that a net HUF 100,000 job is a dream job here, but since it is not, many young people are fleeing to the West. And it was tragic to experience that some people think it's all over, that it's all in vain, because the destruction of the countryside can't be stopped. But it was inspiring that more and more people would trust Jobbik and rely on their common sense of peasants to see the state of the country clearly. More and more and more people are saying that there has been enough corruption, enough urinating. I could promise them one thing: we will continue to go to the village, I will continue, and Jobbik will not only pay attention to what people say during the election campaign. The next day, Tótújfalu, Szentborbás, Lakocsa, Potony took place, and I ran the streets of these four villages along Drava, originally Croatian. First, I went to the Totújfalu, which was inhabited by less than 200 people. It was crucial to see the ruins of the once flourishing dairy farm; perhaps even the Second World War did not do as much damage as the free robbery that had been caused since the change of regime in the countryside. In spite of the postapocalyptic conditions, young farmers reporting on their experiences, honest, infinitely benevolent, young local farmers would develop and give jobs to the locals, but the land application system that Jobbik criticized a thousand times, the ridiculously low amount offered by the purchasers, the meaningless bureaucracy makes their work a thousand times more difficult. They are not prototypes of kft.-döböbökik in the tens of millions of HUF luxuries, they work from morning to evening, and there is no weekend, no day off, no vacation, let alone in Dubai, the Cuban Varadero, and not even on the shore of Lake Balaton. They, if they can't afford gas oil, can break the corn on their feet at minus 20 degrees to feed the animals. They are the ones who are laughed at by those powerful non-workers who have not gone to five thousand forints a day years ago, but expect to support them, to have a daily dose of cigarettes and canned wine, because life is not round without it. They're the ones who don't have a hundred million-dollar family alliance, but they're even more true in cow-ganaj rubber boots and work clothes than many of the Louis Vuitton riders. They are the ones who still keep this country alive, and they want the policy to finally put South Transdanubia and its abandoned small regions, including South Somogy, the Barcs region and its villages, back on the map of our country. This is what I am asking my fellow Members to do to ensure that this part is not sucked in and retained by the Ormans. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-206	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr István Nagy wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-04-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for this suggestion, in which you report on the fate of the villages in Somogy, because we are discussing a very important issue. Last time we talked about the fate of people living in disadvantaged areas, and I tried anyway, and I waited for your answer so that I could assure you that the Hungarian government is listening to these areas, and that, compared to its possibilities, it will do everything in its power not to abandon our willing, well-intentioned fellow workers. It is impossible that if someone wants to work, if someone struggles for everyday life in a symbolic and very illustrious way, that they will be left alone by the government. They are the people who are struggling practically as hard as possible, with the greatest effort to get their own region, their own life, and therefore Hungary, as a whole, back on its feet. Many times and for most of the time, I tell you that the guarantee of Hungary's renewal is in these small rural settlements. If we don't know them, we're gonna have a 21st. Bringing them up to the level of the century, if various grants fail to provide them with livelihoods, safety and safe everyday life, then the country does not have XXI. Company. Hungary can be renewed through them, through them, and all the programmes that Hungary's government has, I very much hope that they will help. Among the strategic directions and actions to facilitate development, the development of accessible and sustainable Community transport, which is fully suited to the needs of daily work, commuting, the development of economic activities providing the economic basis for small villages, the promotion of local businesses, which also take into account social aspects in small villages, the promotion of the sustainable and sustainable functioning of the social economy has been given particular attention and must continue to be given in the future. [[15.30]] Job creation is one of the main objectives of the rural development programme in order to achieve the objectives set. In rural areas, preserving rural jobs, increasing their number and improving the conditions for employment, promoting small and medium-sized economies or sustainability is key to improving the quality of living of the population. The main measures associated with the objectives of the rural development programme are: to promote diversification of agricultural production, to support labour-intensive sectors, to increase the safety of production, to develop rural infrastructure and to use locally produced resources. According to the Prime Minister's Office, the rural development programme also supports the provision of basic services and infrastructure to rural areas under Article 20, with priority support for municipalities with a population of less than 1000 inhabitants. The government spends nearly HUF 70 billion on the measure during the 2014-2020 support period. It's obviously just a word until it's done. Obviously, if we went to a pub there and told you that, people wouldn't understand. People understand that a system of farming support and support can be established in which they will surely buy their livestock; can it be established that they can farm in their own territory; that there are certain buyers; that if they fatten the cattle, they can sell; that they can keep their crops and possessions safe. And I think if all these programs can be realized, then you can really feel that you're listening to him, you're concerned that the people who live there matter. I think that if we can make these settlements accessible, so that we can go to work from these settlements, then for young people, for better housing, which could mean cheaper housing and additional activities, these could provide a perspective for the future of these areas. Without young people remaining there, there is no chance for this future, and the fact is that everything must be done to ensure - and the Hungarian government will act to this end - that the young people will have a future, livelihood and security for these regions. Thank you for your speech. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-04-208	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, from the Jobbik Group, also asked to speak after the agenda:. New season, unchanged problems - the government is still not doing anything about the title Balaton. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It was almost a year ago that I spoke here, following a similar title, in Parliament about the problems of Lake Balaton. During this time, I have tried to draw attention in countless other forms - interpellation, dozens of written questions, press releases and press conferences - to the timely and many years-long problems that should be resolved with regard to Lake Balaton. In a year, I'm sorry, nothing happened in these cases. The government has not taken the necessary steps in either area. My interpellations and written questions received answers that I could not and could not accept. Decade gap - to talk about specifics - is the statutory design of free coastal promenades around the lake. On this subject, I submitted a written question to Minister János Lázár. In his reply, the Minister wrote that the expropriation plan developed in 2012 was rejected by the government. We remember that by expropriating nearly a hundred properties on the shore of Lake Balaton, it would have been possible to select free promenades, but this did not happen at the time. The Minister also pointed out in his reply that the government was developing a new method of regulation. Based on past events, we would like to express our concerns and fear that their interests will play a role against the interests of the local people, watching the past years of governance and the activities of the government in close economic circles. I would like to draw the attention of Minister Lazarus to the fact that a year has passed from their second government cycle; it is time to take concrete action on this matter. I would also like to draw your attention to Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, and to Mr Károly Kontra, who represents him here. With regard to illegal uploads around Lake Balaton and unauthorised entrances, I expected the Minister to answer my question as to when they will begin to be permanently eradicated. In this area, too, we can remember earlier promises, as we have read in the media for years in the spring months that now work will begin, but nothing has happened. And as the Minister wrote, he will not for a while, because despite the previous study, it has been declared obsolete, and it is planned that this year the Ministry of Interior plans to survey the entire shoreline of Lake Balaton. Once again, I can say that a number of surveys and plans have been made; it is time to act in the interest of Lake Balaton. I also expected the answer from Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, on when to start the mosquito slaughter and mosquito control at Lake Balaton, because this is an extremely important problem in the field of tourism, and it can ruin the season. As I have learned from the Minister's reply, this measure will be delayed for the time being, because a government decision on the conditions and the responsibility of the mosquito control tasks for this year has not yet been taken, even though, as we know from the President of the Balaton Alliance, the damage must be started. This week, I understand, at their own expense, the municipalities will also start this activity, to which the resources available to the municipalities from their own resources will last until about the beginning of June; by then, it would be very good for the government to decide and make the additional resources available. These are the current problems, or some of them, but so many questions arise. When will the government finally take concrete steps to develop tourism in Balaton? As known, this year, for example, the annual development source of the Balaton Development Council has decreased dramatically to a third or a quarter. When can the development and expansion of infrastructure begin? We, local residents, have been waiting for years for the repair of cycling roads, the development, expansion of the bicycle road network, the inclusion of background settlements in the cycling road network in the vicinity of Lake Balaton; we are looking forward to the investments and developments that provide a year-long secure livelihood for the people around Lake Balaton in addition to the development of tourism, as they should also be considered, especially those who live there 365 days of the year and want to work there. The question arises: is the government so pleased with the tourism in Balaton? Are you satisfied that the Balaton region produced the lowest growth of the tourist regions in Hungary in the previous year? Are you satisfied that the number of foreign guest nights at Lake Balaton has dropped dramatically? There may also be a question of why this is happening. Does the government care about the Balaton region? And the question arises, Mr Secretary of State, whether, as the individual parliamentary representative of the party on the shore of Balaton, it represents the interests of the locals, draws the government's attention to the problems I have just said and urges the government to resolve them. I would very much like to receive positive and positive responses to this, specifically supporting your actions so far, because the locals are running out of patience and want to see actions instead of promises. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, the Secretary of State wishes to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-04-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since you have approached me on several occasions about your post-up to today's agenda as a Member of Parliament, allow me to respond to this for the first time and recall your interpellation on 16 March of this year, or your statement when you accepted your response to your interpellation, when you said, I quote, it is true that you have not seen me since the date of the election of the Balaton Beach. Honourable Congressman, It's a big lie. I collected it: from 7 April 2006, so from the day following the election until 16 March, I participated in more than 144 official programs. For example, I was in Balatonfüred 35 times, 9 times in Fűzfő, 10 times in Almádi, 5 times in Alsóörs, and I do not want to say all because 45 settlements belong to my constituency. So what I'm asking you to do is, if you're serious about the important task of declaring the truth to a Member of Parliament, then first of all, to apologize for this ordas lie - not for me, but for the people in the constituency, the citizens of the Balaton Constituencies of Veszprém County, who you tried to deceive with your lie. [[15.40]] As regards other comments after the agenda, I would like to inform you that one of the priority water projects of the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme will be the comprehensive reconstruction of the Sió-lock and its works, which provide technical conditions for water level maintenance in Balaton, as well as the Sió-channel. In excess of HUF 10 billion, coastal rehabilitation is planned in connection with the programme, with the involvement of local authorities, as well as the opening and replacement of coastal promenades and facilities belonging to the higher water level. I would also like to inform you that the Central Transdanubian Water Directorate has detailed information on illegal water positions and unauthorized uploads. Currently 400 illegal water jobs have been identified, and over 300 illegal uploads have been identified. The cost of dismantling these facilities is hundreds of millions of HUF. In all cases, demolitions should be subject to an environmental impact assessment, obtaining an official authorisation requiring the involvement of the national park and the environmental authority. The government continues to keep in mind that our largest lake, our natural heritage, our national treasure, should not be a private reservation for foody waterfront landowners. This condition would not serve the creation and functioning of quality tourism, the preservation and improvement of natural values and environmental quality on which quality tourism is based. Zsolt Füleky, Deputy State Secretary for Architecture and Construction, has been appointed by the Government to work with the stakeholders to develop the spatial planning, planning and its modern, innovative, long-term successful and sustainable concept of Balaton's High Value Resort. In the framework of this work, waterfront rehabilitation planning, which regulates the issue of coastal promenades in detail, will also be renewed. In developing this concept, the government will work closely with the local authorities concerned to achieve a sustainable and forward-looking solution in the long term. Honourable Congressman, As regards the development of the number of guest nights in Balaton, allow me to say that it is in our common interest that these should grow this year. We hope that this year's season will be favourable; the conditions for the successful implementation of the season are given. As far as mosquito control and mosquito control are concerned, in 2014, the government entrusted the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection with its implementation and organisation. This has been successful. We would like to create conditions again this year so that this inconvenience caused by the appearance of mosquitoes does not interfere with the Balaton season, does not disturb the people living there and the guests. We are confident that we will soon be able to inform the Balaton Association of good news, both the local governments concerned, and the people who live on the Lake Balaton, in the Balaton Highlands, are preparing to spend their vacation there. Honourable Congressman, The 2014-20 EU development opportunities provide a significant opportunity for the Balaton coastal settlements, the Balaton, the most important holiday zone of Lake Balaton. I trust we can make use of these opportunities. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-04-212	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. What remains after the settlement? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-04-213	Mr President, Dear House, On 7 May, a large-scale demonstration will be carried out by civil society organisations that have flagd the issue of rescuing those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. It is no secret at all that among them, among the members protected by these civil society organisations, there are those involved who feel on their own skin how inadequate and false the accountability process which the government seems not to be willing to talk about in the form of a response, so it does not respect our post- Agenda question by giving a worthy answer. Let's start with those who are not affected by the so-called forinting process, and here we are talking about some mortgage lenders, people-borrowers, car-crediters. With respect to the 650 billion HUF loan portfolio, the so-called settlement will receive about ten billion, so a negligible small amount compared to what was unduly taken from financial institutions. But if we go closer and look at individual cases, I have here a very recent individual case that may be more talkative than anything else. In 2009, the person took 1 million 200 thousand, so it was not a significant amount of money that would make it necessary to lose the habitat and property, with a monthly payment of 23 thousand forints for six years. So about HUF 1 million would have been eligible for a reasonable repayment of HUF 800,000. However, the repayment was fluctuating, and then it stopped around 31,000 HUF, but it already paid back 2 million 600 thousand HUF before the so-called settlement took place. According to this account, the new payment would now be HUF 38,000. So, contrary to the apparent reduction, we see that the 31-forints have become the instalment, but the bank will only have to pay 36 602 forints per month after a fast bargaining process. So only a few thousand forints will increase the crowd that has been said in the media to decrease by 10, 20, 25 percent. On the other hand, reality shows something quite different. What happened? The government's package of measures would seem to release 10-20 percent of the debt, but it will allow the parties concerned to break the 70 percent exchange rate difference that exists between the first period of circulation at the rate of admission proposed by Jobbik in 2010 and the forinting at the market rate that the government did. So the thing is, this 70 percent exchange rate difference is killing people. In essence, their payments to date will be reduced to a loan of HUF 7-8 or HUF 10 million, which is a gift, since in many cases the capital of the current debt, the new forinted, cleared debt, is higher than the initial amount. It is no exaggeration to say that the government has credited the banks concerned with almost the total amount of payments made so far in the form of gifts. It can also be seen that the civilians organising the demonstration on 7 May have a very harsh number in another specific case. Here 13 million 800 thousand forints were collected, and the injured party calculated that if he continued the repayment now after the Fidesz-KDNP settlement until the end of the term, he would be reduced by 48 million forints after the 13 million 800 thousand forints were added. Obviously, it is not only a matter of will whether it is done or not by the victim concerned. The ability to repay 48 for a loan of less than HUF 14 million is lacking. There are no market economy conditions, no legal, moral, ethical arguments that make this justified. In fact, the 350 percent profit is far too high for the loan shark category. When the letter appears in the bank's confession that the amount charged in the wrong way:, and a number appears after that, it encodes the admission of the fraud of the century. After that, our expectations can be clear: the government will break the pact with the Banking Association with a view to the alleged extension of future lending. We ask and demand that you break this pact because it cannot remain in the system that hundreds of billions of Hungarian people are lost by a financial network that has nothing to do with such operation in Hungary, and once the government has withdrawn the so-called settlement package, it would be entirely justified to settle the situation without which the current Hungarian government is unworthy of the role with which its voters have awarded it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-04-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech: now it is up to the Government to save him from the closure of the Neptun Elementary School. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Annex XV is amended as follows: Only Minister of Human Resources Zoltán Balog can save the Neptun Elementary School from the closure of the district. Annex XV is amended as follows: The district council decided to terminate the school in scandalous circumstances last week. The Fidesz-led municipality does not want to run the institution anymore, they want to get rid of it. The Neptune Elementary School is an excellent educational institution. Circumstantial school, the district's popular school. It is no exaggeration to say that everyone likes to come here because of the second home of students and teachers, the family atmosphere. In addition, the institution provides outstanding performance. They teach English and German at an elevated level, have achieved serious results and win competitions. [[15.50]] This year they also received the eco-school qualification. 286 students are studying here, of which 65 have special educational needs, who do not receive the quality education and education that they do here. It is a great help for parents to solve their children's education at such a high level. However, parents, students and educators received shocking news in mid-April that they wanted to close the institution. Finally, 12 municipal representatives supported the termination of the Neptune Elementary School last week. Fidesz doesn't have a majority in the district, but he always finds his partner for some cases. Since the establishment of the body of representatives in the district, the May Other Politics has been considered as a genuine opposition party. In addition to the Fidesz residents, the school closure was supported by left-wing representatives, thus receiving the majority. None of the members of the group called the district DK-liberals-Cooperation-PM-RATE opposed the decision, the two voted in favour, and the others boldly abstained during the vote. The representatives who supported the closure of the school did not even dare to take the roll-call vote. The Fidesz municipal administration refers to the low utilisation of the school, while not taking into account the professional proposals relating to, inter alia, the improvement of utilisation. The LMP also proposed an alternative solution, a LMP representative from the District of László Szilségi proposed the setting up of a five-member committee to negotiate with the parties for the maintenance of the school. It is unclear exactly why they want to terminate this institution. You can only guess that they want students and educators out of school because they've got eyes on this school building. It's a big question of who the government wants to do business with, what's the real reason why hundreds of students and educators don't charge. Just as it is not clear to this day who actually initiated the termination of the school. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary of the EMMI, replied to my question here in Parliament two weeks ago that the municipality initiated this. According to the Fidesz deputy mayor of the district, the termination of the school was not the idea of the municipality, but the KLIK wanted this restructuring. Well, then who's right? Is the Fidesz Vice Mayor or Secretary of State Bence Rétvári telling the truth? Who do we believe? Either way, Neptune Elementary must be saved. You mustn't close the institution. The LMP continues to work for its survival. Because of this scandalous school closure, we turn to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which violates the freedom to learn and teach, as well as legal certainty. In the rule of law, it is unthinkable that anyone and, under any circumstances, in April will take a decision to terminate an educational institution for the next academic year, putting students, teachers, parents, children preparing for that school and their parents in an undeserving position. The government's Fidesz leadership was helped out again by the left, so they already decided on the closure. However, the final decision shall be taken by the Minister. In this situation, LMP once again asks Minister Zoltán Balog to prevent the closure of Neptune, not to allow the termination of this school. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-04-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, MSZP Group has also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title 'Help those in the worst situation'. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There has been talk in Parliament many times, including today about the situation of foreign exchange lenders. In fact, millions of people in these days receive the settlement, post more than 2 million letters in part, and in these days the post office for them. You have high hopes for this settlement, you have said that the repayment of debtors will be drastically reduced, and you will do a kind of justice with this step. However, a lot of Miskolcs have also written to me - since I was approached as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc - families who were very disappointed when they received the accounts. We could now be in politics in terms of going back to 10 and looking at the exchange rates at that time, since the exchange rates were significantly more favourable, there was about 185 forints of Swiss francs at the change of government, and this partly deteriorated because of your policy, but I think it is worth thinking about the solution, because it is not possible for tens of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of people to be put in an impossible position in this country. First, let's look at what's happened in the last few years. First of all, the final repayment was here, which in fact provided a discount option at HUF 180 to settle their debt primarily to the more solvent debtors. Obviously, it would have been very difficult for those in the most difficult queue or those in the largest debt to pay off their loans in this way, obviously the most deprived could not have been helped in this way. Here was the exchange barrier, which did not solve the problem, but delayed it, although it could be a temporary relief. And there was this account, which no longer used the discount rate of HUF 180, but it was about HUF 256. Thus, in relation to both the exchange rate at the time of the change of government and the preferential rate, the debtors who were subject to the settlement were in a significantly worse situation. It has often been referred to as waiting for the Curia's decision on how the Curia takes its position on contracts. Obviously, this decision was clear on the exchange rate gap and unilateral contractual amendments, which were considered null and void by this decision. Your understanding that there is any gift here for the credentials is obviously wrong, and the credentials will get back what funds have been wrongly taken from them. And in fact, the situation arises when you consider this social policy issue to be closed, which is an amazing number of people in this country. And those decisions are not taken in my opinion at this time of year, which is important to those in the most difficult ranks. The government and KDNP have talked about the private failure institution many times - there are very good international examples - but nothing has happened to this day. This would mean ease and solution for many, many Hungarian families. There are examples, for example, of the right to walk free in countless Western European countries and in long-standing democracies, which is actually about the fact that, in the case of mortgage loans secured by real estate, the debtor is exempt from additional payments if he waives collateral. This logic is therefore simple: the bank has granted a loan together with a particular collateral, so it found it sufficient, where appropriate, to cover the real estate and obviously took a risk of reimbursing the loan. But the collateral is clearly the property, and there are a lot of countries where, in fact, debtors can start a new life after they resign from the property cover. If the state were to move in this direction, this would be an opportunity that would be an important move for many families. This could also be a real task for the asset manager, and in the future a housing stock could be created that could provide the basis for a real rental program. In any case, it is quite clear that the situation cannot remain that way, we need answers and solutions, and we need real solutions, not half-solutions. I therefore call on the Government to immediately initiate discussions, negotiations with the relevant credible, banks, representatives of the Banking Alliance, and to come up with a solution that really solves this problem, because it is in everyone's interest, both of the people, of the banks and of the Hungarian state. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-04-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novák, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of the MDF-SZDSZ Pact, which continues under the Fidesz government. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-05-04-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the signing of the MDF-SZDSZ pact derailing the change of regime, Jobbik considers it necessary to draw attention to the fact that the unconventional compromise after the election victory, the lack of taking the necessary steps are not only characteristic of the former MDF, but also of Fidesz. CHAPTER XX Gergely Pongrátz, legendary commander of Corvin köz, launched Jobbik in the 21st century. In the century. [[16.00]] Over the last 25 years, the joint responsibility of the MDF, MSZP and Fidesz governments is that the past of state security has not taken place, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and expulsion of party state leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions, which Jobbik takes immediately after entering the government, ending the living consequences of the MDF-SZDSZ pact to date. As the most serious consequences of the spirit of the Pact, Hungary's assets were sacrificed on the altar of an unlimited market economy. Privatization opened the way for the country's unscrupulous sale, and there was no promised spring cleaning in the areas of politics, economic life and the media. Although the anti-Hungarian SZDSZ, serving foreign interests, was able to make their candidate the head of state of Hungary in 1990, and, as the language of the balance sheet, he maintained his influence until 2010, although he was apparently already in opposition, but could not carry out his antisocial attack on a single-key tax in 20 years. That required the two-thirds government of his former sibling party, Fidesz, and Viktor Orbán's tax policy caper. In parentheses, I note as evidence that the current head of government is still in opposition, in February 2010 on TV2 the question of whether Fidesz is considering a single-key tax system for the government, he replied, and I quote, if the tax system does not take into account how many people live from the amount requested, how many people are kept, it will never be fair. It follows that it cannot be a key. So Viktor Orbán said in the months before the 2010 parliamentary elections. The title of the MTI news about the TV interview, which is still preserved on Fidesz's website, is: å A multi-key tax system is needed. So much for the SZDSZ legacy that Fidesz performed. Jobbik also feels the need to draw attention to the sins of the derailers of the change of regime because XX. Sometimes the parties of the century want to erect a statue for them. Among the pro-government signatories of the MDF-SZDSZ-pactum who survived under the Fidesz governments, István Balsai and László Solomon are currently constitutional judges of the Fidesz, while Katalin Kónyáné Kutrucz appointed László Kövér as Deputy Director General of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, and only Jobbik protested against this. People like us want names, so I'll keep going. József Antall, Péter Boross, Imre Kónya, András Gálszécsy and Tibor Füzessy are responsible for the transition of the past of state security without accountability. Jobbik would like to point out that the committee of the one-party National Remembrance is still serving only for further delay, while Parliamentary Secretary Péter Medgyessy D209 and former colleague of János Martonyi, former under the cover of the Târgu Mureş, another III/II agent, László Tasnádi. State security files on magnetic tapes encrypted until 2060 shall be made available for research. It is also unacceptable that former Communist leaders can also be politicians in this supposedly new system, such as the KISZ KB Secretary Ferenc Gyurcsány, while Jobbik would also remove party state leaders from the top of state companies. And then we didn't even talk about accountability. I'm afraid we won't. It's not their punishment, it's their reward. Yeah, I'm thinking about the communist luxury pensions, which are the most outrageous. The withdrawal of a few thousand forints' pension allowances for the communist medals is also a half-solution, while György Mátsik, the prosecutor asking for Péter Mansfeld's death sentence, against whom my colleague György Szilágyi filed a complaint in vain, has not been reduced by a single forint, and who has, as in Béla Biszku and Rezső Rózső, had, to a minimal extent. Thus, they still receive hundreds of thousands of luxurious pensions each month, and this year they also increased their benefits again. In the previous system, it would be necessary to adopt the bill already submitted by Jobbik in July 2010, which was voted out on numerous occasions by the Parliament with the collaboration of MSZP and Fidesz, to the greatest pleasure of Béla Biszku, in order to review the benefits of those receiving a key pension, even without a bonus. This proposal from Jobbik would affect thousands of people, billions of forints a year. May God grant us the opportunity to bring about a change of regime as soon as possible. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-220	Thank you. Dear Parliament, In addition, Mrs Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda, with the title "Destruction in Higher Education." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-04-221	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Events in recent weeks have shown in higher education that there is unprofessional invention in the State Secretariat. But not only are it the professional proposals that are bad, they delay, but also the payment of scholarships. The Klebelsberg Scholarships should have been paid to the students concerned on 15 April, but this was not the case until today. Jobbik, the first of the parties, protested about the disruption, and we asked the Secretary of State, the government, to name the person responsible, who made the payments more than three weeks late. To date, we have not received an answer, and to date there has been no official information from the KLIK on where these scholarships are delayed. There are rumors that today they will actually receive this money, but they were informed already on April 17 that the references will start, but the money has not yet arrived. If a Hungarian citizen is delayed by paying his obligations, for example, his taxes are not paid by deadline, there are consequences. Unfortunately, however, politics continues to operate in Hungary with the government, the state that should lead the way in enforcing the law, not expecting any consequences in this respect. Our professional criticism has taken place over the last two weeks in the area of the abolition of higher education. The State Secretariat practically published a document in which they listed some of the professions, the validity of which is not considered to be justified, and therefore announced that they would like to be abolished. Then what happened? The profession, the Rector's Conference, the National Conference of Students' Local Governments and several committees of the MRK have said that no, this is unprofessional, not justified. Finally, until last Friday, the State Secretary raised his hand and said that all right, with the exception of two majors, will not be terminated, at least next year. What is the lesson in this whole story? The fact that the State Secretariat makes decisions without any technical basis, no professional consultation with the parties involved and there is no evidence of these extremely serious decisions. Because it wasn't about reducing his capacity, let's say, to one or two majors, it was about completely eliminating the possibility of starting the entire course. Among these, I must also highlight the courses founded and well-kept by József Ángyán, such as the agricultural engineer for environmental management and nature conservation engineering, of which the former was the second most popular among the trainings of the Gödöllő Faculty. And from a strategic point of view, it is of paramount importance for Hungary to have a sufficient number of agricultural specialists of sufficient quality, if the government is really voting alongside family farms. Perhaps their most outrageous plan would mean that higher education would be muffled, because they would appoint people who are solely responsible for the government, the secretary of state. They won't have any legal relations with the universities. They will create a majority against the rector and chancellor, and they will exercise veto rights even for the rector. Not to mention that universities will perform outstanding tasks in their daily operation. So what happens? There will be people from the corporate sphere who will do their advisory work without paying - just like Árpád Habony -; they are not legally related to universities, they have no obligation to the university, and then they will give advice and form a majority in this body. So you can imagine how dare they will go against the members of this body of universities. Amazing! This method should not only be completed in higher education but also throughout the entire government and people's grassroots initiatives should be supported, just as university autonomy should not be undermined in higher education, but should be strengthened, and after the appointment of chancellors, after the appointment of the above-planted chancellors, not yet a reins should be placed on universities, but should be left to work and their achievements appreciated. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-222	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title 'Absormafa'. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2015-05-04-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As is well known, Normafa is a valuable part of the Buda Landscape Protection District, the largest contiguous green area in Budapest, and has been a valuable part of the Natura 2000 European nature conservation area since our accession to the European Union. We are talking about an important nature conservation area, which has protected forests, unique natural features, botanical and zoological features, and it has been a daily holiday for generations to Budapest and Budapest thanks to the services in Parkerde. Unfortunately, since the 1950s, this area has been affected by negative urbanisation effects, and many of our unique natural resources are plagued by nature conservation conflicts. Unfortunately, there is no suitable infrastructure for visitors, it is not regulated, chaotic conditions, littering, erosion and noise characterize this unique natural treasure. Thoughtful, consistent rehabilitation would be justified, as would developments that serve the interests of visitors and district residents in the district. The process of a thoughtful, consistent development over the past 25 years, since the change of regime, has been to develop spatial planning and settlement planning along a bottom-up plan hierarchy based on national, county and settlement spatial planning plans. In Budapest, this consists of national, agglomerational and capital city district planning plans, which are built on each other and form a coordination mechanism for the benefit of all and for the benefit of communities. This ensures that the Community interest is enforced, and that social participation is ensured, as well as careful professional preparation and consistency of co-sciences. However, this logic is regularly interrupted by the Fidesz administration, taking it out of the framework of the legislative and planning contexts, and directing these plans by means of independent regulation, like Margaret Island, the Danube Coast, the City Park. This was also the case with Normafa, where a separate law provided for this in October 2013 and a number of municipal decisions, impact assessments, for which the municipality spent 620 million forints from the state budget, and on 17 May the citizens of the district will contribute to the urn to decide on this investment plan. Knowing the political motivations of Fidesz, the decisions are backed by their back-up deals and private investors that influence decision-makers. The essence of the Normafa Act is that it designates new areas intended to be installed in addition to the ones already in place, increases the construction capacity and the height of the building. In fact, it also exempts prospective builders from the statutory obligations to pay forest protection contributions and to make replacement forestforestation for the trees they cut down. In doing so, the government provided a significant surplus of building rights to the owners and investors of the properties concerned. The feasibility study shows that the study presents, in relation to each project element, which organisations will be the builders, what costs will be incurred and who will be the operators. The picture is that the investments with significant revenue would be private investors and they would also be operating, and the municipality would only be able to implement and maintain the functions associated with the expenditure. The study plan did not mention the operation of any developments that might be made with municipal money and its transfer to asset management, as a further detailed implementation analysis will give an account of it. There is nothing in this impact study about the cultural history of the dying party, the restoration of the Libegő. In this sense, overall, such a plan, such a Normafa project, cannot be decided [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The only thing I know for sure is that there will be private projects at Normafa. Without a Concept [[The president's ringing again.]] Without a well-thought-out concept, this project will remain an abnormalfa project, which would be good to avoid. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-04-224	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the first day of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 11 May 2015. I thank you for your work, your cooperation. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:15 p.m.]]
