u2015-09-04-0	Dear Parliament, The 2nd meeting of the Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and later Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the Bolivian speech of Pope Ferenc at the World Meeting of People's Movements. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[Attila Gelencsér takes over his notary seat.]]
u2015-09-04-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In Hungary, the Greenpeace Movement for Hungary made available the speech of Pope Francis on 9 July 2015 in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, at the World Summit of Popular Movements. His words can serve as a guide to all who have a responsible view of human justice and the future of the earth. Pope Francis asks whether we realize that something very bad is happening in our world when soil, water, air and living things are in constant danger. Do we see that all of this is already part of the globalized system? Do we realize that this system has made the system of profit at all costs and mentality dominant? In order to see the processes of our world in its entirety, we must first understand that any significant action in any part of the planet has universal, ecological, social and cultural effects. These effects will raise countries and make other regions miserable. Today, the immeasurable pursuit of money is the dominant view. The service of the common good has been forgotten. When capital becomes a whale and controls people's decisions, when a greedy desire for money reigns, it destroys society, brands and enslaves men and women, destroys brotherhood, turns people against each other. Dear House, However, the situation has evolved beyond the fact that it is unsustainable or unchangeable. The world is constantly changing, and the direction of change is largely up to us. Pope Francis sees the promise of positive change in three tasks. The first thing you have to do is put things from your head to your feet and make it clear that it's not the man for the economy, it's the economy for the man. Humans and nature cannot be in the service of money. Let us say no to an exclusion and unequal economy where money prevails rather than serves. The economy should not be a system of accumulation of wealth, but a management of our common home. The creation of such an economy is not only desirable and necessary, but also possible. It's not an illusion, it's not a utopia. The resources available in our world and the fruits of the work of generations and the gifts of creation are more than sufficient for a life worthy of man. The second task, according to Pope Francis, is to unite people in the path of peace and justice. People want to be the blacksmiths of their own destiny. They do not want guardianship or intervention on the part of those who have greater power and force those who have less power under their control. Neither real nor seized power has the right to deprive people of the exercise of their self - control, because new forms of colonialization usually begin. This seems to be a hidden influence of the mammon; capital companies, credit agencies, the introduction of certain free trade agreements and austerity measures, which are always tight on the belts of workers and poor people. Colonisation reduces poor countries to purely raw materials producers and cheap labour. This inequality creates violence that neither the police nor the military nor intelligence can control. Let's say no to old and new forms of colonialization. The third task that the pope emphasizes is perhaps the most important thing for us today: it is the protection of our mother. For a long time, the robbery, destruction and damage to our shared home has been unpunished. To defend this process cowardly is a serious sin. We cannot allow certain global, but not universal, interests to prevail over states and international organizations and to continue the destruction of creation. At the end of my speech, I will end with the words of Pope Francis. So let's not be afraid to say we need a change. We want a change. Let us say together from the heart: no family without housing; no peasants without land; no workers without rights; no people without self-determination; no individuals without dignity; no children without childhood; no young people without a future; no elders without decent old age. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-04-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr István Nagy wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-04-3	Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank you, first of all, for your speech, in which you remind me, as before, of climate change and other global problems such as poverty and crime. We are pleased to see that these are consistently dealt with by church leaders, including Pope Francis. The Holy Father is about a change that determines the future of mankind in the long term, which, according to his speech, is both a challenge and an opportunity at the same time. The phenomena detailed there can lead to a new course of economic development and require a change of lifestyle, which we need to recognise in time and take advantage of. A positive change must be made, which, by halting the processes dominated by profit at all costs, calls our attention to the service of life on earth and of the human community. Although it is not a recent phenomenon, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is of the opinion that it is almost certain that continued warming and associated extreme events can be attributed to human activity. The conventions to deal with them are usually ratified among the first in Hungary. We are currently preparing a new Global Climate Convention, the so-called Paris Convention, which is much more open to non-state actors and a number of UN institutions and in which our country plays a major role. This was part of the inspiration given to Pope Francis's encyclical published in June, which, however, broadening the picture not only about climate, not only about environmental protection and not only about capitalism, poverty and crime, but also about all the problems affecting the world, stressing the need for change. We all know that a healthy environment determines not only our quality of life but also benefits from competitiveness. Our priority is to ensure that the country's economic development goes hand in hand with the preservation and sustainable exploitation of natural resources and values, so that the right to a healthy environment as set out in the basic law is enforced. The head of the church also supports the need for change with a number of other global problems, such as wars, human dignity, poverty, and even migration. In this connection, I would like to emphasise that we believe that social policy must serve freedom and security at the same time. Freedom here means that in the name of social justice, there must be means, conditions, equal opportunities for the fullest possible development of individual abilities. Guaranteeing security means, on the one hand, satisfying the most basic human needs and, on the other hand, ensuring that, in the event of some difficulties, the standard of living of the individual or family concerned does not fall too much, as the right to social security is a constitutional fundamental right. The change of regime in our country has led to a significant extension of freedom, which has a very high level of security loss. [[9.10]] The negative social and economic processes have started and have strengthened over the past 20 years, which have undermined the sustainability of the current social policy structure. In the future, it is essential to enforce the long-term sustainability aspect of social policy. In the face of demographic challenges and changes in economic processes, our government pays particular attention to the families that are the cornerstone of society, but also seeks to embrace our most vulnerable countrymen, as confirmed by the measures implemented in recent years within the framework of the Hungarian national strategy for social inclusion and other government documents. The papal concept is fully in line with the EU's relevant strategy and the government's approach, which combines economic growth with a more cohesive society, which sees it as a means of modernising welfare systems in the first place. Dear House, We welcome the pope's Bolivian speech from the government, especially because it connects climate change in a global perspective and other global systemic problems, but its main value is that it is addressed to all people. We are committed to ensuring sustainable development, the same part of social justice and economic balance as preserving the natural heritage of the Earth for our offspring. At the same time, I take the opportunity to announce that at the end of November 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture is organising a wide-ranging professional conference on the environmental role of churches in the papal encyclical. The aim of the conference is to launch a cooperation with the churches that, in the spirit of encyclicals, would contribute to the service of the environment. Finally, let me say that Christianity should play a much greater role in our lives and in the world, and then we could build a much better world together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-04-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of equal opportunities and equal treatment. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-04-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Just as in the case of asylum, when they need help, the government does not provide assistance, so can the Hungarian working people. Yes, it can be said, because, by the way, in relation to asylum, the draft laws to be tabled even want to destroy Hungarian people, build the system of authoritarian regimes in Orbán, and further strengthen it. Anyway, in order to stay on the subject, an individual has been submitted at the initiative of the Curia and, after 40 years of eligibility, has been adopted by the Curia to consider the possibility of men retiring within the framework of a referendum. I see that not only the institutional system of the referendum has been made impossible, but if there is a chance and opportunity for it to come to life, they will also try to prevent it in concrete cases by all means. You are doing this to limit the freedom of opinion, that is what you are doing, threatening, scaring those who are in retirement from one side, that your pension will be reduced, and from the other side, you are trying to create hatred for those who should be thanked, because during 40 years of entitlement, they have worked a lot and put a lot of money on the country's table. What is the situation in Hungary in this regard? I suggest you look at today's Hungarian pension system, and you will see that, unfortunately, only one in five and 20 percent of the people in retirement were able to gain 40 years of entitlement in this country. Take a look at how many contributions these people have paid after 40 years of entitlement. I'm gonna help you make a contribution of about 180 months' pension, that's like 15 years, isn't it? In the case of men, the expected period of birth is around 72 years, and in the case of women it is 79, so men are not really very large beneficiaries in this regard, because they may not be able to use the pension as much as they have paid in contributions. I must also add that in the case of men, a real 40-year employment relationship must be created in order to even mention what could happen through the institutional system of referendums. In the case of the ladies, this is 32 years and can be supplemented by years of family education, which is perfectly fine, and I would just like to indicate that due to Hungarian customary rights, men can participate in this much less. By the way, even if you were involved, you were forced out today because there is no such possibility that you can account for these periods in an appropriate manner to obtain the period of entitlement. One word, like a hundred, is always said that the system is impossible from the source side, because this means the entry of 100 to 120 thousand people, causing a HUF 150 billion expenditure. I would like to tell you that we can also achieve results on the revenue side. Let's say it would be worth cutting back on the enrichment of friends, pereputty, in terms of stadiums, in terms of luxury spending and government waste, but to be even more specific, let's say, look at the 2015-18 convergence programme, as a result, they expect an increase in tax revenues of HUF 1100 billion in 18, which is eight times more than I said, in terms of resource demand. Take a look at the fact that, in the context of the green dossier, the detection of VAT fraud is worth a thousand billion forints, and look at the fact that if only 10 percent of the black economy is bleached, this will bring about 500-600 billion forints, which is three times four times what is needed to cover this. But we're looking at the most important thing. In five years, 500 000 young people of active age have left this country as economic refugees to other parts of Europe, ensuring their livelihoods and livelihoods. The coming years ahead will be no different. It's obviously a lot harder to bring back, almost impossible than to keep young people here. For this reason, it would be logical to consider and consider whether, after 40 years of eligibility, men should be able to retire, if their situation is the case, and even within the framework of a special programme, let us involve the under 40 age group in the economy, involve them in the world of work, strengthen the Hungarian economy, be contributors. The Hungarian Socialist Party also supports this because its free choice must be maintained, not authoritarian [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] decisions must be taken within the limits. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-04-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Czomba wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-04-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is an important issue when we talk about the problem of early retirement, and in this connection I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that it was just the current government who took the first important step in this regard in terms of women, and the type of positive discrimination that women are not able to be present in the labour market as men, and, in particular, we recognise the extra work and additional tasks associated with having children, and they do a lot of work after which they do not withdraw pension contributions, but it is effective, and it is a very serious work, and this type of positive discrimination has been introduced in the case of women. There is now a debate about what is going on with men. If, in general, the question of the person who has worked 40 years, I say that in any job, he deserves to retire otherwise, then the answer is very simply, most likely to be yes. If the question is whether we can do this, whether we can let people go with a full pension, whether the budget and I are approaching this problem from a non-budgetary perspective, but from a labour market perspective, we can do this, then the situation is far from as clear. Allow me, Congressman, to give you some specific information on this. Firstly, it is not true that 500 000 young people have left Hungary in the last five years. Since 1989, migration processes have been examined, since what the HCSO has brought out, since 350,000 people are now working abroad, so it is far from so what you claim. The other: of course, in 2004 we joined the EU because we wanted to give Hungarians the opportunity to work freely. In 2011, the German and Austrian labour markets were open and, accordingly, the processes that helped to work abroad, particularly along the border, accelerated. [[Nándor Gúr: How many foreigners work in Hungary?]] But we basically don't have a problem with that. [[9.20]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, the employment rate between 25 and 50 years of age in Hungary is around 80%, similar to the average of the European Union. By contrast, the rate is 40 per cent for 50 years, especially for people over 55 years of age, and the employment rate for people under 25 is 25 per cent, and it is extremely low. This is where we need to help most, and with this kind of initiative, it is precisely the message that, in fact, during the next period, we should reduce the number of potentially potential workers who can, want and can work above 50 to a drastic extent. You know very well, Mr President, the labour market does not work by leaving the labour market, and then a young person enters instead. If this were so ideal, this could be handled very easily. At the end of each month, at your time, there were 50-60-70-80 thousand vacant posts and there were in the competitive sector. It is not certain at all that the employer will replace the one over 55 who will be retired, replace young people, or have just as young people in the area that the labour market needs. So this problem is much more complex. I believe that this kind of question is a relatively very popular and relatively simple question, if the simple answer is whether it deserves it or not, as I said at the beginning, but it is irresponsible to look at this question only from this point of view. The other very important question - to give some figures - is that in the next four to five years 50,000 people will retire from the deficit trades. 12,000 engineers will retire. I'd like to point out that so many people aren't going to graduate from colleges and colleges, so we're not going to be able to make up for it quantitatively. And I might add: doctors of 8300 people, health professionals of 9100 people, construction workers of 10,000 people. I think that we need to approach this issue very carefully, very carefully. It is worth keeping the subject to the surface, but to the extent and in the way that we are able to provide meaningful and real answers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szászfalvi, from the KDNP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-04-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The protection and security of Hungarian families is one of our most important tasks, since the family is the foundation and future of our nation and society. Unfortunately, Hungary was indebted by 2010 and the state was indebted between 2002 and 2010, as we know, public debt increased from 53 per cent of GDP to 83 per cent, the government's debt grew radically to 1400 billion forints, and the family's debt increased by 5 times between 2002 and 2010. For example, the socialist government at the time abolished social policy support, preferential public housing and housing lending, tax relief for children. The left-wing liberal government has done nothing, and even with its inability and inability to act, it has added to the problem. Ferenc Gyurcsány himself told us that they did nothing but imitate the government and abandoned the families. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Since 2010, the civilian government has taken a number of measures to slow down and then halt the increase in public debt, taking over the debt of municipalities to the tune of HUF 1400 billion for some 2 thousand municipalities. In order to protect families, we have introduced a reduction in the costs, we have launched an Erzsébet programme, we have developed a family tax system, we have extended tax relief for children, we have re-stabilized the system of children and children, we have introduced extras, we have extended the free children's meals, we have introduced a free textbook system, and we have also taken a number of measures for foreign exchange creditors: exchange barrier, end-payment, creation of a National Asset Manager, accountability, forintification. This series of measures helped families and foreign exchange lenders for thousands of billion forints. Dear Parliament, However, with all these measures, we could not help everyone, which is why it was necessary for the Parliament to adopt the law on debt settlement for natural persons tabled and adopted by KDNP representatives, which entered into force on 1 September. What is the point of the law that came into force? Firstly, it strengthens social cohesion and strengthens solidarity in Hungary in a coherent manner in the form of a European model, but also in the governance measures of recent years. Secondly, it is an opportunity for those who are the most vulnerable in Hungary today, who may have already lost hope. Thirdly, the private institution can help families in an impossible situation recover within a reasonable period of time. Fourthly, under the conditions laid down by law, the life of those who use the private institution on the basis of a free decision is settled not only in a material sense, but also in a mental sense, and I can safely say that these families can start a new life. In addition to the regionally competent government offices, families in difficulty and in need of assistance will find the most important information on the opening of the debt settlement procedure, the start-up of the creditor banks and the website for information on the main features of the two main parts of the procedure, the out-of-court and the judicial debt settlement process. This legal institution is not a compulsory option, but a free choice. This requires determination and will. The joint objective can be achieved through cooperation between the debtor, creditors and the State. The goal agreed jointly in the agreement is therefore cooperation, partnership, but it is hoped that, in as many cases as possible, an out-of-court settlement is necessary in order for the desired goal to be truly attainable. In conclusion, it is the most important task of all to strengthen the security and security of Hungarian families. We must help this through all possible and legitimate means. KDNP has consistently supported and will support the government's family support and family security programme. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Róbert Répássy, State Secretary, wishes to respond to the speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Thank you for giving us the opportunity to speak again about family bankruptcy here at the Parliament meeting. The essence of the debt settlement process of natural persons, i.e. the private bankruptcy procedure, is that, by coordinating the interests of the debtor and creditors, debt settlement should be carried out under public supervision in such a way that it results in the debtor being removed from the debt trap. Private bankruptcy helps those who are insolvent. Private protection may be initiated by a debtor whose assets, his or her repaymentable income are not sufficient to meet repayment obligations relating to his or her accumulated debt. Under private bankruptcy, debts are settled with the aim of restoring the debtor's ability to pay. The law governing private bankruptcy gradually extends the possibility of bankruptcy to individual residential groups. Priority shall be given to credit lenders whose residential property could be forced to sell without bankruptcy protection. The family property supervisor, who is an insolvency expert, has a key role to play in the successful conduct of debt settlement procedures. Family property managers are impartial persons associated with the family bankruptcy service. The central body of the family bankruptcy service shall be the department of the Justice Office. The territorial bodies of the family bankruptcy service are the departments of the metropolitan and county government offices. The activity provided by the State family bankruptcy service is free of charge to the debtor. [[9.30]] The role of the family administrator is primarily to prepare decisions and monitor the implementation of the decisions of the court. The agreement is approved by the court, since there is a substantive legal decision which must be respected by both the debtor and the creditor. During the court debt settlement procedure, the debtor's partner's management is under the supervision and control of the family administrator. It is also important to point out that bankruptcy protection cannot be abusive, nor can bankruptcy protection be fraudulently abused during the procedure. An out-of-court debt settlement procedure was established as the first stage of the private bankruptcy procedure. The procedure shall be initiated with the main creditor by means of a form provided for in the implementing regulation. The debtor shall be entitled to prior bankruptcy protection from the initiative of out-of-court debt settlement. The scope of ex ante bankruptcy protection is for debt settlement initiatives, so enforcement against the debtor cannot start, and the ongoing implementation will be interrupted. The debtor's obligation to keep his or her assets and income available for the purposes of debt settlement, not to assume any new obligations, not to charge his or her assets, not to sell them, and not to withdraw cover for creditors' claims. The out-of-court debt settlement procedure is successful if the debtor and his creditors have concluded an out-of-court debt settlement agreement. However, if no agreement has been reached with creditors outside the court, the procedure will turn into a court debt settlement procedure, which is a civil non-court procedure. The purpose of the court debt settlement procedure is also to establish an agreement between the debtor and the creditor on what renegotiated conditions and payment facilitations are to settle the debts. The settlement negotiations shall be organised by the family administrator assigned to the debtor. The settlement between creditors and the debtor shall be sent to the court for approval by the family administrator. The court debt settlement procedure may be wound up with an exemption only if the debtor has complied with the court's decision on the modalities, timing and minimum recovery of creditors. The successful completion of the debt settlement procedure is the judgment of the court of discharge. A debt settlement register has been established on the data of persons outside the court and subject to judicial debt settlement procedures, which is a central public official register containing basic information relating to the debt settlement procedure. The Registry shall be kept by the Office of Justice. At the same time, I would like to inform my fellow Members that, at the same time as the entry into force of the law on 1 September, there were rules at the level of the regulation for its implementation. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-04-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda. The broker scandal has once again lost money, the big fish have escaped again, and the president of the Financial Supervisory Board has even been appointed. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-04-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Corruption causes direct damage to Hungary about HUF 400 billion each year, and surveys from various corruption research institutes show that the situation has only deteriorated since 2010; the rate of corruption has increased in Hungary since the entry into office of the Orbán government, even at the level it achieved during the socialists. There is a professional consensus here. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] How did the analysis companies get this far, so far, to the professional consensus? By asking company managers, businessmen about exactly what they experience in Hungary, how many times they ask them for money in exchange for various benefits, how many times they have to put their hands in their pockets in order to speed up administration. That's how they got to the point of unfortunately increasing corruption. This is also harmful because it contrasts with the Hungarian entrepreneurial society, not only to increase public procurement, but also to ensure that money, wealth, is not transferred to people who would otherwise be able to bring competitive businesses to life at international level, but also to those who have good relations with politics, decision-makers, the government. What can we now see in Hungary? The leaders of Hungary's most influential companies, the largest contracting companies, come out of the Prime Minister's immediate environment. This wealth, which these people acquire, is always the source of very fruitful contracts with the state or municipalities. These entrepreneurs do not acquire the money on the market, but through very fruitful contracts with the State and the municipalities. We've called a whole series of them, we've mentioned them, we've filed charges in these crimes. For example, there was state aid paid to offshore companies with HUF 21 billion. We found 74 offshore companies, filed a complaint. I'm asking you, what happened? Nothing has happened in this case, no one has been held accountable, no one has been replaced because the government deals with offshore companies, and unfortunately everyone has escaped in this case. There's a broker scandal. What do we know? Around HUF 300-400 billion is the amount of damage caused by the brokerage scandal. When Antal Rogán first said about it, he said that this was a series of thefts 15 years ago, it started - and I quote his words - the series of financial corruption crimes. I'm asking you who was in office 15 years ago. The first Orbán government. During the first Orbán government, the series of thefts begins, the socialists continue unbroken during the eight years, and the second Orbán government loses control, the leader of Quaestor was not discovered, but the leader of Quaestor himself came forward with a letter to the Prime Minister and reported that the money had certainly disappeared. And then there was a big scandal about this because the case broke out. But what do we see here? Most of the money has not been recovered, the people responsible, the big fish, have escaped, and in fact the small capital, the small people of Hungary, are in great damage. In my constituency, Cegléd, for example, the money was taken from 25,000 small investors without a single honest control of the financial supervision of the competent brokerage company for years. The same thing happened at the Kun-Mediator and I could tell you more. In these cases, therefore, there was no accountability. But since the Fidesz government's friends run financial supervision, Károly Szász, who was president of financial supervision for three years from the period in question, he was even awarded by the government for his outstanding work at the head of financial supervision. It is also worth seeing that only two dozen independent brokerage firms cannot be checked by the entire apparatus of the Hungarian National Bank for years, because they are busy making castle purchases and renovations. Well, it's not a construction business, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian National Bank! You should be on guard, which is one of the primary tasks of the law to protect the country's monetary security and control the financial sector. I guess they didn't. It is also worth seeing how the Fidesz government treats its friends: In May 2010 the average salary was 653,000 forints, in June 2015 900 thousand forints in the Hungarian National Bank. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The money disappears, the salaries increase, and there is no accountability - this is your policy, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-04-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't think you're aware of the facts about broker scandals. Here, he listed what Jobbik would like to see as a fact about the governing parties. But that's not the facts. Let's see it in a row. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Rogán said! Is Rogan lying?]] The effectiveness of the audit: it has already been found that in 2004 the control of brokerage companies was abolished during socialist governance, there was simply no control and this was restored under the Fidesz government. So much so that in 2013 the Hungarian National Bank and the PSPA were merged, and a new, effective control tool, method and system was developed. [[9.40]] It is no coincidence that these brokerage companies failed immediately on the occasion of the first such inspection. The first schedule check was due for this year, and all the brokerage companies that had crimes have already failed. Nor is it true that the investigating authority has not done its job and that those who have committed the crimes - that is to say, they are suspected now - have not been prosecuted, since in the case of all three broker scandals, there are three or three of them in pre-trial detention, who are likely to be suspected of being leaders of these series of crimes. So while in the past, in the case of Postabank, or in the case of other known financial scandals, the unsubs got away with it, this is not true in this case, since in all three cases, three are in pre-trial detention. It is also not true that the government would have been passively watching the events, since it brought several laws to Parliament as soon as possible and as quickly as possible, on the one hand, about the transformation of the financial intermediary system, which meant a tightening up, a more frequent control, with a greater penalty, in which we would have wanted to amend two-thirds of the laws, such as the Act on the Hungarian National Bank. I ask you, if you're so pro-coercive, why didn't you vote for this bill, why didn't you vote for the two-thirds law, and so the Parliament couldn't accept this part of the bill. So you communicate one thing, and in fact, when you have to come to Parliament and decide, you do the opposite. [[A statement from Jobbik: Salad Law!]] Nor is it true that the compensation for small people has not been made, since, under the laws in force, both BEVA and the OBA have performed the compensation in all three cases in accordance with the law. For example, in the case of the Quaestor victims, EUR 20,000 has already been paid to 32,000 people, amounting to HUF 88 billion. In addition, the damage suffered by the DRB banking group to the municipalities was compensated by the government by an individual decision. So it is not true that the small people, the injured, are abandoned by the state, by the government, because, according to the laws in force, they have been compensated. I think it is regrettable that, after the change of regime, such events, financial crimes happen in Hungary, the laws do not restrict criminals. If you're a criminal, you probably don't care if he's breaking the law or what the consequences are. The state, the government, must have the purpose and task of ensuring that those who break the law and commit crimes receive the appropriate punishment. And I think that in every case of these broker scandals, the investigating authority has done its job, and then justice will have its main role. So your statements are essentially false, rather than the wish of a opposition party, your sigh, your criticism of the ruling parties, and not the reality. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-04-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On this two-day sitting of the Parliament, it deals with the issue of immigration. There is a great deal of pressure in Hungary, as we all know, and it is our task to address this problem, to solve it quickly and as quickly as possible. But in addition to deciding on this issue and dealing with this problem, we are also making long-term decisions, because with the decision on which direction Hungary is going, in which direction Europe is going, we are not only defining the fate of Europe for a year or two, but also for the long term, decades or even centuries. So we're talking about historical perspectives. There has been a debate in Europe for a long time on what kind of Europe we want. And now this debate is becoming more and more exposed. Be a Europe that is united, above all else, in which the nations dissolve, the Hungarians dissolve, the Slovaks, the Romanians, the French and a unity emerge, or preserve Europe's diversity, the nations of Europe, and create a strong Europe in a strong alliance founded on strong nations? This debate is currently taking place in Europe, and we are, in a very firm way, on the side of the latter. We want a strong Europe based on strong nations, a strong alliance. That is why it is important that we continue to take steps to protect the borders of the European Union and to protect Hungary's borders. The protection that the laws adopted in the next period mean not only protecting people who live in Hungary and are in Hungary, but also protecting Hungary's culture, but also saving hundreds of thousands and millions of people's lives by not feeding on false hopes, not calling on people to fall for certain criminal groups that encourage them to come to Europe with false expectations, not feeding on these hopes. Because those who have these hopes do share that responsibility, which means that these people will become vulnerable, crippled, and, if necessary, pay for this illusion with their lives. That is why it is important to strengthen the Hungarian police as quickly as possible, to make rules that allow the defence to act, to be able to join the defence system at the Hungarian border. These questions are very important, and it is very sad that at the last time, yesterday, when Parliament decided on this issue, there were 41 Members of Parliament who voted against them. There were 41 Members of Parliament who thought that these were not urgent tasks, it is not important to protect Hungary and protect those people who might come into Hungary, and we do not entertain illusions in these people, unnecessary illusions. That's why I'm holding in my hand the list of these 41 people. [[He's showing it to me.]] What you can get from the information system. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Finally a list!]] It is very sad that this has happened in Hungary [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Gulagás with them!]] For disasters are happening, people are dying because of this illusion that Europe has created in these people, and there are those who continue to feed this illusion. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame on you!]] Crimes take place [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes!]] And some people will share that responsibility. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You assist! The president's ringing the bell.]] Share the responsibility of people who behave in this way [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame on you!]] and they will not help us protect Hungary's borders. One by one and one by one. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Stop it! Shame on you.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: What do you think?! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-18	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Csaba Hende wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-09-04-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, the big question is that history has asked us whether we are able, whether we want to protect the borders of Europe and Hungary in it, and whether as a minimum of state operation we can achieve that knockers at the gates of Hungary should not rush into Hungary and Europe uncontrolled on the green border in a time and manner that they wish to do so, but, in compliance with our international obligations and existing Hungarian legislation, knock at the designated places and, if they are entitled to do so, gain admission. [[9.50]] This is simply what this package of laws is about today, and there is really nothing more urgent, there is nothing more important, there is no more pressing problem today not only for Hungary, but for the whole European Union than this question. That is why you are particularly right when you condemn all those who did not make it possible to vote yesterday, denying the urgency and importance of the matter, that today - today! - we can make a decision on the merits. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Viktor Orbán, László Kövér!]] and thus, within a closed deadline, the amendment of the law which, in accordance with the current Basic Law, will enable the Hungarian Defence Forces to participate in the protection of the border and the insurance of the order. Every sober-thinking responsible politician and I think that all Hungarian people agree that in such a lively crisis, a country, a people, must use all the resources at their disposal. It would be a sin to ignore the otherwise trained and trained military forces in this task and thus weaken the capacity of the Hungarian state. In particular, I condemn completely unfounded opposition claims which threaten military leaders who carry out the orders of legal magistrates who issue constitutional instructions by committing a crime and by international courts. All these people and all these political forces are simultaneously weakening the capacity of the Hungarian state to act and disrupt the discipline of the defence, so I must reject it from this place as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-20	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. A joint debate on the proposal to amend individual laws in relation to the management of mass immigration follows. The submission was made in T/5983. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'd like to inform you that you've given the government 15 minutes of the time frame of the Fidesz fraction. In the debate, I give the floor first to Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, the author of the bill, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-09-04-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, When our country became a member of the European Union on 1 May 2004, an economic, political, legal and partly social change took place. We have become part of a political community in which we have seen the future of Europe, with the obvious benefits of belonging, we must also participate in its burdens, which is what the European idea is about. When we became a member of the Union, in the hope of social, political and economic benefits, the Hungarian state gave up certain rights. Allow me to remind you of a very important item, which I have already declared as a constitutional judge. It reads as follows:. When Member States transferred part of or the exercise of their sovereignty to Community bodies, they did not renounce the substance of their statehood, sovereignty and independence, determining the basis of their state order. Member States have retained the right of free disposal of the principles of their constitution which are essential to maintaining statehood and constitutional identity. This is also included in Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union, stating that the Union respects the national identity of the Member States. There are states, such as Germany, where this constitutional core is specific and specific. It includes elements such as decision to deploy the army, criminal law powers, social policy priorities or culturally important decisions, including fundamental decisions on the school system, family law or the status of religious communities and, in my view, immigration policy. I myself believe that, in addition to maintaining common European values, these areas will and should always remain in the hands of the national legislator, because this is the result of sovereignty, the uniqueness that every state can enter into a community as a value and not in a slavish way, thus contributing to the growth of that community. Why do I firmly believe that this immigration policy is part of this constitutional core? Let me remind you here of the basic rule of public law that state sovereignty consists of a three-way of territorial, personal, and public power. The power of the state extends to foreigners on the territory of the state. Based on these powers, the State may determine what title it provides for to reside in its territory. This issue is an essential element of state sovereignty that Hungary has not delegated to anyone, and from which it has assumed its responsibility, we must now act in accordance with our commitments towards our friends in the European Community, while respecting our international and EU obligations towards refugees. There is unprecedented immigration pressure on Hungary, we could analyze the causes of the current migration situation for hours, the conclusions drawn from asylum statistics. This is being done continuously by professionals, and it is now sufficient to acknowledge factually that thousands of people have been trying to cross the border illegally every day for weeks. Only this year, some 147 thousand asylum applications have been filed in Hungary, with which Hungary registered the second most applications after Germany. In Central European countries, including our country, it is difficult to account for instability in the countries of origin of refugees, which has led to current migratory flows. While we have no responsibility in this, we must nevertheless undertake to comply with our obligations under international law. In accordance with our basic law, the basic task of the State is to protect its citizens, guarantee order and security, preserve sovereignty and protect national borders. This constitutional obligation is added to our commitment to EU law to protect the security of the European Union and its citizens. We must not weaken the security created for European and Hungarian citizens, including, inter alia, the Schengen system, the protection of borders, public security or health care. In addition, however, we cannot abandon people who are in trouble and cannot be helped by anyone else, so we must also meet humanitarian requirements. There will be a legitimate question as to whether we have managed to preserve these achievements, whether we have been able to ensure a system of security and humanity. The crisis is also threatening the immediate threat that the whole Schengen system will be shaken, especially when leading European politicians are talking about the Schengen crisis, as I have been told, for example, in the German Chancellor's Office or the French Ambassador. In the context of mass immigration, we should not confuse immigration for purely economic purposes with immigration from humanitarian constraints. Unlike everyday use of the word, there is a legal distinction between those who need it, on the one hand, immigrants for primary economic purposes and those who are fleeing natural or humanitarian disasters and civil wars, on the other hand, to ensure a better livelihood. In the case of the latter, Hungary is obliged to ensure all the procedures and treatment required by the relevant international conventions and EU rules. However, most of the legislation at international, European and national level, which is intended to address the problems of refugees in the first place, was born decades ago in a different situation, so that some standards need to be corrected. For example, the Dublin system was not prepared to deal with millions of immigrations at the time, and the refugee convention in Geneva was born during the Cold War, among other historical connotations. This package of laws serves the purpose and is why we ask for the support of honourable Members and gentlemen to remedy, at least at national level for now, the problem, trusting that there will be common European solutions for everyone to deal with the situation in the medium and long term as soon as possible. What are we faced with, or within what framework? We are aware of numbers, trends. The two migration routes most used by refugees and smugglers to Europe, namely through the Mediterranean and through the Western Balkans, are a major problem for Europe as a whole, and this wave of refugees does not seem to decrease in the short or medium term. [[10.00]] At the same time, it must be seen that the Western Balkans route will be the biggest challenge, especially with regard to the coming autumn and winter. Our partners in the European Union are quite late, but they are beginning to recognise this and increasingly pay attention to the situation of the countries affected by the Balkan route, including Member States, candidates and third countries. These states need both political and material-technical assistance. We're working on it ourselves with our own tighter tools. We have an excellent relationship with Serbia, for example, and many meetings and joint projects mark the depth of this. However, it is not possible to recall the responsibility of these, partly originating and partly transited States, in particular EU Member States and candidates. Among the current trends, we should also mention that the vast majority of Hungary's transit countries, immigrants and refugees want to travel to Germany, Austria, Sweden, France or the United Kingdom. Moreover, they do not enter the EU for the first time in Hungary, as they come to us in Greek or Bulgarian areas, as well as through safe third countries, Macedonia and Serbia, knowingly avoiding border crossing points, trying to circumvent EU rules. It is clear that common EU action is needed, but everyone must see that the Union is unable to respond in a uniform way to this mass immigration. Hungary is therefore forced to act at national level and to take the necessary measures to comply with and enforce common rules. The legal framework of the EU basically dictates the scope of the Hungarian authorities. As far as border control is concerned, it should be sufficient to refer to the principle contained in the preamble to the Schengen Borders Code, which, I quote, is not only in the interest of the Member States whose external borders it is carried out, but also of all Member States which have abolished border control at their internal borders. Border control should facilitate the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and prevent threats to the internal security, public order, public health and international relations of Member States. This comes from point 6 of the preamble. Pursuant to Article 4 (1) of the Schengen Borders Code, external borders can only be crossed at border crossing points and during their official opening hours, while Article 12 (1) of the Schengen Borders Code provides that border surveillance is to prevent illegal border crossings, to combat cross-border crime and to take measures against persons crossing the border illegally. In addition, in accordance with Article 12 (2) of this Code, border surveillance should be carried out in such a way as to prevent persons from circumventing and deterting checks at border crossing points. Pursuant to Article 4 (3) of the Schengen Borders Code, Member States are to introduce effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in the event of unlawful crossing of external borders outside or outside their official opening hours. Schengen therefore expects effective and decisive action from the Member States and expects appropriate legislation and implementation. Our obligations under the Geneva and Dublin systems also lay down the basic rules for recognition as refugees. Hungary fulfils these obligations, as opposed to some other Member States, by registering asylum seekers and launching the asylum procedure. Applicants must wait for the end of the asylum procedure in Hungary. In reality, however, this is not what is happening, and since we cannot keep everyone in custody because of EU law, they will certainly go to some of the richer European states at the first opportunity. At the same time, let us not be naive, as we are obliged to readmit these persons under the Dublin system if the authorities of other Member States wish to deport them on the basis of the Hungarian registration. This is the case even if it is clear that Hungary was not the first EU country to come to its territory. Hungary has also chosen the legal path in the current critical situation. We consider it particularly important to comply with and enforce the rules of Geneva, Schengen and Dublin, including the protection of the Schengen and EU external borders, the registration of asylum seekers and the decisive and hard action against smugglers, as the situation can only be resolved under the rule of law and at European level. Our current proposals are also aimed at meeting these standards, in line with the situation. The task is not simple. We must face this challenge in such a way that, under the pressure of mass immigration, we can find an effective solution within the framework of the rule of law and EU legislation. This is why the package of laws presented places emphasis on elements such as the acceleration of asylum procedures while maintaining guarantee elements, or the increased level of criminal rigour, among other things, against smugglers. Dublin III. Pursuant to Article 3 (1) of the Regulation, Member States shall examine the application for international protection of a third-country national or a stateless person who lodges an application for international protection within the territory of a Member State, including its border and transit zones. Dublin III. The Member State responsible for the examination of the application pursuant to Articles 3 (1) and 7 (2) of the Regulation is the Member State responsible and is obliged to examine the application for international protection in the territory of which the application for international protection was lodged for the first time. It should also be pointed out that, in accordance with the articles of Directive 2013/32/EU, the Procedural Directive, which strengthen and explain the rules of the Geneva Convention, Member States should respect the so-called non-refoulement principle and access to the asylum procedure in border surveillance procedures. An applicant may only be issued to a third country if the competent authorities are satisfied that the return decision does not result in direct and indirect return or refoulement in breach of the international and Union obligations of that Member State. In my view, there is neither direct nor indirect refoulement in Serbia. This was confirmed by the Director-General for Home Affairs of the European Commission in a letter to the Hungarian Government addressed to the Head of Permanent Representation on 28 August 2015 confirming that Serbia is a safe country. Dublin III. Directive 2013/32/EU and Directive 2013/32/EU provide that Member States may determine which countries they consider to be safe third countries, the country from whose territory they wish to enter or enter illegally as a safe third country that is crossing the border. In view of the fact that there is not yet such a single EU list, Member States applying the safe third country or country of origin principles will make use of this option either by means of legislation or by means of enforcement decisions. For example, Germany and France apply such a list. Hungary has announced the list of safe countries in a government decree, and in Hungary it is determined by the government decree. Hungary considers Serbia a safe country, as our southern neighbour, as EU candidate country, has adopted all relevant international legal conventions and EU asylum requirements in its integrated legal and asylum institutional system, is part of the Geneva Asylum Convention and has accepted all international asylum standards. However, this is a presumption that, if the situation there requires a change of circumstances, it can be reviewed. If the data subject crosses the border illegally from a country where his life is not in danger, the illegal border crossing may be sanctioned under all international conventions, including Article 33 of the Geneva Convention. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Our proposals intend to deal with the situation in line with the above principles as follows. We have heard a lot about the obligations arising from asylum standards and the Dublin system, and we have emphasised the importance of them ourselves. However, there is less mention of the need to fully meet the Schengen requirements at the same time as these obligations. In addition to ensuring the right of European citizens to freedom of movement, Schengen rules are essential in order to increase the control of external borders, in order to ensure the safety of people living in the Member States. It is also obvious that the European asylum system needs to be reformed, on which not only Hungary but almost all Member States are constantly working. [[10.10]] The Dublin system and Schengen can only be interpreted with respect to each other and can only be reformed with this in mind. It is a means of fulfilling all these obligations that the proposed legislation, which has now been submitted, will make asylum authorities' and judicial procedures faster and more effective by maintaining procedural guarantees laid down in international conventions for applicants and Community law, broadening the scope of administrative measures necessary for the legitimate protection of the country's borders within the framework of the rule of law and European standards, and tightening the criminal law regime for people smugglers who abuse the situation of refugees unscrupulously. The amendments tabled now concern ten laws. The faster and simpler procedures for asylum authorities and courts, but with respect to the procedural rights of applicants, will be carried out in accordance with Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. Law and the 2007 LXXX on asylum. amendments to the Act. The implementation of constitutional and EU obligations in relation to the protection of borders and the more effective implementation of the administrative procedures to be carried out at the border will be ensured by LXXXIX of 2007 on the state border. Act LXXVIII of 1997 on the formation and protection of the built environment. Act LIII of 1995 on general rules for the protection of the environment Act CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. amendments to the Act. The law on criminal law and the law on criminal proceedings help to combat human trafficking and to maintain the order of state borders. What is the point of the amendments, ladies and gentlemen? The amendment of the asylum law is essentially aimed at speeding up asylum procedures. It introduces a specific, so-called cross-border procedure, which is permitted by the applicable EU rules, without prejudice to general procedural guarantees and taking into account the specific situation of vulnerable persons such as minors, unaccompanied minors and other persons requiring specific procedures and care. The law empowers the government to declare a crisis caused by mass immigration for a temporary period of time, in addition to informing the National Assembly's Police Committee, in the light of the health crisis as defined by the Health Act. Thus, as in the case of a health crisis, it allows measures to be taken without the introduction of a special legal order in the event of exceptional circumstances laid down by law, which concern only the tasks of the State and the municipalities, and may extend within the limits of guarantee provisions only as long as such aid can be accepted under the Fundamental Law. In such a crisis, the law provides for the possibility of temporary use for public or municipal property, not for private property, and facilitates or refrains from certain administrative procedures for the proper care of refugees and effective procedures. I would like to note here, given that this is obviously going to be discussed in the debate, whether there is actually enough to do with the amendment of a half law or of the Fundamental Law, or whether it should be a two-thirds law. In the legal assessment of the crisis caused by mass immigration, I would like to emphasise once again the following. In the event of a crisis, the use of state and municipal property is possible only in compensation. In the use of state property, the constitutionality problem is conceptually excluded. In the case of the use of municipal property, the Crystalled Constitutional Court test should be applied, which establishes a test of necessity and proportionality in the public interest. This test is completely different from the test for the impact of other fundamental rights. The amendment to the Law on the Protection of the State Border introduces the concept of transit zone. This authorisation shall be granted by Article 43 (1) and (3) of the so-called Procedural Directive of the European Union laying down common rules for asylum procedures under which Member States may carry out an examination of the admissibility of an asylum application at the border or in transit zones of a Member State where the applicant is from a safe third country and may establish the substance of the application in an accelerated procedure where the applicant has entered the territory of the Member State unlawfully - Article 31 (1.1) (h). Such special procedures may take place in the case of a large number of applicants, and in most cases in such cases. The point of the transit zone, like the airport transit, is that it is in the territory of that State, but the entry into the country is not from a foreign police point of view. In addition to the normal border crossing, asylum applications may be lodged in these transit zones, evaluated in an accelerated and on-the-spot procedure and the cross-border procedure in the transit zone should ensure the rights of applicants in accordance with international and Union standards. If asylum applications are admissible, applicants shall be admitted to the country in the transit zones. Changes to the civil order: In order to ensure proper management of a large number of applications in cross-border procedures, specific procedural rules should be introduced, not only in the asylum authority procedure, but also in the procedure for judicial review of the administrative decision, which should be carried out during the period of residence of migrants in the transit zone prior to their entry into Hungary in the legal sense. For practical reasons, the Administrative and Labour Court of Szeged shall exercise exclusive jurisdiction in the review of decisions taken in cross-border asylum procedures, in which it may repeal the decision of the asylum authority and require a new procedure to be carried out. If the applicant so requests, it is also possible to hold a personal hearing in court. The legislation complies with the principles and rules of the Fundamental Law on fair proceedings and the provision of redress. The amendments to the Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Procedure are primarily aimed at strict and effective criminal action against smugglers and help to speed up procedures that respect warranty rights. Illegal border crossings typically enter the territory by smuggling people, without documents or with false documents, which often make it impossible to establish their identity. In order to commit this criminal act, which exploits refugees, endangers their lives and their physical integrity, for the purpose of financial gain, complete criminal organizations are formed. It is hardly debatable that this threat to society, in relation to such crimes, can be addressed both by the general and by the state's special preventive task by tightening the penalties for the crime of smuggling people and by increasing their sentences. Accordingly, the Btk. amendment raises the punishments for the crime of smuggling people. The effective protection of the state's borders can only be ensured at the moment by installing adequate facilities and tools. The function of these facilities is to complete the self-defense of the state and its citizens, and it is also a sign that the State wishes to exercise its duty and that this right must be respected. Circumvention of protection with facilities and damage to facilities jeopardises effective border protection in such a way that appropriate criminal sanctions for sui generis are justified. In view of this, the Btk. In its chapter on criminal offences against the order of public administration, three new legal facts are added, thus criminalising the illegal crossing of the border seal, the destruction of the border seal and the obstruction of the construction work related to the border closure. However, criminal law is only an ultima ratio, a final instrument, but in these cases we want to achieve compliance not primarily with this, but with strict criminal sanctions against smugglers. In milder cases, the planned changes would allow for the expulsion of those who are violating the new rules while suspending imprisonment. The purpose of the amendment to criminal proceedings is to bring about a substantive decision as soon as possible. To this end, it introduces a new form of procedure for criminal proceedings relating to the border closure, whereby two separate proceedings, in the case of bringing them to court and withdrawing from the hearing, are introduced to facilitate their application and the time limit for the conduct of proceedings is reduced. There will be a significant change in the fact that, in the case of border-locked offences, the defendant will be brought before the courts regardless of the penalty limit currently imposed by the law. Dear Parliament, There is a crisis at the southern borders of Hungary, as well as at some Budapest railway stations, and there are significant numbers of refugees and illegal immigrants coming to our borders and staying in the country. [[10.20]] While Hungary also acknowledges European partners - as I have seen in person at the Berlin trial in the beginning of the week - to keep the process within the EU legal framework - while respecting the Schengen and Dublin standards - registers asylum seekers and conduct procedures in accordance with EU rules, we are increasingly confronted with the fact that the vast majority of people who come to us arrive illegally and outlaw the authorities. Many of them work together They're not willing to grow, as I said. They do not have travel documents, entry or residence documents, do not register themselves, so they refuse to give fingerprints, refuse to go to designated reception centres, thereby excluding themselves from mandatory health screening. While other states - and I stress that EU Member States - wish to enter us directly because of their mistake in areas where their lives and physical integrity are no longer in danger, they do not actually ask for the proper Hungarian registration and asylum procedure, their only goal is to circumvent it, so that they can get to the richer European states as soon as possible. The crisis situation can only be resolved in the long term under the rule of law and at European level. Our current pressure on border protection is proportionate, but it is also necessary to protect common European borders and citizens of our country and to enforce legislation. Otherwise, one of the most important achievements of the European Union, the Schengen idea, is called into question, which could lead to a reduction in the European Union's social support, or even the demise of the European Union, and this must be avoided. In the long term, we will only be able to fulfil our task in a manner consistent with European values if we find a solution in cooperation, understanding and support with the Member States. To this end, the Prime Minister of Hungary went to Brussels yesterday to meet with the leaders of the European Union, and he is discussing this with the leaders of the Visegrád countries today. However, it must be made clear that effective joint action cannot be envisaged, which at the same time expresses and strengthens the principles of European solidarity and humanity, as long as the processes do not follow the rules, comply with them and enforce them. The crisis management package we have just presented serves this purpose. Ladies and Gentlemen, In my view, the European Union must act primarily where these situations occur. Personally, I also visited the refugee camp in Lebanon, experienced how people live there, and I believe that Europe has a responsibility, but the responsibility is primarily that in the countries from which people come, the European Union can help and what assistance some European countries can provide. Ladies and Gentlemen, To these efforts, I ask for the honour of the Parliament's support, thanks to the recent pace of the government administration, feeling the weight of the situation, the dedicated work of responsible workers and colleagues, whose cooperation and cooperation may have brought this package of exceptional importance to your table. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-22	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-09-04-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 3 September 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed, in the framework of an exceptional hearing, the T/5983 on the modification of certain laws in relation to the management of mass immigration. Bill No. 1. The reason for this exceptional method of negotiation is that the number of illegal border crossings has increased dramatically. Migration, in particular its illegal forms, poses serious difficulties for the country. It has become appropriate to examine a number of aspects of the solution to the problem, which entails changes to the legislation concerned. Nine amendments were tabled by the Committee, two of the nine amendments were initiated by the pro-government representatives of the Legislative Committee, which was accepted by the Legislative Committee. In view of the best interests of juveniles, Amendment 1 primarily requires house arrest in emergency measures and adds to the bill the facts of human trafficking. The amendment No 2 proposed by the pro-government members of the Legislative Committee amends the law on the transformation of the built environment in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration. Here, the amendment of the Legislative Committee adds points to the admission procedure of the reception centres. It was raised at the committee meeting whether the introduction of the provisions laid down in the bill, in particular the crisis situation caused by mass immigration, was a fundamental law, and here the State Secretary Felkai and Répássy gave a satisfactory answer. This was raised by opposition representatives. The problem here is essentially that the person who raised it did not distinguish between the special legal order contained in the Fundamental Law and the concept of crisis. As the Minister said in his expo, the crisis is already part of the Hungarian law in the Health Act, so this can be regulated without further delay by a half law in the Asylum Act. The bill amends ten laws. I would perhaps like to mention the most important of these: the amendment of the Criminal Code, which lays down the rules on expulsion, provides for more serious penalties for smuggling people, and creates a new state of the area of border closure. It also amends the Code of Criminal Procedure so that a substantive decision can be taken as soon as possible in these illegal border crossings. The bill also amends the 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures and certain coercive measures and detentions. Law. Here, too, it regulates the rules of crisis, pre-trial detention and enforcement caused by mass immigration, or introduces new provisions into the law. The seven opposition amendments were not supported by the committee, for each of them for which a request was made, Mr Répássy, State Secretary and Mr Felkai, explained in detail why they had not supported these amendments. Overall, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment or the summary report by 26 votes to two. The committee, by the way, discussed this bill for a little more than two hours, so I think that the Legislative Committee has also given due attention to the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fidesz fraction has 15 minutes, the other factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent representatives have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[10.30]]
u2015-09-04-25	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Parliament is now discussing a legislative amendment package that would help the Hungarian Government and Hungarian government organisations to ease the immigration pressure on Hungary and try to treat immigrants fairly, humanely and legally on the basis of European laws, Hungarian laws, Schengen legislation and Dublin protocols. This problem is obviously one of the most important current problems for everyone today. When we announced in January to the Hungarian Parliament's Defence and Police Committee that immigration pressure may be unbearable this year, and now we need to prepare to do something with common thinking, then primarily the socialists, but other smaller left-wing parties said that there would be no question, that the Fidesz faction, so to speak, would distract attention from other important problems. It has now become apparent that they were wrong, unable to assess that if they see a sequence of numbers in 2012, 2,500 in 2013, 18 thousand in 2013, 42 thousand people who illegally crossed the Hungarian border, primarily the Serbian-Hungarian border, the Schengen Hungarian border, then there is no need for intellectual achievement to be seen this year. It did. It is typical of their attitude that they are now saying that, while in January they said that it was Lárifári, it is not a problem, and now they are asking what the Hungarian Government has done, what the Hungarian Parliament has done in the past. And when we list the many measures that the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament, had already taken - from the amendment of the legislation that allows the Hungarian Government, in accordance with European rules, to designate safe third countries, so that the Hungarian Parliament had discussed the package of legislation on speeding up asylum procedures during spring and early summer, so that the police would base the decisions that could be taken at the beginning of the summer to establish a border closure, a secure border closure or a security border closure, so that the asylum office could be prepared that even if the number of illegal immigrants grew beyond all borders, the system would not come to its head, they would have to take the preparatory steps to establish the law, which would at all make it possible to establish the legal basis for the closure of the border, because we know that the land problems, the field survey was an incredible amount of tasks - then the socialists would all say that this is not enough, that these are fake measures and that there should be real measures. Now, when, by the way, the government has submitted some proposals to the Hungarian Parliament, part of the Fidesz Group, which we wanted to discuss by way of derogation from the house rules, because we see that we do not have unmanageable situations, see the Keleti Railway Station, which is known only as the Middle East railway station in the Pest Slang because of the unbearable situation, it is obvious that a quick solution is needed, what does the Socialist Legislative Group do? He does not vote in favour of the extraordinary procedure, he does not vote in favour of a derogation from the house rules. You know very well that you cannot prevent these amendments that are necessary and even some of which you have supported, you know that this was also clear from the debate before yesterday's agenda that the two-thirds of the changes in Parliament also have a majority, if someone was watching the debate before the agenda yesterday, then it was clear from the speakers who spoke before the parliamentary agenda, that they did not mind, that they wanted to put a broomstick between the wheels of the bicycle at all costs, that they knew that this was not good for anything, but that it was typical of their completely irresponsible and persuasion, that they did so, obviously because they had an interest in making the untenable situation before the East as long as possible, that the Hungarian authorities could not be helped. Oh, by the way, are they blocking the work of the Hungarian authorities? ! Oh, you're not helping with Parliament's legislation? ! They're very quiet about that, of course. And by the way, it may be with false actions and no good speech to arouse the anger that is not needed. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: With the poster campaign! Who put all the glue on the country?]] And this situation is going to get worse, by the way. Fortunately, it is not up to the socialists what is happening in Hungary, because the pro-immigration policy that the socialists have followed throughout today would really create an unbearable situation in Hungary. What I would like to ask is that the debate, as the whole wave of immigration itself, this entire modern migration has started, obviously does not have to end in examining whether or not the fundamental reason for this wave of immigration is to be sought in Hungary, because it is obvious that it is not. It is clear that the behaviour of the European Union so far has contributed significantly to the fact that the wave of immigration is now insufferable and slowly unmanageable. It would be possible to quote with its dozen the completely wrong political statements, the total incomprehensibility of the world, on which, by the way, from the time the labour force problem of the European Union will be solved by immigrants, which is obviously impossible if we just look at the fact that the labour socialization of immigrants, their language, communication problems or even the differences in their skills are almost insurmountable compared to the European labour market conditions, it is quite obvious that this wave of immigration has been triggered by this test, inaccessible behaviour of the Union, which, moreover, is unable to recognise or seems unable to recognise that time is above certain political and legal arrangements established decades earlier, much faster than we can see. Dublin III. The minutes are not decades old, and the ministers of justice in Germany, France, Italy and England are constantly saying that the institution is creaking and creaking, and the whole thing needs to be rethinking. It is typical of the European Union's capacity to act that it was decided with a joint decision that the European Union would jointly fix the safe range of third countries, which it was unable to do, and that it had returned it to the competence of the Member States. Because the principle wasn't attacked, they just couldn't solve the fact that the few countries that are at arm's length from Europe, and it's obvious that they have a decisive view of the whole immigration issue, where they put it, even though it's just a tiny segment of the whole problem. So that the irresponsible policy and behaviour of the European Union have obviously contributed significantly and is the root cause of this modern migration, it is obvious. But let us not forget that behind this, there is a very well-organized, very conscious international criminal network, the man-smuggling mafia, which, by means of false promises and deception, asks illegal border crossings from 3 thousand to 5 to 8 thousand euros to bring them into the promised land, which is a lie, is not true, it is possible to see that Europe is far from being able to achieve the promises that these really difficult people are being seduced by these gangs of crime. Dealing with these and addressing the problem is clearly a common European matter. It is a single, independent problem for individual countries, but the real solution, the real solution, for example, is the statement that Europe does not have an immigration policy, as it does not, so it does not accept immigrants or political refugees, who, by the way, account for a fraction of illegal border crossings. Only one number: In Hungary there are fewer than 300 people now who have received political asylum from the Hungarian authorities, while only this year there are over 150 thousand people who have applied for it. Let's compare the proportions. Obviously, the problem is common, the solution must also be common, but Hungary, as a country with a Schengen border, knows its duty, thinks, feels, and I hope that Parliament supports the government, in accordance with international law, in accordance with the Dublin Protocols, can protect its borders and manage this wave of immigration of its own strength. [[10.40]] These laws are to make it possible or to support it. I need your support. And please consider that it will have to be accounted for in front of the electorate, because there will also be a time for who has contributed to Hungary's ability to deal with the problem of immigrants and who, with its pro-immigration policy, really supports the situation of Hungary's drowning in chaos in dealing with this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That was kindergarten level!]]
u2015-09-04-26	Thank you, Congressman. With all due respect, my fellow Members, everyone will have the opportunity to present their position, and I do not like to disturb lead speakers on the move, so please respect each other's rights. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the analysis of the law, allow me to continue where Lajos Kósa left off, and what Bence Tuzson did here before the agenda, simply cannot be ignored. Mr Tuzson Bence has started listing Members of Parliament here today. He flogged a list of people who allegedly made Fidesz unable to carry this completely unconstitutional madness of his across Parliament in one day. I would like to propose one with great respect to both Mr Tuzson and Mr Kósa and to all the Fidesz politicians who speak. Don't forget that Viktor Orbán, László Kövér and Péter Szijjártó are at the top of the list. The Prime Minister, the Speaker and the Foreign Minister, who did not come into Parliament yesterday as a Member of Parliament, and did not provide themselves with the four fifth majority in Parliament. [[Great applause and interruptions in the benches of the MSZP.]] Shame on you and don't open your mouths on this case again. Dear Parliament, The position of the MSZP on the bill before us and on asylum government management is the following in short. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] 1. The government, and especially Fidesz's submitted bill, clearly aims not to solve the refugee issue, but to limit the fundamental rights of Hungarian people. They also want to use the defence as a tool, use and use it against civilians, including children and women, and, of course, if it so happens, to the Hungarian population as well. 2. It is not the leaders of the European Union or Germany, but the Fidesz and personally Viktor Orbán who are responsible for the chaos at the Keleti Railway Station and the railway stations of the country. 3. You have not complied with the current price of lies in recent days, on the contrary: you have ignored the Schengen rules. You put the Schengen area at risk, you gamble with the freedom of travel of the Hungarian people, you play Russian roulette on the one hand with the safety, health and freedoms of the Hungarian people and on the other hand with the lives of the refugees arriving here. But the gun's been fired in the last few weeks. As far as our detailed opinion is concerned, the two legislative proposals tabled by the government and Fidesz, referring to the situation that has arisen, essentially contain closely related elements of the same regulatory subject, and I therefore express my position on both of these legislative proposals in this speaker's speech, as well as in the debate with my colleague, Gergely Bárándy. This is where we give our opinions on both of them, I add, that is what Minister of Justice Trocsányi has just put here as a keynote speaker. Fidesz has already told us in advance that everyone who does not vote for these unagreed laws is a traitor and a pro-immigrationist. However, please note that Fidesz has long since been in a position to formulate dictatorships here in Parliament. This has been tried on countless occasions in recent months, but none of them have worked so far. With regard to the management of asylum, the government policy of the last few months has been a total failure, honourable Members, if the government's aim was to ensure the peace of Hungary and the security of the Hungarian people. It's chaos today. There is chaos in the railway stations of the country, chaos in the streets of Budapest, and chaos is the responsibility of Fidesz and the government. You already knew in January that this year the country has to cope with a refugee wave of up to 100,000 magnitudes. What have you done? What has the government done to enable Hungary to cope with this enormous pressure? I'll tell you: nothing. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz, you're lying!]] Unless they were serious about deterring tens and hundreds of thousands fleeing wars by using Hungarian-language propaganda plates. The peak of government incompetence was the announcement of fence construction. At the beginning of summer, you sent a message to close the borders of the Union from autumn. They will be amazed at the fact that at the same time everyone in whom the idea of escaping to the Union was raised even for an idea. The starting gun of the great Balkan race was fired by you with the announcement of the fence construction. But even in order to drill the EU's proposal to alleviate the situation of Hungary, Viktor Orbán did everything he could. He was one of the biggest opponents of any EU proposal to share the burden of receiving refugees, even though it would be in Hungary's best interest to share the burden. The security of the Hungarian people and of all EU citizens requires that tens of thousands of refugees do not roam the roads of Europe. It is therefore necessary to organise at European level the evaluation of asylum applications, the temporary placement of applicants and the reception of beneficiaries of protection. I would add that the fate of those who are not protected must also be resolved jointly by the Union. Any Hungarian politician who does not fight for this is misinterpreting the Hungarian national interest or, if you will, betray it. While the MSZP drew attention to the fact that the Hungarian authorities were not prepared for this already in January, Antal Rogán was still sitting there in July - I repeat, in July - when he said: "The solution to the problem is that we are not dealing with how to strengthen the institutional system, how we can receive as many immigrants as possible, how we can deal with their questions. And today, before the agenda, we hear from Tuzson Bence that he is now intolerable and must immediately strengthen the institutional system, the police, the Immigration Office. Fellow Members! It wasn't that long ago, and here, in this room, at the very expense of you in the minutes of the lies that you tell each other from week to week. The result of these sinful omissions was chaos at the Eastern Railway Station. For days, Fidesz has been saying that full compliance with EU rules has led to a crisis. However, this is simply a lie. We have to say that Fidesz has been lying for the last eight months. If the Schengen rules had been respected, today there would be 160,000 people in refugee camps in Hungary. Where are these 160,000 people, my honourable members of the government? I'll tell you where they are. The majority of them are already in Western Europe, Germany, Austria and Sweden. Where hundreds of thousands of Hungarian countrymen have emigrated in recent years. If the Schengen rules had indeed been respected, as you claim, the refugees would have been transported directly from the borders to the refugee camp in the last eight months. Of course, if there were places to deliver them, fellow Members. Because even though you knew about the expected wave of refugees in January, you didn't do anything about it. In June 2015, the total capacity of reception centres was less than 2 thousand. I ask you, where would 160,000 refugees have gone? You wouldn't have dealt with the problem, so you didn't even take care of their organized transport, but put them on a train to Budapest. Then they allowed them to roam the streets of Budapest for days, weeks, until, finally, the majority, with trains, buses or smugglers, went to the West in front of the authorities. Everyone saw a photograph of the apartment in Budapest from which they organized the human smuggling operation in which 71 people died, by the way, across the Austrian border. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Gyurcsány's villa.]] That's how you followed the Schengen rules. According to their own official numbers, 67,000 refugees in the first half of 2015 - described in the reply of the Minister of the Interior - left 49 thousand West, and Hungary terminated the procedure against them because of their departure to the unknown place. Sixty-seven thousand out of 49 thousand! But it doesn't have to go far, since Mr. Kósa, in his June speech, bragged that there was no need to deal with this problem - Mr. Kósa remembers it, does he? - because, on average, these refugees do not stay in Hungary for more than two days, and your minister stands out yesterday and talks about Hungary's compliance with the Schengen rules. Joke! [[There are constant interruptions in the benches of Fidesz.]] You have talked for months about amending the asylum rules, but until June a single bill has not been introduced into Parliament. Apart from the debate day, Fidesz had nothing else to do with it. Then, at the beginning of June, they had a three-word amendment of the law, which they claimed would allow all refugees to be sent back to Serbia. This is what we've been listening to in the walls for less than three months. [[Noise.]] [[10.50]] Has your billing proposal been a solution? No. They blackmailed us the same way, threatened us that if we didn't vote for him, it would be irgum-burgum? Yeah. Their next project and their next miracle weapon were the fence. We also listened to the fact that anyone who does not support the construction of the fence is a traitor, a traitor, even though we have said with sound professional arguments that he will not use you for anything. Today we can say that the number of Hungarian-Serbian crossings has not decreased since the start of the fence construction, but has increased several times per day. It was only at the end of July that the government started to strengthen border police and asylum systems on the basis of the earlier proposal of the MSZP. Almost as much money has been transferred to this case as was contained in our bill, and what you - you took - have been removed from the agenda without question. It is a shame, my fellow Members, that Mr Kósa has yet to accuse us in public, when we are not there, that we have not had any proposals! Was there, Mr. Kósa? We have called for an extraordinary meeting, but you have removed these proposals from the agenda. Such a proposal was to tighten the penalty for smuggling people. They sat here and fooled themselves, when I dared to say as MSZP lead speaker, tell the smugglers of Hungary and not the fugitives that anyone who wants to benefit from it, endangering their lives and taking advantage of their misery, will rot in prison for many years. Here they craved and asked for the expression themselves, and now they are bringing in the same proposal in accordance with the text that they did not put on the agenda at the time. Shame on you! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's a good thing we're here! Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] To sum up the events of the past months: the MSZP drew attention to the emerging refugee crisis each time, however, Fidesz did not recognize or consciously did anything to deal with the expected refugee wave. Eight months of hate propaganda, and then from the end of July, the question arises: are the Fidesz and the Orbán government really completely incompetent to deal with the situation, or is Fidesz deliberately increasing the tension to justify the right of the Hungarian people? On the basis of the legislative proposals before us, we can rather imagine this latter explanation. This proposal is not about calming down moods, easing the crisis or ensuring the conditions of normal life, on the contrary, the aim is to increase tension, sharpen conflicts and maintain a state of excitement. It is consciously creating a situation in the country to justify its xenophobic campaign and its subsequent establishment. These legislative proposals are far from propaganda campaigns aimed at increasing popularity, as these proposals already concern the restriction of the most fundamental rights of Hungarian people. Some examples are: the apartment of any Hungarian citizen can be searched without permission. The police can stay in the private residence of the Hungarian people for a longer period of time without permission. The soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces can take action against Hungarian citizens, carry out road checks, and take measures restricting personal freedom. Soldiers can even make mass dispersals against Hungarian citizens as themselves suggest. In essence, the police and defences can exercise the right of residence in Hungary as if they were invading authorities. My fellow government members, politicians who claim to be Christian Democrats, have they even read what they want you to vote for? Don't you see what a terrible time it is for the police to enter private homes without special permission in order to find people hiding or hiding there illegally staying? Do you remember this era in Hungary, fellow Members? [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] They are about to break one of the most fundamental consensus of the change of regime when they authorize the defence to act in the police against Hungarian citizens. I ask my fellow Members: is this where we are? Are civil authorities and police and law enforcement agencies really already beyond their capabilities to deal with the situation? While you have known for months what to expect, while you have known and said exactly what a flood of refugees is expected for Hungary since January, are you putting such a law here? ! In such a case, in a normal democracy, the government apologizes and resigns, ladies and gentlemen. This bill and the deployment of the defence in Hungary is a statement that you are unable to handle the situation with the authorities that are responsible for the order and peace of the police, disaster protection, the secret service and the Hungarian citizens. Now, if you'll just say that, fellow Members, and don't get me wrong. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up: using the increasingly dramatic refugee crisis day by day, an extreme right-wing party and an even more extreme party seem to be bidding on each other with their more insane ideas. It is a bitter historical experience that total power will be the consequence of limiting the most fundamental rights of Hungarian people if society allows for this madness. Under these circumstances, there must be a sober parliamentary party who remains in mind and has an interest in an effective solution to the rule of law in the crisis. The MSZP is such a couple. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] We therefore call on the Fidesz and the Government to withdraw their proposal to restrict the rights of Hungarian citizens. Fidesz must also acknowledge that, in the tense situation that has arisen, its campaign of hatred from political gain has now become life-threatening. Ensuring the security of the Hungarian people and tackling the humanitarian crisis at the Serbian-Hungarian border requires substantial measures. MSZP is willing to sit down with the Hungarian government and Fides if they want a legal and effective solution. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] In the spirit of the proposals presented, Fidesz should decide whether, in cooperation with Jobbik, it will start to abolish guarantees protecting the fundamental rights of Hungarian citizens, while treating refugees arriving here as almost an animal, or whether to use the option offered by the MSZP, and to present effective, but legal, measures to ensure the rights and security of Hungarian people, which also respect the fundamental requirements of humanity, to the Parliament, which you can count on the support of the MSZP at that time. Thank you for listening.
u2015-09-04-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-04-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Every Member in Parliament has the opportunity to say anything in any way. That's what we just heard from Congressman Bellozó. That the voter who clearly sees that the situation that has developed in Europe and Hungary is critical is how he will tolerate it is another question. This settlement will take place years from now. In any case, I'm rooting for the MSZP to continue the journey so far and just dig deeper. As a Member of the Parliament of Mohács, so as a representative of the region, I feel repeatedly addressed in order to express our position on behalf of my group on this crisis and on the government's bill tabled. Two decades ago, when our neighbours fled from the former Yugoslavia along our borders from the border of Mohács to us, we lived in a different atmosphere, which then flooded the Mohács region, as our region is in the mood today, when refugees from Asian countries or those intending to emigrate. At that time, without setting up camps, we took in about 5,000 refugees in the Mohács area, and we felt that it was natural. There have been friendships between us and the border region that continue to strengthen this region. Today, however, this refugee flood is in a very different atmosphere from Baranya County and the border area. Yesterday, my better fellow Members appeared in Martonfa T-shirts at the Parliament meeting. Martonfa belongs to my constituency, I have a relationship with the Martonfas, and I would also like to express my position on Martonfa because of the involvement. [[Forebod Novak: They don't really like you there! Z. Kárpát Dániel: You are not very popular there!]] As Mohácsi, I see that Hungary and Europe do not learn anything from its past. About the same situation in Europe about 489 years ago, when a Turkish army was expected to attack the country. That army meant a few tens of thousands. Europe was still unable to unite, Europe was unorganized, and within medieval Hungary at that time it was the same fragmentation that I see in Parliament today. [[11.00]] In the country's public opinion, I do not see disunity in these matters, because I am convinced that people are sober and 99 out of 100 people think one thing about these issues, but if voters give parliamentary mandates to some people and come into Parliament, interestingly, they show disunity here, which is incomprehensible to me. I think that in a crisis situation, we should line up behind the government and support the government's ambitions, because this is what the electorate expects us to do, and this is what we have been commissioned to do, and not to show what some parliamentary parties are experimenting with here, but have a soul on it. 489 years ago, Hungary and Europe were characterised by this fragmentation, and the result was that the Muslim armies had kept themselves in the country for 150 years, and 150 years later, with the papal-European cooperation that the pope generated, we managed to force the Turkish invaders of the time out of this country. Today, in European leaders, in European bureaucracy, I do not see the possibility that they are able to create such a cooperation. The European Union is talking nonsense, and our firm position is therefore that it is unable to address the problem. Each Member State or major part of the Member States has a different position on a daily basis, and this is obviously the impossible situation that has been or could be intensified here in Hungary today at the Eastern Railway Station and in other places, I think we should say that it is partly the cause of this, too, of European leaders. We also need to be clear that the rule system that the European Union and other international legal standards have established to address the current refugee issue has not been prepared for such a situation. This migration flood cannot be dealt with by this system of rules. The Hungarian rule system, which clearly fits into the European Union's rule system, cannot handle these issues either. Think about the changes that have been happening here for years. In 2012, only 2 thousand people turned to the Hungarian authorities for asylum, in 2013 it was 19 thousand people, in 2014 it went up to 47,000 people, now in 2015 we are at 170,000. The institutional system that was able to handle 2 thousand people clearly cannot cope with a flood of 170,000 people, and this is yet another weak start. If it is true that millions of people are waiting in camps in Asia to move towards Europe and that is what we need to prepare for, then we need to see that we cannot address these issues with yesterday's rule system. It is legal that the government comes up with new proposals, and these new proposals are being discussed in this respect now. What is the key element of the proposals? I think the whole point of this proposal is that we want to capture this flood of immigration along our borders, and we want to filter these people along our borders. At a time when the question is judged, every normal person has a moral question and the claims of his rational mind fighting in us. The moral question is how to stand with the unfortunate people who often starve with children, cold, thousands of miles away from where they are forced to flee, from war zones. All reasonable people in Hungary say that those who leave their country for such a reason should be helped. Besides, we couldn't do anything else. We created the Fundamental Law. Article XIV of the Freedom and Responsibility Chapter of the Fundamental Law Article 3 (3) provides clear guidance on how we look at refugees. We welcome the refugees with open arms, take them in and help them. We know, however, that most of those who come are not refugees, but simply want to emigrate to Europe in the hope of a better life. Each country can manage this in its own way, and decides that it needs a workforce, what the Germans are saying, that they need 1.5 million people, so if the Germans see this as good, let them into their own country, and Hungary can decide and decide on this in accordance with its interests. To create transit zones along the border and try to catch this flood there, I approve. What's the drill today? We have built the border lock and we are building the border lock, because obviously the border lock is not ready yet, we are conducting human forces to control the border lock, by legal means we are tightening the criminal facts of crossing the border, yet for now we see that the country is flooding, entering the country illegally. In the territory of Csongrád county, the police authorities and the immigration office in Csongrád do not succeed with the capacity they have at their disposal, and therefore, among other things, these refugees or those who wish to emigrate have been organized in Baranya for months. I'm familiar with the procedure of the Pécs Asylum Office, how hard work there is. I know and know what happens to the police on Athinay Road. I also know how the Pécs civilians at the train station in Pécs help these people, but it is not a solution to travel them within the country. These people do not want to cooperate with our authorities, and therefore instead of going to those reception places where we would otherwise care for them, because they want to go to Western Europe, they will take the train and not go to Debrecen, where they should, say, go from Pécs, but head for Western Europe. We want to address this issue, and we can only do it at the border in transit zones that will be created by the government, where we can carry out foreign police procedures or asylum procedures. Those who receive asylum can enter the country and then live as a free person in Hungary or Western Europe. Those who do not receive this status must be stopped at the border and deported. I believe that this is the position of the Hungarian people, and it is therefore appropriate for us to take this position as well. The government will have the opportunity to declare a temporary emergency by referring to the immigration situation, and the law will therefore give them the opportunity to proceed with specific rules to deal with the issue without introducing a special legal order. I didn't meet a man in my neighborhood who was terrified that it was the means to say, say, hide refugees or receive them, and therefore the police could knock on his door, so the Hungarian people would be terrified. The Hungarian people are terrified that Europe and we cannot handle this issue and expect us to act like a state, protect its borders, protect the safety of people, and take action to address the situation, and we, Christian Democrats, will give the government all the strength we have to fully understand our moral responsibility. Yesterday at a press conference in Brussels, the Prime Minister said that I would try to quote him in a text or not in a text, but in substance, when he said that we Hungarians are full of fears, Europeans are full of fears, because they see that European leaders are unable to resolve the situation. Just think that those settlements, and let me refer to Martonfa here, are about 200 settlements, and they have every right to fear the Martonfas when they find out that there would be a temporary reception centre next to them. Baranya is a small village, where there is no place for temporary accommodation even outside of the area, so that there is no living space within an arm's reach. I know the location of the reception in Martonfa, I look literally in any direction, I see church towers, there are settlements at arm's length. The government made a mistake when Martonfa was not informed in advance that he would take them into account. [[Well, that would be much better, thank you.]] on the establishment of a temporary refugee camp, at the same time Prime Minister Lazarus [[There's a rumble and a blur in Jobbik's ranks.]] Let me also refer to the statements made by the Minister, who says that such questions cannot be decided by referendums. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Adam Mirkóczki: Why?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is only on the moon that such camps could be set up. [[István Apáti: Why can't it be in Felcsút? In the stadium!]] 'Cause that's about what you could agree on. This is not a referendum issue. However, I think that Martonfa should have been notified of this situation before the decision was taken. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Point of view!]] knowing that there are political forces that want to ride such situations, and it is natural to do so. [[A statement from Jobbik for political gain!]] However, I am commending Jobbik, because we are the only ones who have the support to deal with this issue in some way with and deal with it. [[11.10]] I'm suggesting to the government that you consider [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If we create transit zones, and we are going to create transit zones, then we should focus all our efforts on transit zones, because that is where we want to deal with these issues, and only in light of that, if necessary, to create temporary reception places elsewhere. At the time when Martonfa or Sormas were elected by the government, the transit zones were not even on the agenda. Therefore, I believe that it is legitimate to suggest that this issue can be rethought in this respect, but that the government should take a position on this. In conclusion, I can say that the Christian Democratic Group gives the government all the help and political means to handle this crisis, because it is the expectations of the electorate and we want to comply with the will of the electorate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that the group's position was presented by two speakers. I give the floor to Congressman Daniel Z. Kárpa, the first lead speaker. Here you go.
u2015-09-04-31	Mr President, Dear House, We are talking about one of the most important legislative proposals of the year, and we should debate in a calm manner, looking for solutions. At the same time, we will be faced with a statement from all the factions that are either insatiable or in any event require a response. Just now, with regard to Mr Harghitai's speech, he seems to have given a special opinion for the Martonfas, but you were expected by the Martonfas on the spot, in your own constituency. During the first two weeks, when our fellow Member Enikő Hegedűs was there on several occasions, in the form of a lifestyle in the resistance and at the head of it, waiting for you there. [[Dr. János Harghitai: I was at a village meeting!]] And then they didn't show up. When the plan to build a camp was decided, and when you've read two sentences from a better press conference that, looking around the area, there are church towers in every direction, you've appeared following the events, sneaking around. That's when they showed up. [[Dr. János Harghitai: You're lying!]] When these decisions have already been made. And we have to say that they would have had an influence when Martonfa, Sorma's plan, was found out - not just now - and I will go on: when Big Tree's expansion plan is out, there are at least three places that are at risk at the moment. So you have to sit down with the Martonfa because it's a Martonfa symbol. If Martonfa falls, it means that Fidesz-KDNP can do it with any Hungarian settlement, by installing a refugee shelter or transit zone - or whatever it is called - next to it. Because if the leadership of the city is fidesz, there's a strong suspicion that he doesn't dare to contradict government intentions, if he's oppositional, then he can get the same thing out of revenge. But this may not be the most outrageous of today's speeches, because, as has been said, Jobbik will support all constructive and sensible proposals. This, too, will support the sensible parts of the salad before us, in addition to trying to improve them. But that amazing balliberal declaration tsunami that comes to light, in addition to the fact that an ex-Prime Minister invites migrants to dinner, disgustingly, using people who, if they come from a really difficult line and from an emergency, are the worst thing they can do is use them for public relations in front of TV cameras. It was a disgusting catch. But let's get this over with. The most hideous of the statements of the Balliberal side may be when they talk about the integration of immigrants, migrants, and, where appropriate, their resettlement, but let us remember that when it came to our Hungarian brothers who had broken across the border, the Balliberal camp was not so inclusive at all. He urged me, in the midst of a gastric campaign, to vote against Hungarians who were torn across the border. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] In the midst of a disgusting campaign that you haven't had since, there's no consequences in-house. However, there is also a pro-government statement, according to which Hungary would also support the reception of refugees, so-called refugees, under the Fidesz Fundamental Law. We must reject this from the outset: no Hungarian politician can support any inclusion, no integration, according to Jobbik's view. For those who really need food, drink and very short stay, yes, on a humanitarian and humanitarian basis. But nothing more. So the fact that migrants who have been awarded a positive request for a right to vote in local elections in Hungary because of one of the loopholes in your Fundamental Law is a laughing stock. It's so outrageous and so immediate that we can't find words for it. It only affects a few hundred people, but think about it: your Prime Minister yesterday seemed more comfortable than before in relation to quota-like solutions. We would like to clarify here: on the basis of a quota for Jobbik, deported by any other means, the resettlement or reception of a migrant cannot be accepted. No voting rights, no integration, no municipal housing, no unjustified caress shall be granted to people who have not been invited here by Hungary. Hungary is not at war with Libya. Hungary has not intervened in Syria. Those responsible must be named, besides the United States of America, the policies of the central countries of the Union, and we cannot tolerate Hungary paying the bill that Hungary did not create. The government of Hungary could also send a message in this area, but it does not. What does he do? When István Apáti and I presented a written question asking how much it costs Hungary, the exact figures turned out. A migrant's daily care costs HUF 4300, while an unemployed person receives just over HUF 2000 per day. The government of Hungary will spend 1300 forints on the food of a migrant, less than 500 forints for a hospital inpatient. They're impertinent numbers, they're talkative numbers, they call for intervention. But Jobbik considers all of these symptoms and the treatment of symptoms, in which we can be partners, we can support certain symptomatic treatments. But the solution is only possible in two directions. One is that Hungary - by your means - stops the registration of migrants, go with God's word where they want to go, because we are now transit countries. If you keep hovering, we could be a destination by remanding. The other solution is the hermetic closure of the border, not letting any of those who arrive illegally in here, not a single person. Of course, this does not apply to Southern Hungarians or those who would like to come here with legal documents, if any, from a disconnected part. It is difficult to get to the point where we are discussing the amendments at all, because it seems that there are fundamental differences in the House that make this difficult. But Jobbik would very much like that if they were to set up transit zones on the border, they wouldn't have to be guarded by a security guard. So don't call that camp or hostel closed, which is practically open if it's not rigged enough. We also feel it is important to say that the Government of Hungary should not strike public or municipal property without consulting the stakeholders, in the same way as it does not set up a camp for Martonfa in the state area, so do not take, let's say, Ásotthalom or Morahalom, or any sports hall in the region of Röszke in order to deploy migrants for a shorter or longer term. There are, therefore, a number of solutions that need to be worked out, after which the basis for the debate will be established, or this package will be acceptable or not. But it is certain that the greatest danger is that the people of Hungary are accustomed to the presence of migrants. The threshold for stimulation is extended, and the one at Keleti Railway Station may become natural after a few weeks, after a few months. We fear such a Hungary: it should not be natural for people who are not invited here to force certain things with their own cultural characteristics and customs on the indigenous population here. Therefore, we are not willing to support any intention, integration, resettlement or voting rights of any kind, but will fight them by all means. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, another lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-09-04-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing with what my fellow Member has to say, I would like to stress, however, that the package of proposals that lies before the Parliament today can be a solution to appearances, and that it can affect real calm and security. However, in the details, I would lose a little bit of that the guarantees are not always there. I am thinking of what the Minister of Trocsányi said at the joint meeting of the National Security Committee and the Defence and Police Committee. Jobbik had a very important criterion for the camps to be closed. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has always said, from a communication point of view, that the camps should be closed in many cases, when there was a problem at the camp in Debrecen or elsewhere, Röszke. [[11.20]] Here comes your invention, the transit zone, which we do not yet know exactly where, how much and how many of these zones will be created. But Minister Trócsányi said the point in replying to a question at the ominous committee meeting when he said that it was written down at the time: the transit zone is not a custody. The transit zone is not a detention zone - that is how you rightly said it, as you have assessed the situation and the proposals submitted from a legal point of view. And this is the key: it's not guarding, so it may be appropriate for the people placed there, if they get aggressive again, or something they don't like, to go wild, as they did in Debrecen, they did in Röszke, doing it at the Eastern Railway Station or elsewhere. Then what's going to happen? This will be linked to the next item on the agenda, which we will obviously go into there, but this is a very important question whether the police or the defence will actually do what. This is a very serious responsibility, and this is the key, because it is okay to bring everyone into a transit zone with the aim that Hungary is not a gateway house, and they cannot show up in Budapest, Békéscsaba, Nagykanizsá, or anywhere else, but the big question is how far the Hungarian authorities will go, in contrast to the European Union's expectations, if necessary. This life will tell you, because obviously you can say it here, and obviously you, too, I think, are interested in going to the wall within the framework of the law, or beyond the need to guarantee the safety of Hungarian residents, Hungary, and so are we, but I am not sure that this will work in action and practice. I would also like to respond to Minister Lazarus, who, at this committee meeting and yesterday, we have seen, we have heard, made practically as sharp criticism of the European Union and European legislation as it is very difficult to debate, and he is right. When we talk about the European Union's inability to defend its own borders, let us also add that at present it does not allow the different Member States, Member States, to defend their own borders for them. That's the big problem. What's the key? The registration, Dublin III. Order, this is the key. If we say registration, this is basically synonymous with treason, because what the Germans are doing is precisely forecasting that, after a certain selection, people will be deported to Hungary if they feel like it. It is no coincidence that Greece and Italy do not register at all. If I wanted to make a joke: he might register in a demo, they would show that we do some things in accordance with our Schengen obligations, but he doesn't register. Then Austria and the Czech Republic spoke yesterday about not registering. Then why does János Lázár argue that if we do not comply with the registration obligation, we will be outside Schengen? The practice shows that if other Member States ignore this truly insane regulation, which Dublin III did. contains no sanctions on them. Italy has not been outside Schengen, Greece has not been outside Schengen, the Czechs and the Austrians are not subject to any sanctions. Then why do we want to live up to it? And you are speaking in double, saying in every word that the European Union is responsible for the resulting wave of refugees. I would add here, and Dániel Z. Carpathian underlined that the European Union did not bomb the Middle East, the European Union did not start the Arab Spring, North Africa was not made by the European Union, which is now, much more so, the United States of America, and of course, has direct and indirect allies. Then why do we want to pay the price? Or why are we letting them have us pay for it? When you make the European Union responsible in one of your sentences, and in your second sentence, referring to this responsible European Union, it is said that this treasonable regulation, which was adopted by Dublin III, is the subject of a declaration by Dublin III. It is contained, and we must abide by it. We don't have to keep it. Let us take an example of the Italians and the Greeks, who can put their national and national interests ahead of the European Union's interests, if the situation so happens - and now so in Hungary. And that's what we have to do. 'Cause it could be any border lock, and I'd like to underline it here, this whole problem doesn't have a good solution, everybody knows that. There is a bad solution and there is a catastrophic solution. We can choose what we do. By registering, we choose a catastrophic solution, because in the medium and long term, no one guarantees that Hungary will not be deported from the masses from which Germany has already selected valuable people and intellectual resources, and then the others can come back, because this cannot be spelled out nicely, but everyone knows that this will happen. We therefore say that, in such a case, our national interests in the Member States are much more important than compliance with the sanctions imposed by the European Union. That's why our responsibility is huge, and that's what we have to decide how far we're going to go here. And now we have to fight for freedom, now we have to go against the European Union. At communication level, let us constantly kick the Brussels bureaucrats, otherwise rightly, but in practice, in everyday actions, we do exactly what these people expect us to do. And what I am saying is that not only should you be hard on communication right now, and we are sure that we will support all of your actions that represent the effective protection of borders, but also in practice, what is in Hungary's interest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-09-04-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is quite obvious that the waves of a global crisis have reached Hungary. The question is, what must a responsible government do to ensure that the crisis is not escalated here in Hungary, and there is no complete chaos. I can mention five things. On the one hand, inner peace must be ensured. Two: predictability must be guaranteed, predictable rules and measures can and must be applied. Predictability is important for those affected, in this case for migrants. Three, we need to maintain order. As long as order can be ensured by a government, Hungarian citizens have nothing to fear. At the moment that a government cannot provide order because of its inadequacy or willfulness, it cannot ensure order, yes, people have something to fear. Four: predictability must be guaranteed, so that migrants arriving in Hungary should be properly informed of the consequences and consequences of the various cases. I say this in a way that obviously not only the Hungarian government has a responsibility in this regard, but also the Hungarian government has a responsibility. Finally, when a global crisis reaches a country, an important obligation of a responsible national government is to attempt to reach a national agreement. So in Hungarian: Hungary can act on the European stage and on the international stage in this situation, so that the responsible government can present a national agreement on the nature of national interests that goes beyond the current parliamentary powers. The LMP sees that none of the five principles have been fulfilled in recent weeks by the government. There should be peace and not anger - there is no explanation for the poster campaign. Here you have trombled to my fellow Member Bell's keynote speaker that you have denied that there is a crisis in the first months. Dear director of the arts. Before you stare at me, I'd like to tell you that. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] that from February to May, opposition representatives have said only one thing that the situation has not escalated. Between February and May, scenes like those that are at the Eastern Station today were not present. At the same time, you are engaged in a poster campaign that is only good for one thing to arouse your anger here in Hungary. Two, yes, let's talk about Martonfa. It is necessary to set up new reception centres, but you have designated a place, a village that is obviously completely inadequate, with the intention of political intent, and even János Harghitai admitted that the minimum consultation was not carried out. They did all this so that they could hang the Jobbik axis, where appropriate, gain extra sympathy against Jobbik. [[11.30]] Predictability: what has happened in the last few days can be called everything but predictability. None of the stakeholders, including Hungarian citizens, know when what will happen next. A responsible government can be expected to maintain order and order; what is today in Budapest and many major cities is the opposite. It is particularly important to have predictability for those affected, and therefore also for those arriving in Hungary. Those arriving in Hungary today, I would like to emphasise once again: I do not claim that this is solely the responsibility of the Hungarian Government, but the Hungarian Government does not do everything to make sure that the people arriving here know exactly what they can expect after their various actions, if they actually buy a train ticket, is the right basis for leaving Hungary, for example. The Hungarian authorities obviously did not comply with this obligation of information, thus increasing chaos and tension. Finally, yes, it would be important in such a situation when a global crisis reaches a country to try to establish a consensus, a consensus on the nature of fundamental national interests. I claim that this is not impossible, but your strategy is exactly the opposite. After at least ten months of misadventure and more idiotic ideas - you can recall drugs testing and other bullshit from the Internet station here - the Habony works have finally found the miracle drug, immigration. Unfortunately, the irresponsible Hungarian government was not interested in bringing together a national minimum among the parliamentary forces in a crisis, but was interested in maximizing all communication benefits from this story. From this point forward, you are essentially not interested in agreeing here that when fighting battles in the European Parliament, for example, in Brussels, for example, you know as much as possible political power as possible, because that is the only story - you thought until the last few days - that Fidesz can restore its popularity. At the same time, it is important to establish what is likely to be agreed. I think that it is hardly debatable that the global crisis that has reached Hungary's borders will, at some point, exceed or exceed Hungary's security and ability to hold a load. There is no debate between us that if the situation escalates beyond the Hungarian borders, Hungary can reach a point where it will not be able to handle and resolve this situation on its own. And perhaps there is also agreement between us that the roots of this crisis are global, there can be agreement that a global crisis has reached Hungary, which is partly back decades, with global imbalances, the exploitation of different nations and countries, and the consequences of climate change have already projected decades ago that Europe will be hit by a large wave of immigration. On the other hand, it must be said openly that what happened in the Mediterranean and the Middle East over the last 10 to 20 years was simply an irresponsible and adventurous policy by the Western world and, above all, the United States of America. There was military intervention in the so-called filter states, in the various countries around Europe in North Africa, in the Middle East, that there was no plan for what would happen after the destruction of the otherwise functioning dictatorial states, the consequences for Europe. It was possible to see that Europe or the European Union, as a whole, were bravely looking at the consequences of this story even in the case of events in Libya, Iraq and Syria. That is why we urge the European Central Countries to play their part in the solution to this global crisis on the one hand, those who have benefited from the exploitation of the peripheral countries over the past decades, the extremely cheap workforce, to play a greater part in resolving the situation, but it must also be stressed that this situation cannot be resolved without the increased involvement of the United States of America. Dear Parliament, What we do not agree on, however, is that there is no solution without a European solution. On the one hand, I would like to recall to you that in 2007 Viktor Orbán said that there is no way in immigration policy for an independent nation-state path, in 2011, and so already under your government, your State Secretary for Foreign Affairs recalled János Martonyi's words that the European Member States must accept those in need on the basis of a quota system - that was the government's position already during the second Orbán government. It is clear that the European solution is not just an EU solution, as it should involve associated Member States such as Serbia, Macedonia, and let us not forget Turkey, which is also a NATO Member State. If there is any point to Euroatlantic solidarity, perhaps it is to put Turkey in a position to provide a fair supply, in accordance with humanitarian principles, of the millions of people who, by the way, are waiting in Turkey for the situation in Syria to be resolved. Orbán said on 25 July that the fence will be built at the southern border of Hungary until 31 August, the other dates will be invalid. Based on the experience gained so far, the proportion of illegal border crossings is immediately reduced by one sixth to one seventh by the establishment of such border seals. I expect a large improvement from this step. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's That didn't work. You can see that. That is why let us put it on the table that the Hungarian Government today has the following option: either to pass everyone, obviously by putting the Schengen Convention in parentheses, and to assume the consequences of this, as the Chancellor said, or to keep these people here, but then, in accordance with international legal standards, they must be treated humanely until the situation is resolved. There's no other way. It is obvious that the Hungarian Prime Minister is playing with the fact that if the world press is visited by images that have been seen from the Keleti Railway Station a few days ago, for example, if he is playing to increase chaos, that this will make the migrants lose their desire to come here, then it is very easy for him to make a mistake and play with fire on the one hand. The Prime Minister's prediction didn't work once in July; the fence building didn't stop the people coming back to Hungary, but an even bigger wave came to the Hungarian borders. Two, there are certain humanitarian and humane aspects, which are also the cornerstone of the fundamental law of fidesz. Three: in the event that Hungary is able to find a solution in such a crisis that is appropriate to the interests of Hungary by pushing for a wide range of European cooperation, it is not possible to play selectively with the various European, international law rules. It is not just a question of human rights, it is also about Hungary's negotiating positions, so if Hungary breaks the Geneva Convention or other international legal standards, it also eliminates its own negotiating positions. Four: the inhumane treatment, the disorder, is not only unworthy of the people who arrive here, it violates not only their rights, but also threatens the rights of Hungarian citizens. You have tabled a bill which is inadequate to deal with this situation. There are elements that are, of course, eligible where appropriate, such as the institution of the transit zone, if the obligation to enter and the consequences of departure are recorded, such as the tightening of the facts of trafficking in human beings, which we have also proposed, where appropriate, the introduction of a crisis institution. But before the establishment of a crisis institution, let us clarify two things. Who caused this mess? This chaos was specifically caused by you. On the other hand, a constitutional solution must be found. There is a Fundamental Law that fully clarifies all extraordinary situations in the Fundamental Law, so it has its place in the Fundamental Law, not in separate laws. On the other hand, we cannot assess whether such an exceptional situation is necessary, since you have not done everything you can to increase capacity, but from 2015 to 2016 the budgetary resources of the necessary asylum institution have been reduced; not to mention that the Hungarian legal order has been full of various exceptional rules of national importance over the last five years, and there is no reason why they are not suitable for dealing with the current situation. [[11.40]] The criminal engineering we see here is, first of all, the main problem with the general criminalisation of immigrants arriving in Hungary. Among these, I also understand those who meet the conditions for asylum, which are also contrary to international legal standards, and, moreover, Hungarian justice and enforcement are not prepared to apply these rules. We are talking about facts, for example, when the criminal law standard describes trespassing through an installation, which is perfectly playable and incomprehensible, because when a person arrives in the trunk of a car, this fact no longer deals with it. Elsewhere, for example, in Section C, the requirements of normality are not met. I would also like to clarify that, contrary to what the Chancellor or the Group leader indicated yesterday, I do not know whose credit it is, but they will obviously quarrel over it, it is not true that today the authorities do not have a legitimate basis for those who illegally cross the border to be prevented from taking action against them. Here's the Alien Police Act 67. Article 204 of the Violation Act. Article 2 (1) (a) It is still possible to take action against those who cross the border illegally. And one more thing: you're basically eliminating the asylum procedures, lyeing them out. Once again, I stress that the problem with this is not just that they are violating fundamental human rights rules, although violations of international law standards are damaging Hungary's negotiating positions. Why are negotiating positions in Hungary important? Because today Italy and Greece receive ten times as much support as Hungary. How the hell are we gonna fight for more support, let's say that 60 billion goes up to 100 billion if we break international law standards on our feet? ! But one more thing: the fact is that shortening the asylum procedure is, in effect, not just an end, but a self-goal. It's just that if you give me refugee status in eight days, which you obviously don't want to give, you can't send anyone to a closed institution. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the governing parties: Time! Thank you. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the other case, the application is rejected, they do not know where to deport these people, they will be accepted, and they cannot be sent to a closed institution as well. Therefore, this proposal is completely contrary to the legislative intent, to the legislator's intention. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-04-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr.Péter Harrach has informed me in writing that he will hand 14 minutes of the remaining 16-minute time frame of the faction to the Fidesz fraction, 2 minutes to the government. [[Adam Mirkóczki: I thought it was us!]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister László Trócsányi in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-09-04-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make some comments on what has been said following the lecture by the lead speakers. Perhaps I'd like to start with the first one, with a speech from the Socialist Party's lead speaker. T/5983. Legislative bill No. 1 contains nothing concerning the amendment of individual laws in connection with the management of mass immigration, relating to the military and defence. It is another law that has not been voted on. It must therefore be brought up in a debate on another law. In this bill that I put forward, there is no such thing. I would just like to say this for the sake of fact. I would like to say to Mr Z. Kárpát that the right to vote granted to people who have been granted refugee status is clearly stated in Article 23 (3) of the Fundamental Law: whoever receives refugee rights has the right to take part in local elections, which is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] It is clear that those who receive refugee rights have the right to take part in local elections, which is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. (Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. ) Yes, the Fundamental Law provides. I would like to signal to Congressman Mirkóczi... [[Interviews from Jobbik: Mirkóczki!]] - For Congressman Mirkóczki, I apologise, Congressman, for two things. One of them is registration. I believe that if Hungary carries out the registration and does it, as I believe it is, it has fulfilled its international obligation, it can shape its negotiating positions differently if it does so. In this regard, I would like to point out that rejection, i.e. return, does not mean that it should remain here. It is about the need to consider the application and, if the application is not granted refugee status, it can be rejected. So, in fact, there is a legal procedure at the end of this, and it does not mean that everyone is automatically settled here. I am only suggesting that if Hungary were to become involved in this situation at some point, it does not mean that they are settling down here, but that they should be judged, and if they did not give it to him in one place - I must add - it is presumed that after they come from the safe country, and they should also prove that they have fled, I do not think that there is a need to scare him that everyone will remain here. I think it is important to note this, because the legislation says that the application must then be considered in this case. As far as the closed system is concerned, so detention, the transit zone - to be added - is, of course, guarded from part of it, since it is located in the Hungarian territory. In the Hungarian state area there is obviously also guarding the zone, and there will also be guarding, because obviously there must be some protection to ensure that there is no mass disturbance. So it's obviously something that needs to be resolved. For my part, I think that we should act on the basis of the law. This, which we have done, is in compliance with the Fundamental Law, does not require any amendment of the basic law. We do not wish to introduce a special legal order, we do not wish to frighten you with a state of emergency, we do not wish to frighten you with a state of emergency, so we believe that it is possible to settle this issue within the framework of the Fundamental Law, and that the Government's submission is in line with the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-38	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Minister has exceeded the framework by 1 minute and 30 seconds, and this time frame will be deducted from the Fidesz timeframe. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to speak. We now have a speech from Congresswoman Timea Szabó, who has an eight-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-04-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's parliamentary debate is the biggest scam of the year. You are acting as if there were any professional debate here, as if there were no legislation in place under which the Fidesz government would already have the opportunity to deal with and deal with the current refugee crisis. So you lie and lie and lie again and again. Unfortunately, this is not the first time we have to say this here, within the walls of Parliament. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] You are inhuman, cruel, using hundreds of thousands of unfortunate people to strengthen your own political capital. Shame on you, fellow Members of the Government. What you started as a disgusting habony giant poster campaign has now become a humanitarian disaster. Unfortunately, Lajos Kósa is not here, who has asked the opposition why we have not done anything or why we have been alarmed. Ladies and gentlemen, You're on the government, I don't know if you know that, the opposition isn't on the government. You have the right to take action, which you have not done in the last six months, even though you knew exactly what was coming. They cannot control the situation, there is increasing chaos in Hungary today on the refugee issue. In contrast to the statements made by Lajos Kósa, he drew attention to it early in the spring, and we have seen from the tables of the HAC in the last two years that the number of refugees, asylum seekers, but they have done nothing. We already said in the spring that we need to hire hundreds of new SAOs and asylum administrators and open new refugee camps. And then you beat me to it, told me that economic immigrants were coming here, not refugees. Since then, they've said they've hired 300 new SAOs, but I'm asking where they are. The day before yesterday, in the centre of the BÁH Budafoki 2 - that is, two handlers - were waiting for registration of hundreds of refugees. Are the camps opening up now? What have you been doing for the last seven to eight months? ! Where were these camps? This is a completely false argument that Martonfa, Debrecen, Békéscsaba, or just where these camps open. We've told you before that old barracks have to be opened and renovated. Plus... [[Interview from Jobbik: There is also in Debrecen!]] The camp in Debrecen used to be exactly the same, and it should not be the money of Hungarian taxpayers, but the European Union provides adequate resources for this. [[11.50]] Where are your effective measures? What did all those billions of forints go to when they were building fences? The fence stopped only one thing at the Serbian border, it was an unfortunate deer; it did not stop any refugees. What are you going to do to deal with this situation properly? ! There is a human disaster in Hungary today, placing the Hungarian citizens, the police, the border guards - which no longer exists - in the police force, the employees of the BAH are abandoned, the refugees and the Hungarian people are abandoned. You brand people with unfortunate fates and drive the Hungarians crazy. Give me a number on what happened in Bichke yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, How is it possible for hundreds of refugees to be told that the train goes to Sopron and then deliver them without a single voice in Bichke? ! As you call it, it doesn't take a living to be terrified or hysteroliberal to remember the worst emergency age, and people who haven't been political. Look at the Hungarian people's reaction to this! Don't think they're supporting you on this one. Everyone's got this filth in their stomach. What happened at the Serbian border a few days ago, when the New York Times video clearly shows that a Hungarian border guard uses gas spray to spray babies? How could that happen? How does this happen when you think they're supposed to obey the law? And what happened yesterday in Deák Square, my fellow members of the government? ! They weren't refugees, they weren't the cause of the problem. Allegedly - and everyone knows it - the police, the national security service, they've been undercover for a long time, they've been listening to the phones, they've long known what they're doing. How could it be that the police stood there unprepared, and hundreds of Hungarian citizens and tourists fled from Deák tér in fear? Plus, they're sending in little cops who also had no idea what was going on. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, To János Harghitai - Pope Francis heard the words, "I did not hear that Pope Francis distinguished between a white refugee and a non-white refugee. I would also suggest that you follow the teachings and phrases of Pope Francis, by the way, along with Peter Erdő, with whom you have become unworthy to call yourselves Christians. And, fellow Members, do you have the nerve to blame the European Union for what is happening? ! Yes, the Dublin system is defective, we need to review the Dublin system, but why are they standing up from the negotiating table at the first minute, so why don't you sit down? Why do they commit to branding Hungarian people by making Hungary a small, pathetic stowaway in the European Union? We must not only enjoy the benefits of the European Union, but also share them when it comes to common burdens, and we must find solutions to them together. Today's bill is a diversion, it will be useless, and contrary to Minister László Trócsányi's words, it is a constitutional violation of that provision. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You know better than that!]] to bring the soldiers in armed within the borders of the country. This is a pretense measure, just as the fence, the soldiers will not stop refugees, because the refugee problem cannot be solved now, but can only be dealt with. You want to use it later for internal political reasons so that you can use the military against protesters later. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Nonsense! That's what the bellman said!]] On behalf of PM, I submitted a proposal for a decision yesterday [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Mr President!]] in which we demand the following. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The government should take all necessary steps to ensure that they participate together with the European Union, the United Nations and NATO, to help eliminate the war situation in Syria, because the wave of refugees will only stop if we stop the chaos that is now in the Middle East and we are involved in this. Abolish the humanitarian disaster situation without delay and ensure adequate care for refugees to this end. This should not be passed on to civilians and volunteer helpers, to whom we pay my deep respect, for what they have done for you in the last few weeks has been with the hat. Ensure that asylum procedures are out of order and do not apply different legal tricks by taking one to two to three days or one week. Use by the European Union [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] offered technical assistance for the evaluation of asylum and returned to the negotiating table in Brussels...
u2015-09-04-40	Congressman, ma'am, thank you very much. Your time limit is up.
u2015-09-04-41	...and together find a solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-04-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group.
u2015-09-04-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out once again that, while you think that this problem is being dealt with in the amendment of the asylum law, this amendment is actually a huge self-goal. Why am I saying this? Because the current rules state that, if a person has already been registered, the asylum application is being assessed, it may be kept in a closed institution in certain cases, and this also complies with the EU Directive, pending the examination of the asylum application. At the same time, if the asylum application has been assessed by someone - it is evident that anyone who has been granted refugee status is a refugee - it cannot be kept in a closed camp. Secondly, if the asylum application is refused, but Hungary has no opportunity to expel it, it cannot physically implement it, because there is no state to which it can refuse it, then the person will be granted the status of being accepted in accordance with international law; quite simply because, for example, Serbia will not accept it back. Those who are granted admission status cannot also be kept in a closed institution. So the situation is that, while the asylum procedure is being empty, it is not possible to assess these requests in substance, which goes against the different international standards that apply to Hungary, the fact is that they are creating a legal environment that is exactly not in line with the political goal that you want, so they can keep even fewer people with an uncertain status in a closed institution. So that's why we said yesterday that there's a crisis to be dealt with, but the elected [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] - for example, procedural - solutions are perfectly inadequate to deal with this. Thank you.
u2015-09-04-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Member János Volner, Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-04-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the gap between government communication and reality. The government is talking about building a fence this summer to protect the country from the Third World's flood. On the other hand, TV recordings that clearly demonstrate that there are gates on this fence in order to allow immigrants to enter Hungary without obstacles. This is a step, fellow Members, by which soldiers and policemen have been classified as uniform hostesses by the government, humiliated by the people who have sworn to protect this country, because they would not have the task of smiling politely by the fence and showing where the gate is, where to enter this country. The task of these people would already be to protect Hungary from the uncontrolled, uncontrolled state, the flood that comes into this country; this is not what is happening. What do we see in the labour market? The Minister of National Economy's decree for third-country nationals in summer maximizes the number of people who can be employed in 59 thousand people. This happens when the government does not allow men to retire after four decades of hard work, with reference to the fact that the country does not have money for this, to remain in the labour market, while statistical data show that only 4 out of 10 people in the age group between 55 and 64 have jobs. And on the other hand, you want to employ 59 thousand third-country nationals in Hungary. This shame and this disgrace, dear members of the government. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. István Szilárd Németh: You're a liar!]] [[12.00]]
u2015-09-04-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no further two-minute speeches have been made, the speeches will now be held by the Members at the expense of the remaining time frame. First, the Members who have applied in writing will take part in the speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Group Fidesz.
u2015-09-04-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, I would like to respond to two very important thoughts. One is supportive and consensual, the other is on the contrary. Several of the previous speakers highlighted the need for a common European policy and European action, most recently in the keynote speech by András Schiffer. I agree with that myself, and our faction fully agrees. On the other hand, the sentences, the ideas that almost all the key speakers in the opposition have stressed, and the fact that Fidesz is merely communicating and acting on all kinds of PR measures in immigration matters, I would like to reject them to the farthest and to a hundred percent. If that were the case... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We need facts!]] If that were the case, we would not have acted in many areas already. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Where? Where?]] Remember, from the very beginning, people were led there by the Ministry of the Interior. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You started a national consultation!]] To protect the border with human strength. Then we set up the temporary - I stress: temporary, we hope it will not always be necessary - a border lock. In addition - you were here in Parliament - we accelerated asylum procedures with legal provisions at the beginning of the summer. This was a very important step to address the situation. And if everyone has now read the proposal to amend today's 13 laws, then they have seen that we will now take steps to count on your contribution and your vote in favour. With these, I think we can take significant steps to address the problem for the benefit of Hungarians living here, people living in Hungary, but also to act on the rights of refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, To address today's mass migration - I think we can all agree on this, or at least we should agree on this - three things are absolutely necessary; as we have already talked about, a common European immigration policy, decisive action, but above all, at the place where the problem arises, to eliminate the causes of migration as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, In these questions, I think you can't be wrong. You can't say that instead of the problem, we have fake problems. Let us recall when we held a political debate on immigration more than six months ago, then and ever since, some left-wing politicians and parties are of the opinion that we are not facing a real problem, but we are talking about a fake problem. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're a liar!]] Gergely Bárándy denied that at yesterday's legislative committee meeting, said that he did not say that, but I would like to remind his fellow party members of his statement on June 18th, which was about two months ago, who spoke in the press about literally a false problem. So there hasn't been a change in the attitude of a few left-wing politicians, and he's talking about a fake problem. I don't think we can stick our heads in the sand. Please don't do this, either, left-wing politicians. We must call the problems a name, and then, together with their management, we must act together without delay, we Members of Parliament here in Hungary, regardless of party standing, we, the European Union Member States, but the European Union as a whole. We, along the Schengen borders, have the very first task, the European Union's obligation to determine who is the real political persecuted, the political refugee and to put them under a completely different procedure, and who are economic immigrants who come to Hungary in the hope of a better livelihood or go on to the other countries of the European Union. However, in addition to all this, we have a fundamental question for all Hungarians. Do we all want and can we receive and support hundreds of thousands of economic immigrants? And all of this, i.e. all ten million Hungarians, share the same burden. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Not everyone was worried!]] This is not a question we politicians wanted to decide on our own. We asked the Hungarian people about this. [[Dr. András Schiffer: National consultation! Lajos Korózs: Congratulations!]] Their opinion obliges not only us pro-government politicians, but also everyone in the Hungarian Parliament. And their opinion was that people want protection. [[Szabó Timea: Then protect them!]] People want decisive action and, above all, want security. They expect us to protect Hungary's borders, protect Europe's borders, and protect Hungarian people, in accordance with our domestic and international legal obligations. Protect people from lawlessness, organised crime, smugglers, terrorists that may infiltrate refugees, immigrants, or all those who benefit from the embarrassing of vulnerable people. That is what we expect of the European Union. Instead of breaking up, what do we expect? Instead of a single policy, instead of a fakehumanum, an honest speech, a firm action instead of a testament, and a responsible action instead of pointing at each other. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This is what we expect from our fellow left-wing politicians, the left-wing parties. This is what we expect not only from the Fidesz-KDNP faction, but also from the majority of Hungarians. Unfortunately, what we see today is that the European Union has not been able to pursue a common immigration policy, and so far it has not been able to defend its borders. It was also difficult for him to distinguish for a long time the arrival of economic immigrants and political refugees in the country. It is clear that so far, he has not been able to stop the smuggling of people, which is clearly a primary hit on us, so this European Union inertia hits us, Hungarians, in the first place. In this situation, we Hungarians must defend our own borders, the Hungarian people and the borders of Europe because of the Schengen borders. The European Union must also recognise this. We are, by the way, almost the only country in Europe where the international obligations in force are respected. We should take into account the rights of those who come to us. But I ask you, why shouldn't we consider the rights of the people here? The rights of the Hungarian people living here? ! People and children who want to get to their jobs and schools, who want to travel safely and safely and live in this country. Tens of thousands of people commute from my constituency, from the eastern part of Budapest, from Rákosmenta and Kőbány every day through the Keleti railway station to the city centre. [[12.10]] Among them are many schoolchildren, thousands of schoolchildren. They're scared. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP. Ágnes Kunhalmi: What are migrants doing in Budapest?]] Of course, it will take its own measures; we are now in the Hungarian Parliament, we are discussing the 13 laws that have just been tabled, and we are confident that we can convince each other that the 13 legislative proposals may be adopted by consensus. In any case, everyone has a responsibility. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's for sure!]] We all have a responsibility to pass 13 legislative proposals today, soon, in a few ten minutes or hours, and the capital has a responsibility to do so. We are not here at the Metropolitan Assembly, but here in Parliament, please discuss these 13 legislative proposals. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not what you're talking about.]] And before our opposition fellow Members accuse those people of intolerance, those Hungarian people who may be afraid to let their children go to school, either in the situation along the borders or in Budapest, let us note that migrants have come to our country illegally and uncontrolled, almost without exception. The border crossing points are still open. They're open in front of them. I wonder why they don't come in there. We Hungarians come in through the door - enter there! The border crossings are the doors of the country. I would like to ask my fellow Members to call the problems by their names. The problems are very important before we solve them and seek political responsibility to resolve those who, in this way, are on the government side, who are acting in opposition. Indeed, there is a need not only to talk but also to act. One of the most important actions here today, when discussing this agenda, is to press a yes vote at the end of the debate, in addition to expressing everyone's opinion. I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to reconsider their responsibility. Let us be partners in protecting the interests of the majority of Hungary living here. The bill we are discussing now serves this purpose. Those voting against today's bill vote against the interests of Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Bárándy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-09-04-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will respond on several points to the words of Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, but allow me one sentence, Madam President. You should ask your government what migrants are looking for in Budapest, because they should not have been in Budapest, they should not have been here; they are probably here to present this kind of chaos to the two million people in Budapest. That is the only reason for this, Madam honourable Member, so you should take note of what you are doing here on your own government and on the authorities. Which is a substantial part of the statement. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Who has mentioned it so far has only dealt with certain legal concerns in hits. I am going to start with this, because if we are discussing a bill here before Parliament, it is worth considering the constitutional aspects of the parliament, in addition to analysing the very justified social impact and the question of effectiveness. The bill before us now, even my fellow Members with fidesz, does not deny it, restricts fundamental rights. There is only one possibility for the government to limit or suspend fundamental rights: if it introduces a special legal order, if it is a special legal order. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Come on!]] In order to do this, we also need a fundamental legal mandate, such as the Disaster Protection Act. Mr State Secretary, I know your argument system, I'll tell you mine, you obviously have yours; quite a lot of people share my position on this issue. Pretty much nobody outside the government shares yours. If you wanted to handle this situation, you would have had two options. One is that the disaster protection law is based and, where appropriate, the issue of mass migration is classified as an emergency of other origin, and it would obviously have been worth including it in the disaster protection law by a two-thirds majority. The B-version, which we consider to be more effective, and in this respect even the Jobbik's position is in line with our opinion, is that it is necessary to amend the basic law in order to introduce such measures. You didn't choose this. You have chosen to avoid the two-thirds obligation that the voters have withdrawn from you, a wooden iron circle, a new concept instead of an emergency, and this is a crisis. And it was thought that if the emergency was to be changed to a crisis, it would be removed from the two-thirds regulatory issue. No, my fellow Members. In addition, they obviously know the law that the more are in it, but the fewer are not in it. If, in the case of a special legal order, the Constitution, their Fundamental Law, their Fundamental Law which they have adopted for a maximum of 15 days, even together with a fundamental law, allows the special legal order and makes the extension of it dependent on the decision of the Parliament, then tell us how you imagine that a half law will introduce a rule that this, pardon, not an emergency, but a crisis - which, I say again, is the same as the emergency, only under a different name - can take six months instead of 15 days. Moreover, after 6 months, it is enough for the government to extend this for another 6 months and again for 6 months, that is to say, to live forever, while the government's mandate lasts, to sustain this crisis, without the Parliament otherwise giving its blessing. Ladies and gentlemen, It's such a rough way around constitutional rules, which, I think, is clearly against the law for everyone. You know very well, but there was a reason why they should not initiate a fundamental amendment to this matter. There are two problems with this, honourable Members. One is - I would also respond to Congresswoman Mónika Duna - why we do not take into account the Hungarian people who live here; I ask the same question: why are they not taken into account when you accept it? These laws are about the Hungarian people and the weakening of the rights of Hungarian people on the pretext of immigration. Of course, they project a little bit ahead of the regulation governed by László Kövér, to which they bring the country closer. Of course, as we have been accustomed to you in five years, the democratic institutional system will be further weakened, refocused, and the relations between the state and its citizens will once again be moved to the benefit of the state, as they have done with every measure of the five years, along with a good paternalist approach to state. This is one of the problems, because on the basis of the rules, the police and the military will be able to kick the door, not to migrants, but to Hungarian people, without, let's say, allowing it to do so, for a hypothetical reason that there is a migrant. Then it's either there or there isn't. The other problem with this, my fellow Members, is that, and that is the bigger problem, that this legal solution is the most precious proof of one thing: the only thing that is important to you is that Fidesz is the only one that can deliver the solution, because if that is not the case, you would not be able to confront each other - how do you put it? - the pro-immigration and anti-immigration people. Then, if you had attempted a consensus proposal, how could you represent this policy, this primitive eye adjustment you've been pursuing for five years? [[12.20]] Unfortunately, Fidesz has not only now, but also at other times, sought to reach a national consensus on important matters. For five years, the main element of their politics is that they are a scapegoat, and they label their political opponents on the side of designated scapegoats, while you are on the side of the Hungarian people. Just remember how it was. Such was the foreign capital or the banks, or even the utility companies. You have always been on the side of the Hungarian people, and interestingly, all the opposition parties are always on the side of the capital, banks and utilities. Well, it's no different now, you're on the side of the Hungarian people, everyone else is on the side of the migrants. This is simply a kindergarten, primitive rhetoric, which, unfortunately, with your media machine, some people are able to illuminate and believe. Fidesz now seeks to brand the left by standing on the side of immigrants against the Hungarian people and does not propose a solution. Like I said, with your media overweight, they can make a lot of people believe that. There's a weakness in rhetoric, though, is that it's a lie. Perhaps you do not assume that there is a sane person who believes that it would not be good if the masses of migrants did not come to Hungary or to the European Union. There is no such sane person in Hungary or in the parliamentary horseshoe. Everyone wants to get along in their own country. And perhaps not even that there is a Member who does not think that mass migration should be managed, and that there should be a regulated framework. I don't think they'll find a sane person who wants to deny it. My fellow bellman has given us quite a detailed description of the concrete proposals that we have made. You spent 30 billion forints on your hate campaign, your completely unnecessary national consultation, and a fence under which you can easily hide anyone, since you didn't set any other conditions for the fence, but this was predictable and imputable. You have neither taken the trouble nor given us the opportunity to discuss here in Parliament the proposal which contains part of your current proposal. We did not just put it on the table, honourable Members, but before the summer, but they were not willing to put it on the agenda. And fellow Members, why? Because it is impossible for the opposition to provide a good solution, because then this kind of opposition will no longer appear to be successful. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, but also Mr Schiffer, Mr Group leader, has also referred to this, that on this subject, which you may not think is very important today in Hungary, and we do not believe that there has been any five-party negotiations. How is that possible? The opposition has never been invited to a single forum to express its views. If he had brought it to Parliament, it would have been removed from the agenda, there would have been no vote to discuss it here. In other words, you do not contribute to bringing the opposition's arguments to you, either informally or formally, and we can discuss them either informally or formally. And why not? That's because then you wouldn't be able to do this stupid confrontation that you're doing. I don't know how long it's been since we've been treating you like a fake problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I read it on the TAB, and I'm doing it now. Details from the Parliamentary Protocol:....thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that, in my view, migration is a real problem in the European Union, and so it is a real problem in Hungary. If you think otherwise, you're wrong. It's right here on the record, that's what I said months ago. It's written right here! I think, fellow Members, that anyone who says otherwise is simply lying. This is the official position of the Hungarian Socialist Party, which I can safely say to you. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] I would also like to make it clear that we are not voting for your proposal, which is otherwise considered inappropriate for us, because we will not, does not mean that we do not want to find a solution to this problem. I would like to offer you with great respect, as my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, to sit down, because we are open to a fundamental amendment on this subject. I think that this intention cannot be made clearer. Of course, there is, of course, a border, and I would like to state that here in Parliament. If we go to what Jobbik says, namely that migrant men, women, children can be shot with water cannons, rubber bullets or tear gas, we never want to give you permission to do that. If that's the point, then we're not partners in this. But in any other way that leads us forward, which means that the migrant issue is properly addressed, we are partners. I would like to mention that there is also a humanitarian aspect to this matter. This is that if the migrants are already here - it would be better if they were not here, but they are here - then they should be provided with a decent care. I would like to say very strongly to you that it is not the party or NGO that advocates immigration, which is engaged in a charitable activity, but is fulfilling its basic human duty. It would be nice for the government to consider that. I would like to thank you all with respect for this activity, which is partly done in place of the government. It is not mass migration that is promoted by those who give food and drink to refugees, even if government parties want to set it that way. Who's funding this? - I can hear it from the Jobbik benches. For example, in our party headquarters, they voluntarily brought clothes, food, and drinks to refugees, and those who wish to do so are welcome. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Take him out to Transcarpathia!]] Once again, this is not for immigration, it is simply for the humane. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, first of all, my fellow members of the Government, that the aim should not be to increase their popularity when they take a stand on migration and are determined to act. There are two options: either the government solves the situation on its own terms, but in this case, do not hystericalize that the opposition does not vote for everything in a slavish way, or initiate negotiations with the opposition that is open to it, and find a common solution to the problem. Since the former did not work, i.e. they were unable to achieve any tangible results from themselves in eight months, I suggest that they consider the second version. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-04-50	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. The next speaker is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-04-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is something very symbolic about the fact that in the square named after Gábor Baross, the Iron Minister, there is now an Őscaus in front of the East, and we can see apocalyptic images if we go outside and look around. Yes, because while the Iron Minister is famous for having truly iron willed his ideas, his late successors, the politicians currently in the position of decision, are famous for their powerlessness, their confusion, their semi-solutions, and conflicting decisions. Of course, not only the picture in Budapest is so tragic and chaotic, but we can hear stories from the entire territory of Hungary about everyday atrocities, virtually about the impossibility of train transport. While you are talking about where transit zones should be established, in fact, all of Hungary has become a large transit zone with Röszke-Budapest-Vienna axis. Just now, when I was preparing for my lecture or speech, I heard the story that took place yesterday on a bus from Békéscsaba that carried migrants to Debrecen. The migrants practically took the bus apart until they got there, smashed the back door. The security guard travelling with them, who had only one piece of OKJ paper, could do nothing, but of course and obviously could not because, at the most, he feared for his life - and rightly so - against the raging mob, the fifty migrants. [[12.30]] So what characterizes the government's work in migrant affairs? Let us summarize: briefly the double speech we are talking about. I am very pleased that we now have the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, who personally notes the Ministerial Communication that 59 thousand migrants will be allowed to be employed in Hungary in 2015. So, only for the next four months, what we have ahead of us, 59 thousand migrants are being hired by the government. Surely, Minister of State, we have heard in the press that you have a lot of work, and you have no time to deal with various issues that move public life, you are not aware of the poster campaign that your own government has made recently, which, for example, has said, "If you come to Hungary, you cannot take away the work of Hungarians!" You do not wish to work for Hungarians, and you want to provide jobs for thousands of migrants. He certainly did not have time to listen to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech in Transylvania, in which he summarized the results of the national consultation, which said that the Hungarians decided and did not want illegal migrants in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that your decision, the Ministerial Communication, is going against these very things. Yes, the Hungarian government is giving a double speech on migrant matters. The other thing that supports this is a certain long-term public employment contract, which the mayor of all 3,200 Hungarian settlements will now have to conclude with the Ministry of the Interior if he thinks in public employment - so once again: I am talking about a long-term public employment contract, which may be about 12 months - which means that, yes, migrants will be required to be employed in all districts. What does that mean, translated into Hungarian? For example, the 59 thousand migrants whom Tállai has decided to apply to all settlements in the framework of public employment, whether they like it or not, because otherwise the Minister of the Interior will not contribute to the support. Yes, the saddest thing is that on this basis we have to say that there will be a refugee camp in every district, probably, and that you will add the temporary signal to these refugee camps every time, which is ultimately tragic in addition to this 12-month stay. Minister Trocsányi has just said that those who do not have the right to request will be expelled from Hungary, those migrants. Really, is this procedure gonna take 12 months? Why are those who arrive here illegally to Hungary not expelled with immediate effect? So, the temporary word, the temporary sign, is the most blood-creeping historical parallels in people, which is why there is a wave of protests all over Hungary against the deployment of refugee camps, such as now in Martonfa. Because they know exactly that it is the longest in Hungary that they put the temporary sign in front of it. And to speak of a specific point in the bill before us: it is quite clear that you want to give yourself answers to chaotic situations, the chaotic state, which, in a sense, make this chaos worse, but further, increase it. This is, for example, a legal place giving or providing a basis for extraordinary arbitrary behaviour, which means that the assets of municipalities can be seized from one moment to the next, movable or immovable property, practically without the local community having anything to do with it. In these areas, I am talking about real estate; they will then suspend the various municipal regulations relating to it, such as the local construction regulations, and you will provide for them. In Hungarian, against the citizens of Hungary... - the Hungarians pay for your faulty decisions, i.e. they take away the work of the Hungarians and the property of the nation. That's what we're protesting. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next announced speaker was Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-09-04-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP is the party that, at the time of the parliamentary hearing, wishes to draw attention to the global aspects of the issue and their context; these matters are now reinforcing each other and, unfortunately, they are becoming increasingly unmanageable in this respect. In fact, there have not been as many refugees in Europe since World War II as there are today. Understanding and addressing the refugee crisis is a major challenge for Europe's countries and its inhabitants. It is particularly difficult to understand and deal with the refugee problem that seven years of recession and austerity, which have driven the connective tissues of European societies, make it particularly difficult. The emergence of refugees is yet another ordeal from the economic crisis to just emerging countries. The flow of refugees to Europe is proof that the homelands of refugees and immigrants are not safe, that more and more people are unable to live in their homes. The reasons are complex. But if we do not explore and treat it, we cannot expect that the supply of refugee flows will decrease over time. We therefore need to deal with this at the same time as trying to cope with the flood of refugees. The fact that food is not produced in growing areas, and water scarcity in growing areas, is becoming increasingly important among the causes of environmental degradation. This is compounded by climate change, extreme weather damage. These are closely linked to security policy reasons. I'd like to make an example of that. The extreme drought linked to climate change in Nigeria has contributed to the rise of the Boko Haram terror group, which has re-introduced slavery in some parts of the country. In Syria, the increase in bad crops and food prices has led to a lack of peace, which has played a major role in the development of civil war. The four-year Syrian crisis has so far killed 150,000 people. Of course, we do not claim that it is because of ecological problems and climate change alone that the migration wave has started, but that in countries where the rise in drought makes it less and less possible to provide for a drastically growing population, there is a greater risk of conflict. Most refugees come from Syria this year and belong to one of the most vulnerable regions in the Middle East. Let us not believe that only the green parties believe that climate change will lead to a disruption of international stability. According to a previous study by the U.S. Navy, due to increasingly extreme weather conditions, some 200 million people want to leave their homes in the not-too-distant future. According to the United States, it is in the interest of national security to consider the problems caused by climate change in the US military strategy. It is not by accident that the US President and the German Chancellor have made the conclusion of a global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions a priority for their governance accordingly. Of course, the current wave of refugees cannot be separated from the foreign policy of large states such as the United States or Britain. The American Iraqi intervention 12 years ago contributed greatly to the collapse of the Iraqi state leading to the rise of the Islamic State. Such large states, and in particular the United States which has started more wars in recent decades, must take greater responsibility and provide more resources for the reception of refugees. The already shaken area is also plagued by the killing rivalry of Shiite Iran and Sunni Saudi Arabia. This has a decisive impact on the internal relations of states such as Yemen and Lebanon. There is virtually no country in the region whose internal policy is not affected by this hostility. Chaos only escalates after the American and British war against Libya. What are the lessons? The problem and the solution have gone beyond the borders of a country. The solution, both to eliminate the causes and to resolve the situation that has arisen, both the European Union and the United States must have a different approach to the issue. The European Union must strengthen the institutional system of its common foreign policy and actively contribute to the stabilisation and recovery of states and the region. [[12.40]] All other immediate measures are a temporary solution, since the flow of refugees will not end. The world must not forget its regions that have become unlivable because of the changed climate and the raging violence. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-04-54	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-04-55	Who's responsible for the fence failure? Dear Lords of the Minister, If you are already present, at least answer this one question, tell us who is responsible for this fence and its failure against the government that promised a solution by the end of August. Immigrants do better - we can now say this, or even say that government promises are no more than fenced peas, because not only can you climb over this fence, above it, but gates have been built. Gates with which the police, and not God, and then the military, humiliatingly, provide access as uniformed receptionists to a kind of decorative guard, bringing to us those invisible migrants that have not been mentioned today, I am thinking of Ebola, dysentery, AIDS, pulmonary disease, about which our excellent politicians, Lajos Rig and László Lukács [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] he has repeatedly expressed his views and reservations about the health disaster that is threatening our country, which we are facing. On the other hand, the government seems to be pursuing a policy of resettlement, which is why it has opened up the family support system for them, so it has appointed schools for childhood migrants, which is why they are building resettlement camps from Martonfa, who knows how many other places in the country. It seems that here in the capital, too, because they have allowed these migrants who are fighting diseases with themselves to the heart of the country. They won't allow it to go on, which is absolutely amazing, so we would like to ask for the government's responsibility to defend Hungary. Fidesz seems unable to do so, so Jobbik, as a constructive opposition, wants to help us protect our borders with the defence. But what is most unacceptable is that these immigrants are allowed in at the same time and are not allowed to go on from here, which is also causing very serious national economy problems. That is why we ask that Jobbik's proposals be adopted and that the tsunami of immigrants be finally blocked. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-56	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, LMP.
u2015-09-04-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond briefly to Mrs Mónika Dunai in a few sentences. First of all, we agree, of course, that the causes of migration must be eliminated. Yes, all sound political forces are obviously interested in allowing everyone on this planet to live a decent life where they are born. However, we also need to see that Hungary is obviously not able to resolve this alone. Not only do we need European cooperation, it is a joyful news from a few hours ago that it seems that both the United States and NATO may have reached the threshold of stimulus that is currently taking place in Europe. She says, Congresswoman, that economic immigrants and refugees should be distinguished. We agree on that perfectly. How do you intend to distinguish an economic immigrant from a refugee during an eight-day asylum procedure? He was talking about illegal border crossings. The fact is that, under international law, anyone who comes in or knocks on a state border and immediately announces his asylum application cannot be considered unlawful under the rules of international law. I would ask you very nicely that, since you are right that there are asylum seekers, refugees and economic immigrants in this set, we treat these people with due respect. Among these people, there are a large crowd of people who are really persecuted by war, going through cataclysms, which, by the way, our own elites have passed through here in the Carpathian Basin. For this reason, I would ask that not only in government propaganda, but also in good texts, I think it would be appropriate to consider those who are otherwise forced to go to Europe from a war area as a human being. She says, Congresswoman, that the causes of migration must be eliminated. That's right! We also have to face the strange fact that the deep causes of mass immigration to Hungary or Europe and emigration from the end, i.e. Eastern Europe, are the same. We are talking about the same global phenomenon. As long as there is a two-speed Europe, until there is an attempt to reduce global imbalances, these processes will only get worse. You blame us for talking about communication tricks. Madam Congresswoman, I would like to support our statement with the following. On the one hand, in February, the Prime Minister called - quite rightly - a five-party consultation. It has already been found here that you have dealt with the fact that there will be a crisis on the Hungarian border, and this has been demonstrated by the rather vile poster campaign. If this is the case, if you had the information you needed, why didn't you start the necessary legislative amendments in the spring? Two: now suddenly they have come to their senses, and they want these laws to be passed by way of legislation. The only reason for this was that responsibility for the situation of chaos was also being spread out to opposition parties. Three, why do we claim that you are using the entire immigration crisis as a communication product? Because, by the way, the budget presented in the spring 2016 budget would not have been reduced, therefore, the budget of the Office of Nationality would not have been reduced. Finally, if you were not the first to create chaos, to seek conflict, and not to compete between parties, you would not have chosen Martonfa, a settlement of 200 people in Baranya, for the first time, while there is a settlement in Baranya that indicated its intention to host such a refugee camp. I would also like to say that, while the Congresswoman is trying to fire back at the opposition representatives by saying that we have not acknowledged that this is the problem: no, Congresswoman, back off, the problem has been recognised. All we've said is that on February's debate day, there's no crisis at the moment, just like it wasn't this spring. That is why we are saying, and our position is coherent here, that if we had used the spring months to have a national agreement, that if and if Hungary faced this global crisis, what should be done, what position should we take in Brussels or Washington, then we would be ahead. If we had used these months to strengthen asylum capacities, including justice, we would have been ahead. If these months had been used to prepare the necessary legislative amendments instead of the sleazy poster campaign, we would have been ahead. Congresswoman, may I just say that we have managed to come here with unconstitutional proposals. I would like to point out that what the Minister replied an hour ago was so good that, in his view, it is constitutional, it does not hold up. There is a Fundamental Law in force, the chapter on the special legal order contains exhaustively the cases in which exceptional rules can be applied in general in the Hungarian legal order. In Hungarian, which is not included in the Basic Law in the chapter on the special legal order, such an extraordinary situation cannot be created in a law. What you are about to adopt here is a special legal order, because in an immigration emergency - in vain, Mr Secretary of State is shaking his head - exceptional rules can be applied in different areas of law, so this solution is against the law. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-04-58	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-09-04-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to address the left-wing representatives with blinds, the anti-national liberal nano-parties and the still fine-tuned Fidesz Members. The events of the last two months are summarised as to what scandalous cases are associated with illegal immigrants. Hundreds of people on the road to Samson in Debrecen, the constant tension at the Middle East station, the destruction and destruction of the peaceful Csaba bus. Then I don't know if they saw the alphahir.hu video of what they were doing at the Bicske train station yesterday, the police brought the mineral water to them, the various sandwiches, fruits, supplies for children, and the grown men threw them away, they took the drinking water from their own children, and they bought the most valuable food. [[12.50]] The latest news from fifty minutes ago is the news of index.hu: at half past twelve, hundreds of migrants broke out of the Röszke hangar, headed for the highway. The police were helpless, like the bad football player, watching the events at close range, watching the game, and then pulling themselves together with bulletproof breasts and shields, trying to get illegal immigrants back. This is, therefore, the thanks that Hungary provides for them. Ladies and Gentlemen, If necessary, this is why we need bottled tear gas, tear gas grenades, rubber bullets and water cannons to use them not only against Hungarian patriots, but also against immigrant criminals in Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai's intervention: in 2006 as well...]] Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-60	The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2015-09-04-61	Mr President, Dear House, András Schiffer wasn't the only one who said that during the day that he should be treated as a human being, if I quote correctly, the arrivals and give them respect. Indeed, we bettermen do not dispute anyone's right to have the minimum and necessary assistance if he really is fleeing from a real threat. But if we are talking about a humanitarian disaster, then the most important thing is to eliminate the humanitarian disaster affecting the indigenous Hungarian population here in the region of Röszke, Asotthalom, Morahalom. [[Moraj from the ranks of the independent congressmen.]] Even if the Balliberians are making noise behind me, the most important thing for us will be the Hungarian people, so that we can eliminate the public health disaster in the vicinity of the Keleti Railway Station. We are representatives sworn to Hungary, especially those who took such an oath in the Holy Crown, either in public or in private. We must say that we have sworn to protect Hungary's population from the incredible emergency that is emerging. No one, but all Hungarian citizens. The situation of having a legal refugee hostel throughout our country must therefore be lifted. Therefore, on Saturday, Jobbik will hold a demonstration before the BM, with the participation of Gábor Vona in Széchenyi Square, where he is very fond of anyone who feels responsible for his own country, and if he thinks of human rights, he would like to break a spear for the human rights of the Hungarian people, and to stand up to the fact that this amazing disaster, which has arisen as a result of government and international tumbling, will be eliminated, and finally, as a man, to enter the stage of action that has unfortunately been spoken of here. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-62	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State for Home Affairs, for two minutes.
u2015-09-04-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to Mr István Apáti's speech when he made the Hungarian police look negative or presented it as if they would not take action in connection with the events in Röszke. [[János Volner: Only the government!]] I would like to say in this House to the Member and to the public of Parliament [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to the public that the Hungarian police are doing their best to maintain order and public security in Röszkén and in all the settlements of the country. It should be stated that, as I hope for everyone in this debate, this situation today was not a normal situation. However, the Hungarian police forces, the Hungarian police, maintain order, so in Röszkén, where measures have been taken, the police have been confirmed, and measures have been taken to create the outbursts, but they have also taken action to divert the traffic on the M5 motorway, to ensure the safety of transport. Ladies and gentlemen, This case, mentioned by the Member in his speech, also points out the importance of adopting this law by Parliament and then adopting the bill to be discussed afterwards. After all, protection of the threefold, i.e. physical protection, temporary safety closure, legal protection and lively reinforcement are all necessary to protect the interests of Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people at every moment, at every location in the country, and to fulfil our EU obligations. I therefore ask the Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-04-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to comment in two minutes to Mr András Schiffer, LMP.
u2015-09-04-65	Dear Secretary of State, Of course, the police forces acting should be respected for what they have done in Budapest in the last few weeks. I would like to reply to Mr Z. Mr Carpathian that he will not be challenged by those who have really fled, human rights. That's right, it just takes a fair asylum procedure. The other thing that Mr Apáti suggested: imagine, I saw this video of alphahir.hu, and the fact is that I think that the people who did these actions, which you mentioned, are among many who are seriously traumatized people because they come from zones. These situations arise because the Hungarian government is acting in a mess. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That's why I said we have to create predictable relationships...
u2015-09-04-66	Thank you very much.
u2015-09-04-67	... all Hungarian citizens [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] for immigrants. [[Constant noise, interruptions.]]
u2015-09-04-68	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to make a very short comment on Jobbik's part, Mr János Volner.
u2015-09-04-69	Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you not to twist our words. We blame the government for the humiliation of soldiers and police officers by not giving them parliamentary authority and applying them as uniform hostesses along the gates open on the fence. That's why you're to blame, not the uniformed staff. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-70	Thank you very much. In addition, you will have the opportunity to comment within two minutes for Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2015-09-04-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Congressman Volner, The bill now submitted and the subsequent bill to be discussed will provide the tools for the determining police and defence forces to act in the interests of Hungary. I therefore call for these proposals to be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-04-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Tuzson Bence, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2015-09-04-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Clearly, we disagree on fundamental issues. Let me get this straight. The issue of immigration, the issue of economic immigration, is not good. We don't want that. This is what the current proposals serve. Dear Socialist colleagues, You can't say anything that's completely out of line with what they said a few months ago. On 18 June, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi said that she used a powerful expression, saying that immigration was a false problem created by Fidesz. Gergely Bárándy's contribution should also be judged in this context. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] because, my dear fellow Member, these words have been said, and compared to that, you are asking what immigrants are doing in Budapest right now. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What are they doing in Budapest? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What are you looking for?]] You're talking about constitutional amendment, you're trying to confuse the different legal systems with each other. This is certainly a mistake, and you are wrong on this issue - I hope you will see it. I would like to ask the good fellow Members to be consistent, not to run after events, but to be consistent. Recently, they were talking about closed camps in Hungary. [[A statement from Jobbik: We are talking about it now!]] Now they're telling us not to register people, but to let them go wherever they want. These two things are in conflict. You don't have to run after the events. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We have to vote for our proposals! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. On behalf of the authors, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond within a ten-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-04-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to respond to the single speaker of the debate, the lead speaker of the MSZP, because the only thing he has revealed is that they have a problem with the government, not with immigrants. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, What is the message of this law? They know the phenomenon that sometimes very complicated rules are formulated in simple messages, simple sentences, signposts, such as traffic signs. Well, dear fellow Members, the message of this law is that if you want to come to Hungary, knock on the door. All we ask, though, is, with a little emphasis, for foreigners coming to Hungary to knock on the door if they want to come in. This is legal, so it is polite, it is in line with European customs, and this is in line with international law, including asylum conventions. Dear House, The adoption of the law guarantees the protection of Hungary's southern borders and of the European Union's borders, guarantees that illegal immigration can be reduced, guarantees that legal border crossings, including the reception of legally protected refugees, are done in a legal order. [[13.00]] In other words, the government's aim is to put the law in order in the current immigration crisis, to bring illegal immigrants into the European Union, some of whom are real refugees, to force them to comply with the law. Dear House, With the adoption of the law, along with the technical border lock, the legal border lock will be built to support it, the crossing of the external borders of Hungary and the European Union will become orderly and regulated, the asylum procedure will become faster and the foreign police procedure will become more decisive. Constitutionally, in full compliance with Hungary's Fundamental Law, it is with full responsibility for the Hungarian electorate who votes in favour of this law, because do not forget that we are primarily responsible for the Hungarian electorate, who sent us here to the legislature to protect them, to guarantee their safety. I wish you wisdom for the vote ahead. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with decisions on the agenda. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. I'd like a test vote, please. Now press the button, one of the buttons, and we'll use it to check if the voting machine is working. Listed presence statement - now vote or signal that you are here! Okay, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's coming in a row... [[Noise.]] Give me a moment, please. [[It's ringing.]] It follows that T/5983 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the management of mass immigration. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote on the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/5983/11. T/5983/12. by serial number. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5983/11. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 140 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstention, the Parliament adopted the summary amendment. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I'll ask, because Congressman Lajos Korózs's computer is on, at least here it's signaling... [[Lajos Korózs says no.]] Congressman Korós's computer is still on. [[Lajos Korózs spread his arms. Dr. István Józsa: It cannot be changed.]] Then I'd like to ask one of our coworkers to... yes, it's all right now, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5983 accepts it. the text of the legislative proposal No. 1 as amended by the proposal for an amending amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 140 votes to 33, without abstention. Dear Parliament, The 1995 CXVII on personal income tax follows. Act XCII of 2003 on the Rules of Taxation. T/5986. Final vote of bill No. 1. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament, with a derogation from the legislation of the House. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5986 accepts it. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 174 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We have reached the end of the decisions, thank you for your work. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Some of the congressmen are leaving the meeting room. Noise.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members with great respect that only those who will take part in this work remain in this Chamber. Please leave the Chamber, who will not attend this part of the plenary session. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws in relation to the better protection of Hungary's state border and the management of mass immigration follows. tabled by our colleagues Antal Rogán, Gergely Gulyás, Bence Tuzson, István Szilárd Németh, Sándor Font, Pál Völner, Erik Bánki, Imre Vas Fidesz, and representatives of Attila Móring, Péter Harrach and Mátyás Firtl, T/5985. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Imre Vas, the author of the item, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-09-04-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment not only as a pro-government author, but also as a Member of the Parliament of Józsefváros and Ferencváros. In my constituency there is the II. Pope John Paul Square and the Keleti Railway Station and its surroundings, which has recently been overrun by immigrants and illegal immigrants who have taken seriously Germany's quasi-invitation letter, who do not want to cooperate with the Hungarian authorities. Because of the situation in Józsefváros, I would like to contribute not only to addressing the problems caused by migration as a whole, but I also urge that this local problem be resolved as soon as possible. Of course, yesterday it turned out that for some people here in Parliament, the time is not so pressing, they may still consider the issue of migration a false problem, or they simply confess to the concept of left-wing leaders in Europe and to the policies of the, which we should accept everyone. In any case, the left-wing parties did not contribute to the deviation from the house rules, so the Parliament was able to accept the bill of government only in the previous minutes. I would add that this is not small, as the legislation adopted introduces the legal institution of the crisis caused by mass immigration, establishes the rules on transit zones and establishes the criminal code of the illegal crossing of the border and the destruction of the border seal, and introduces new rules on these in the Criminal Procedure Act. Overall, the two legislative proposals amend 13 laws so that the crisis caused by migrants can be dealt with by the government. The bill we are discussing now contains proposals that require a two-thirds majority, while Parliament just adopted proposals that require a half majority a few minutes ago. I would like to draw the left-wing representatives' attention to the fact that the Office of the Prime Minister's Office published in 2005 under the Socialist Government, which is about preparing for the European Schengen Border Surveillance Requirements, contains various recommendations. It includes, among other things, the independent performance of border guards' foreign police tasks, the introduction of foreign police expulsions, the accelerated procedure, the possibility of removal to a safe third country, the extension of the investigative powers of the border guards. On this basis, it is incomprehensible to me why 41 representatives of left-wing parties did not support a derogation from the Rules of the House. Among other things, the proposal before us amends the 2011 CXIII on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and on measures that can be implemented in a special legal order. Act CCV 2012 on the status of military fighters. Act XXXIV of 1994 on Police Law. As a result of the amendment, the Hungarian Defence Office is given the opportunity and obligation to perform a new task under Article 45 (5) of the Fundamental Law. This task is linked to the mission of the Defence Forces as defined in Article 45 (1) of the Fundamental Law, which also covers the military protection of the border, given that the emerging migration crisis requires closer cooperation between the bodies involved in the protection and detention of the state borders, the involvement of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the performance of certain defence tasks. It is important that the military task to be defined in a fundamental law can only be performed during a mass migration crisis under the Asylum Act. It should be pointed out that this task, given that it is very closely linked to the constitutional position of the police, should not result in the Hungarian defence taking over the duties and powers of the police. The bill therefore states on a guarantee basis that the Hungarian Defence Office cannot take away the task and powers of the police. In view of the diversity of migration tasks, the proposal provides, on the one hand, an opportunity to carry out security, defence and ancillary tasks and, on the other hand, an obligation for the defence to remain intact by the police. Among the warranty rules, it is of paramount importance that the Hungarian Defence Office participates in its military contingent system and is led by military commanders, and, in the context of its tasks, it is necessary to define precisely the tasks, number, means, weapons, geographically defined area of responsibility and the military or state leadership powers of the participating military forces, which are eligible for secondment depending on their number. This guarantee regulation follows the rules of the Hungarian Defence Agency's involvement in disaster protection, i.e. it creates the consistency of the new type of task with the existing defence legislative environment. The purpose of the amendments is also to determine whether the government is entitled to define the means of guarding the designated facilities to be protected by the defence, so that the regulation gives the government sufficient leeway to determine the necessary means, methods of guarding and detailed tasks. In the event of the adoption of the bill, it will also be possible to use existing mass management tools, which we hope will not take place, which already exist in the missionary practice of the Hungarian Defence Office. [[13.20]] Defence and border guards were inseparable concepts in Hungarian history before 1950. During communism, the Council of Ministers 4353/194. On 1 January 1950, the border guard was removed from the subjection of the Ministry of Defence and became an independent member of the State Protection Authority. On 1 February 1951, the border guard took over most of the tasks, personnel and assets of the border police, while following the revolution and freedom struggle of 56 the border guard became the independent armed body of the Ministry of Interior. The main reason for this is that, in those days, Hungarian citizens were mainly prevented from leaving the communist regime by the charities rather than by external inflow. On the basis of what has been said, it is incomprehensible to me that left-wing opposition parties do not support the role of defence in this direction. XXXIV of 1994 on the police force By amending law, the police, in cooperation with national security services, may carry out exploratory activities abroad in order to detect acts threatening the order of the state and to implement measures necessary to manage mass migration. The purpose of the provision is to explore the activities of persons who exploit illegal migration for profit - smugglers, traffickers - by using the police's own capabilities and opportunities, without using a system of secret gathering of information. The police may also contribute effectively to public health administrations, provided that the conditions for the imposition of epidemiological measures are met. On the basis of the proposal, you can only enter or enter a policeman's private residence in a crisis caused by mass immigration in order to locate persons residing illegally in Hungary without entering or entering a private residence or an official decision. The reason for the need for regulation is that foreigners residing illegally in Hungary are either not yet under procedure or are going to an unknown place during the procedure. Overall, I believe that the law adopted today, as well as the proposal before us, offers effective means of dealing with the situation caused by mass immigration, with full compliance with EU rules, in particular with Dublin III. Agreement and the Schengen Agreement, i.e. to protect the borders of the European Union. I need your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-78	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I now give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, Minister of Defence, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government and to present the government's position. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-09-04-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The migration crisis has also reached our country and is under increasing pressure. Until yesterday, a total of 162,980 people were caught by the police this year due to illegal border crossings, of which 162,075, only in the Hungarian-Serbian border section. Europe and Hungary need to prepare for millions more to go, so long-term, lasting measures are needed, measures that need to be amended. The government is responding to a migration challenge that is becoming ever more intense at the borders of Hungary and which, for example, requires the use of violence, the introduction of an extraordinary legal order and the involvement of the army in Macedonia. Dear Parliament, The first and most important task in every emergency is to restore order, to bring the situation to a manageable state. We can solve any crisis if we find the legal framework, the right method, and assign the necessary means. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to state a few things and, on the other hand, to set the appropriate framework here in Parliament. Who's the refugee? Under the Geneva Convention, anyone who enters the territory of the host country should seek asylum at the first opportunity and then cooperates with the authorities at all times. Compared to this, everything that's happening around us is far from illegal. Illegal immigrants, who hope for a better future, have not fled and will not be protected until they have been asked to recognize this status from the state, have been appointed by the international smuggling gangs for huge money and removed from their home countries and crisis zones. Everyone has to understand that it's not safe to trust their lives, their families and their children with smugglers. Everyone needs to see that he doesn't achieve his goal by leaving your fate to smugglers. Everyone has to see that smuggling is a very bad business, and anyone who signs up for it can only be ruined. We will destroy the smuggling networks, we will destroy the business model they operate, and we will set a very expensive price for circumvention of Hungarian laws, we will definitely prevent our country from being seen as some sort of gateway. Dear Parliament, In times of severe crisis, the use of military forces and capabilities throughout the world is self-evident. It is enough to mention only the events of recent times in Europe. For example, the European Union is conducting a joint military operation in the Mediterranean to destroy and eliminate trafficking networks. The EU is a 2015/778. By Council Decision (EU) 2015/972 of 18 May 2015, which was adopted, it decided to amend Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council by means of implementing acts adopted pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, Its purpose is to identify and capture ships used for human smuggling, taking advantage of the financial opportunities of modern - day migration. Soldiers and warships are taking part in this operation. I would also like to mention that at yesterday's meeting of the European Union defence ministers in Luxembourg, Austria, the Austrian Minister for Defence, called for joint action and proposed this within the framework of the CSDP, the so-called Common Security and Defence Policy, i.e. within the military sector of the European Union's cooperation. So the use of military forces and means in the migration crisis is not from the devil at all - it is not only an EU consistency, but it is also about self-evident. Dear Parliament, At home, the Hungarian Defence Forces will be involved in the establishment of order and the implementation of the protection measures necessary to resolve the crisis from the beginnings of the refugee crisis. The temporary border closure was completed before 31 August 2015 and the temporary safety barrier will be fully established during the autumn. Although our soldiers had to overcome extraordinary difficulties, so far they have solved this task in record time; it is enough to think of this year's five heat alarms - in such circumstances they performed their proportionate tasks before the deadline. This technical system will now be heavily guarded by the police with the border-hunting squadrons, provided that you adopt the relevant legislation; some of which we have just voted for. If necessary, the defence drones will contribute to this. We will make it possible to cross the border only within the legal framework. I would like to refer here to a kind of misinterpretation of misconception, since it is self-evident and natural, and no one has ever thought otherwise about the fact that the border lock as a physical protection against the protection of living strength, together with the protection of the police and, if necessary, the protection of the Hungarian defences and the protection of the law, when we declare that the illegal crossing of our borders is illegal, and that there is indeed punishment for it, they will serve and achieve the purpose at the same time and only together. [[13.30]] With regard to the strengthening of border protection, on 1 September 2015 the Border Police Directorate was established with border hunting units within the Organisation of the Alert Police. The professional work starts with 2106 people on 15 September. Border hunting units are responsible for the protection of the state border and for further strengthening the order of the state border. The Border Police Directorate is supported by helicopter, dog and horse patrols. At the same time, the number of illegal immigrants requires that taxpayers' money be used to protect our citizens in all the appropriate and legitimate means reserved for the protection of the nation. This is what citizens expect of us, and this is what common sense demands. The solution to the current situation is now more urgent than ever, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Forces - I stress that they can help the police's work only as a contributor, not as the main person responsible for the task, as a subsidiary, as a complement. The defence will not take over the tasks of the police as defined by the Fundamental Law, so the proposal does not affect the constitutional position of the police, but only participates in them. The guarantees of the rule of law remain fully secured, together with the amendment of the Defence Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us therefore examine the laws before us. The T/5985 in question. T/5983. It relates to bill No 1. On the basis of the latter, the government response to the mass immigration of foreigners is the introduction of a legal institution for the crisis caused by mass immigration, which requires the amendment of certain legislative provisions. The proposal allows the new concept of the asylum law to be implemented in accordance with the rules of the crisis caused by mass immigration in 1994 (Policy Act XXXIV of 1994). CXIII of 2011 on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that may be introduced in the special legal order. a necessary amendment to the law and coordination of legislation on the migration crisis. The amendment of the law on police and defence is adapted to the amended text of the Asylum Act, according to which the government can declare a crisis caused by mass immigration. The government is committed to stopping people making use of illegal migration for the purpose of profit, so the legislative amendment provides an opportunity to detect the activities of traffickers and smugglers by collecting classified information. In parentheses, I note that only this year the police have launched proceedings against 885 people to facilitate smuggling and illegal residence. Police involvement with the medical administration in health and epidemiological measures should also be supported. In the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, the police may be entitled to take certain measures in order to ensure epidemiological measures, such as route, detention of public areas, restriction of the functioning of public and public institutions, entry for surveillance of sites, closure of premises. In view of the fact that foreigners residing illegally in Hungary are either not yet in the course of proceedings or have left an unknown place in the course of the proceedings, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of entering or entering the policeman's private residence without a decision by the authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to use T/5985. I should also remove a misconception from some of my fellow Members, which has already been said here today and several times in the press, as regards the legal background of the legislative proposal No. I am convinced and the government is convinced that the amendment of the Defence Act as a fundamental law before us is in line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law in force. According to Article 45 (1) of the Fundamental Law, Hungary's armed forces are the Hungarian Defence Forces. The logic of the Fundamental Law is that this Article 45 (paragraph 1) lists only the basic tasks of the defence, and that Article 45 (paragraph 5) states that the detailed rules concerning the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Service, not only the basic tasks but also the other tasks, are laid down by a fundamental law. This amendment of the Defence Act does not impose constitutional limits because the military protection of the national border is a fundamental task within the meaning of Article 45 (1) of the Fundamental Law, while Article 45 (5) entrusts the legislator, in respect of other tasks, to what it represents by a two-thirds majority in the Defence Act. An example of this is that neither the armed guarding of the Holy Crown nor the anti-terrorist discharge or even the surveillance of facilities - all three tasks in the Defence Act appear as an armed task of the military - are included in the Fundamental Law, since they are codified under Article 45 (5). That's how they were published in the Defense Act. But who would dispute the correctness or legitimacy or constitutionality of carrying out these tasks by defence? So a false debate on whether, on the basis of the same mandate, additional tasks can be given to the defence. Of course, a two-thirds majority of the Parliament can do this by amending the Defence Act without amending the Fundamental Law. Article 46 (1) of the Fundamental Law states that the fundamental task of the police is, inter alia, to protect the order of the state border. Accordingly, the proposal before us has a sufficient guarantee element, which states that the Hungarian Defence Forces cannot detract from the task and powers of the police, i.e. the proposal does not affect the constitutional position of the police. It will not affect it, given the fact that the draft text states that the military contribution is only available in the area defined in the announced migration crisis and the government decree declaring it. So the fears expressed by opposition parties that the military could now be used for anything against civilians throughout the country. It cannot, of course, be described very precisely in the decision ordering the defence of the aforementioned place and time as limits. With the introduction of a new subtitle, the amendment of the Defence Act defines a power for the staff that is sufficient and appropriate so that the seconded forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces are actually able to help the police deal with the crisis caused by mass immigration. The soldier, I stress, will be entitled to stop, secure location, landlock and coercive measures on the road only during this migration crisis and in the crisis area, and to take measures restricting and not restricting personal freedom. The general provisions of the Defence Act on the use of weapons and other coercive instruments are introduced by this amendment only in the event of a migration crisis. Accordingly, a soldier may use a coercive device capable of causing physical injury to anyone, but its use shall not, except for an attack against a person which cannot otherwise be avoided, seriously endangers life or physical integrity, be aimed at the extinction of human life. [[13.40]] So with a very narrow, special exception, it cannot be imagined that a soldier or a weapon should be used in a manner suitable for the killing of human life. The use of weapons and coercive instruments has been defined in the bill, respecting the principles of necessity and proportionality. In addition to the amendment of the Defence Act, the 2012 CCV on the status of civil servants is justified. Amendment to the Act, given the need to regulate and register the limitation of the law contained in it. On the basis of this amendment, the legislator, considering the gravity of the tasks, would provide that the command given to the military defender, like its contribution to disaster management, does not have to be carried out in the context of the intervention in the context of the migration crisis that we are discussing here, with the courage to sacrifice the life of the soldier. This is the kind of commitment we expect and demand from our soldiers, if any, in the area of the armed defence of the country. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that T/5983 is also to be negotiated today. The proposal also provides an opportunity for defence to assist asylum authorities in administrative, i.e. registration tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, We live in times of crisis, in times of crisis, words are only worth what they have done to them; they have done that we defend human rights just as much as the laws of our country and of Europe, the interests of the Hungarian nation. I ask everyone to establish good laws as legislators to deal with this unprecedented crisis. Please allow us to do everything the country requires to protect the Hungarian people. Make it possible for us to clean up and solve our part of the crisis. Dear Parliament, For this reason, the Government supports the proposals put forward. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-80	Thank you very much, Minister Csaba Hende. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr István Szilárd Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-09-04-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, A few minutes ago, we adopted a bill amending ten laws dealing with the crisis caused by mass immigration, and it was presented to us by the government. Although this is only a minority of Parliament, we can say that in its number so significant a minority voted against the bill, who prevented us from making the bill before us, which amends the law on defence, the law on police law and the law on the status of defences, from negotiating it in exceptional proceedings, and we can now make a decision about it today. However, you can see that you only watch the news, and you do not have as much information as a Member of Parliament, and you can also see that every minute counts, every minute counts in order to give the government, the authorities, the offices, the people who are working to prevent illegal immigration, to solve and deal with the crisis caused by illegal immigration, every single means to be provided. The Minister has said what this bill is about, so I would like to say a few words, not about this issue, but about the gravity of the situation. By the way, back to this time-consuming tactic, let us go back to this left-wing immigration policy because during the morning, Tamás Harangozó, Deputy Group Leader, did not pass through to me where Viktor Orbán was yesterday when we voted on this procedural order. He knows exactly where he was, but here we have to create a little tension, and at all, they don't deal with immigration, but their only goal is to drill and carve the government and the majority of governments wherever they can. Viktor Orbán was in Brussels right now, and he also discussed the situation in Hungary with the most important political circles, with all the key European Union politicians, Mr Junckers, Mr Schulz and Mr Tusk, and at least managed to get the sentence out of them that they couldn't do any better than the fence. Yes, the fence must be reinforced first, because this is the key to the whole, Schengen at the border, the protection of the Hungarian borders is our first priority. And I would add that 41 non-votes would have been enough to drill this extraordinary procedure even if everyone was present, so if the Prime Minister were present, because more than 20 percent of all elected Members would have been 41 votes, and this would have required a four-fifth majority. So much for lies, slips and misinterpretations, by the way. But where did they get here? They came here because, back in June, they said that under the leadership of Mrs. Ágnes Kunhalmi and Csaba Horváth, head of the capital faction - [[Defiance.]] Mr. Head of the Capital Group, I'm sorry - there was a chorus about immigration, the whole illegal immigration, the pressure that the country is under, a fake problem, and only the government wants to distract attention from other problems. Today, we are also talking about the fact that, in relation to the DK, joint, PM speakers and the statements they made at the last day's meetings, we find that they are no longer talking about the fact that this is a pseudo-problem, but they want us, Hungarians, to be subject to an immigration procedure in our own country. So it would be good if the Hungarians went into these transit zones, and the immigrants did what they wanted in this country, if they had paper, if they came in legally, if they were illegal, if they were two or three thousand per day. I think that this approach, which the Hungarian left is doing, is amazing and sends a message to the Hungarian people. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] But I would also like to draw the attention of my better fellow Members, I do not know whether the slippage was intentional or whether they were just looking the wrong way about the employment of this 59 thousand migrants. This is about the fact that, in practice, we have been a Member State of the European Union, and even in preparation, we have had to comply with this directive. This is a statistical reporting based on a regulation and the number of potential third country employees in the EU, including in Hungary, should otherwise be determined subject to the conditions and conditions laid down by that country. This is a statistical number, this is 59 thousand this year, but I would like to say that in 2014, for example, there were 76 thousand, and the real application was 4671 out of 76 thousand. You can smile on it, but it's not worth it, and it's a shame to blow it up like this, because it's not about having 59 thousand migrants gathered here by the country, and it's going to apply, and it's under very serious conditions. For example, one of the conditions that we have set is that in the area where such a person might be employed, Hungarian people cannot be employed there. So this is about foreign employees, so let's not mix this up, and all the numbers we've had so far convince us that practically the opportunity that Hungary announces to the European employment office is not being used in reality; I think it will be something similar this year as well. I spoke to the Secretary of State, and he says that so far there has been a demand for around two thousand people to be employed by the end of August this year. Well, I'd like to draw attention to one more thing. It was said that I was very shocked - there were many shocking things, but the most shocking thing for me as a family father and a teacher is when children come to the fore on some issues that adults should play among themselves. [[13.50]] It was absolutely amazing to look at the world press this morning, the newspapers that appeared in Hungary this morning, and have mostly left-wing opposition ties. They presented a photograph of an immigrant couple lying with their child on the tracks, and policemen leaning over them, sending a message that the Hungarian police, look at what they are doing, beating immigrants, pushing them down the tracks. And then I watched the movie, the movie that was cut. In the movie that was cut, the story begins with a man dropping on a woman already lying on the ground, trying to protect her child and her body, and then when the police pick her up from there, she hits her head, scratches herself, rips her hair, like there's a huge problem. I think I'd do the same thing if that happened. But that's not what happened! There's another movie, the whole movie they forgot to show you, where you can see that the dad pushes the family off the platform - that's how the story begins - and then jumps after them, and the cops want to protect the family from this madman. Where are those fellow law-abiding politicians who want to measure three years in Hungary for a father's slap? Where are they? Where are they hiding? Why aren't they talking at this hour? Amazing! The Hungarian Btk, by the way. You know the minor endangerment clause very seriously. I think that endangerment of a minor is not only an act that can be seen in this moment, but also when poor people, who have been instigated and otherwise instigated to the Eastern Railway Station, do so by either their own child or another's child in the air. Look at those kids' faces. That's amazing. I think we need to reject that. And we must reject the speeches of Members of Parliament who have taken hold of this. However, the problem is much bigger. We've heard here in the last few hours that everyone perceives the problem, except for some, of course, and they perceive the problem from somewhere else. But the root of the problem is that, this year, illegal immigrants arrived on the border of Hungary and Hungary - I would like to emphasise once again, illegal immigrants - who come into the country without any travel documents, through the green border, and do practically what they want here. These immigrants are organized from North Africa, Central Africa, but mostly from the Asian region, from the Middle East by smugglers and hordes of smugglers on this secure route. Because the safest way to the European Union today is not in the Mediterranean, but obviously on this Balkan route. How we got involved in all of this would also be worth a Mass, but let us not forget and state that this situation was not caused by Hungary. This situation has been caused by the irresponsible immigration policy of the European Union. The irresponsible statements of irresponsible politicians in the European Union, who do so every day - when they do so and then the next day they negligate it and then on the third day they confirm - are practically encouraging these unfortunate people to do so, and through them they encourage smugglers to do this huge business. In recent years, this has been a EUR 16 billion deal, with the cost of the death of 30,000 people, either in the Mediterranean or on land or on the A4 motorway to Vienna. They encourage these people to leave their previous lives behind, leaving everything, bringing part of their families, or their entire families, or self-organizing, collapsing, or looking for a new home by smugglers, because they show these people a picture of Europe that is worth coming over here, you'll have a car, you'll have an apartment here, you'll have everything. Imagine that nine out of ten of these people will not be able to show on the map where Budapest is, or where Berlin is. As we are the other way around: if we ask the average person what Burkina Faso is and where it is, then I think nine out of ten people in Hungary wouldn't really know that. They don't go anywhere on their own, but encourage, organize, and carry them to the border. This is a very important and very tough problem, and this is also compounded by the irresponsible behaviour of the left, with which the word "serving foreign powers" means always wanting to serve some foreign interests, and therefore, in practice, they believe that they will be on the side of immigrants here in Hungary and, like irresponsible European Union politicians and bureaucrats, they are almost encouraging these people. We have heard here Szabó Timea - I think the word is perhaps a good thing - inciting him against the Hungarian government, against the Hungarians. It is absolutely amazing that this speech could have been spoken here in the Hungarian Parliament at all. And then it comes from here, how to solve the problem. If you have the Philosopher's Stone to solve the problem, come in. Anyone who can stop this problem, this complex problem, this enormous pressure with a magic rod, or can only say a means that can be solved, is certainly not sitting here with us, but we may not even see it in the European Union. Any television broadcast where reporters from different cities of the European Union are registered, it can be seen that there are either conflicting or conflicting proposals from politicians, even though the European Union has a set of rules for this, called the Schengen Convention and the Dublin Convention. But it looks like they've failed. The Schengen Convention makes it quite clear that the borders of the European Union must be protected at the Schengen borders. Compared to this, the key politicians in the European Union are the ones who want to fulfill their duty - namely us Hungarians. The Dublin Convention clearly states that you cannot roam around Europe without travel documents and all kinds of visas, messing everything up, and it has its own order. Ladies and gentlemen, With this bill, we aim to protect borders, protect Schengen and Hungarian borders, protect Hungarian interests and Hungarian jobs. I'm asking everyone to support you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-82	Thank you very much, Mr Szilárd Németh. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that he has canceled the announcement of the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I now give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-04-83	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The free movement of persons is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Treaties to the citizens of the European Union, based on freedom, security and justice. The abolition of internal borders requires enhanced control of the EU's external borders and regulation of the entry and residence of nationals of non-EU countries into the EU, one of which is the common asylum and immigration policy. The principle of free movement of persons is achieved by the signing of the 1985 Schengen Convention and the subsequent 1990 Schengen Treaty, with which the process of lifting border controls between participating countries has begun, as part of the EU's legal institutional framework Schengen cooperation has been gradually extended, including most EU Member States and some non-member countries. It should be noted that a person who is outside his country of origin because of racial or religious reasons, national affiliation, membership of a specific social group, persecution of political convictions, or justified fear of persecution, has fled because of the Geneva Convention, and does not know or wish to take advantage of the protection of his country of origin in fear of persecution. [[14.00]] Reasonable fear of persecution may also be based on events that occurred after leaving the foreign country of origin or in an activity carried out abroad after leaving its country of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, Hungary has always respected the Geneva Convention and acted accordingly, even when the South Slavic War caused a huge wave of migration to Hungary. Even then, we have dealt with this issue as an example and we have stood by it. Of course, in 2004 Hungary joined the European Union and started to adapt its legislation, including the rules on asylum to the rules of the European Union on the basis of harmonisation. By 2013, we developed our first migration policy, one of which was that one of the basics of which was that the person who came into Hungary was able to enlist him in camps by giving him the right asylum procedure. This, of course, did not correspond to the European Union Dublin III. Its convention, because the person we have registered can immediately come out of these places and go freely on the territory of the country, but we can no longer control how and how they will otherwise end up in the European Union. In this connection, my honourable fellow Member, the question arises of how Hungary's responsibility has been increased by the fact that, by reason of its geographical situation, it is indeed a transit country, and this European Union must protect the Schengen border. If we look at the past period, we see that in 2011 there were 1693 asylum seekers in Hungary, in 2012 there were 2157 asylum seekers. In 2013 there was already a leap-like increase: 18 900, in 2014 42 777. Well, my fellow Members, the Immigration and Nationality Office has recorded some 140,000 asylum applications, and according to ORFK data on 2 September, this number is now 163 297; this is data on 2. As a result of this huge increase, it can be concluded that large-scale migration also involves raising security policy issues, since not everyone comes to the attention of the police through mass appearances, not even in the eyes of the Immigration Office. In this way, various terrorist cells can be created and facilitated. Not to mention, my fellow Members, who know the surroundings of Asotthalom, Morahalom or Röszke, you will see what health problems this huge migration that has to do with the country can cause. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches.]] It is also a very, very sad fact that every day it is observed that immigrants are becoming more aggressive, because the European Union is increasingly irresponsible in encouraging immigrants to leave their country and take their course towards Europe. It is no wonder that immigrants are becoming increasingly consistent and demanding, more aggressive when given such encouragement. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary stabilises its financial and economic situation [[Constant noise from Jobbik's benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] , thus creating as many jobs as possible for the Hungarian people. We need to defend this achievement, because we cannot afford to spend 1.1 billion in 2012, 1.8 billion in 2013, 2.6 billion forints for increased migration in 2014. Hungary has to provide daily care, medical, health care, social care, as well as the provision of pocket money, until the final reversal of the decisions. It's all with our taxpayers' money on it, we're solidarity, we're humane, but there's a line this country can and can't handle. In Western Europe, too, it has been proven that there are very big problems also in the cultural field. We must protect our borders, Central European countries, which have only recently come out of the economic crisis, cannot afford to be the victims of Brussels' failed policy. We want to continue to develop the economy without the burden of an unbearable flood of illegal immigrants arriving in Hungary [[Constant noise from Jobbik's benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We cannot allow illegal immigrants to endanger the workplace and social security of Hungarian people.
u2015-09-04-84	Give me a moment, Congressman. I respectfully remind my fellow Members that there is also a television broadcast, and I am ashamed to see laughing Members on the screen in the midst of a dramatic plenary session. I apologize for reminding you of that. Go on, Congressman.
u2015-09-04-85	Thank you, Mr. President. I've listened to everyone with all due respect. I hoped that my fellow Members would listen to the other. But the president had to call on them. We have the right, honourable Members, to defend our culture, our language. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's right!]] That's right, thank you, Congressman Staudt. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of Parliament, where the border was opened, it is important that I remind you today that Hungary is taking steps to protect the same Europe as it did when it opened its borders to the European Union. Despite all the false and demagogic manifestations in the present, belonging to the same basic common values, our joint strengthening and faith were the aim of breaking down the iron curtain raised by the dictatorship, as was the construction of the current border protection system. We are living in a time when our values are at risk, everything that has been in our Europeanity, which is a sure and lasting basis for development and growth. Now illegal immigration threatens both Hungary and Europe. It is a danger to our common values, our culture, but also to our livelihood. It is therefore unfair to blur together the strengthening of the European Union's common values of peoples and cultures, of iron curtains and of our border protection to prevent danger. The difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Iron Curtain was built by dictatorship against its own people and Hungarians for our intimidation and vulnerability. I just want to remind you that they didn't hesitate to set up a mine lock to preserve the border to terrorize their own nation. The border fence, my fellow Members, is built on responsibility for the safety of our families, our settlements and our everyday lives, to protect our lives. The stakes for us today are the European way of life and life, our security, European values and changes to the survival or disappearance of nations, but more importantly, today the stakes are the safety of Hungary, the safety of our everyday lives, the safety of our homes and our children. Dear House, We have been members of the European Union for 11 years. We should be aware that free movement within the Union is an EU acquis and a right. This is what we need to protect, because this is how we Hungarians can move freely in the European Union, and this is what Hungarians use when crossing borders without controls when they can go anywhere in the European Union. Look at the chaos the Austrian could have caused in an instant when it introduced a kind of border control. That is why we need to do this Schengen border control in such a way that the European Union cannot join us, because the European Union is making the double standard that what they think in France or in the tunnel should be done, either in Spain or in Bulgaria, but Hungary should not do it. [[14.10]] If the Hungarian manifestations of the late 1980s were for the benefit of Europe, my fellow Members, then we can trust that we can make similar decisions and act for Hungary and Europe in 2015 as well. Dear House, T/5985 submitted to Parliament. in connection with the more effective protection of the national border of Hungary and the management of mass immigration... - the fundamental intention of our motion was to state with the protection of defence tasks to the defence that, in its involvement with the police, it could not detract from its tasks and powers, and the facilities to be protected by the defence could be defined by the government by decree. For example, the defence may have a new licence to stop motor vehicles on the road, as well as to allow soldiers, policemen, to cover their premises, close their territory, and to use coercive devices, or to restrict their personal freedom. We are proposing to allow police and illegal immigrants to infiltrate private homes without entry or official decision in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration. We would also amend the police law to allow the authorities to carry out foreign reconnaissance activities in the fight against smugglers. In addition, the police could be involved in emergency emergency measures with another change. Dear House, When we propose the involvement of the defences and the left-wing opposition - I could say that the dwarf opposition - is getting to the point of attacking Hungary in the Hague court, I can say that now Minister has just mentioned what Austria's Minister for Defence said at the ministerial meeting. But I would like to remind my fellow Members that, when Austria joined the Schengen area, it was indeed the Austrian border, the Bundesheer, and we saw soldiers serving machine rifles on the Hungarian-Austrian border serving the same purpose Hungary wants to introduce. I would like to call on this because when left-wing Members are dealing with this, they should ask how Austria could have done so, and not when Hungary is trying to protect its borders in a crisis situation, in a qualified situation. I would also like to say that the Austrian police, the Austrian military, if someone did not pass through that particular crossing point, it was indeed produced, even though we were European Schengen citizens even then, and even punished those who were not on that route for EUR 30-40. So when this proposal is made, I ask my fellow Members that we really give the defence the authority through this law to help protect Hungary. And then, during the migration wave, we must thank the police, the Immigration Office, the TEK, the Constitutional Protection Office and, of course, the Defence Office for trying to meet the deadlines and to fulfill them in the coming time. I therefore ask my fellow Members that there is a situation now, a situation where we need to join together, when we need to do everything we can to protect Hungary's borders in a proper way, and, of course, to protect Europe's borders and the Schengen borders. I ask you to support our proposal and vote in this, thus helping Hungary's safety, the safety of our families and our children. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-04-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Mátyás Firtl. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2015-09-04-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! I would like to point out, first of all, that if there is criticism on our part, it is not because we are in the opposition and everything that the government is doing is wrong, but it is really about the fact that we want to make Hungary and the Hungarian people's protection better and more effective in relation to illegal immigration. I would add that I do not miss the Socialist Members not being here, but I believe that in a crisis or crisis situation, their responsibility and responsibility are well shown by their participation today or their presence in citations, that they are not able to work for their salary quasi and to do what they are supposed to do, namely to contribute to a proper decision-making process. As for yesterday's four-fifths vote, I would like to throw back a little bit now on the ball of which opposition representatives have now languished to make things work out according to your plans. We know that and we knew that the left would not vote for it, and you knew it, because they made it public in advance that they would not support it. However, Antal Rogán, your group leader, started or closed his speech before the agenda with the following speech: whoever does not support a derogation from the Rules of the House, virtually says that he will withdraw the opportunity from the Hungarian government to protect the borders, he wants to stall the time and let immigrants in. After that, we looked at what it was after: it was four votes, and eight of you were missing. Specifically Gyula Budai, Péter Csizi, László Kövér, Viktor Orbán, Károly Panczél, György Rubovszky, Kristóf Szatmáry and Péter Szijjártó. So according to Antal Rogán, they did not support the departure from the Rules, i.e. they withdrew the opportunity to protect the borders, they want to buy time, they want to let immigrants in. I am only saying this because if we had the right reasons for the crisis and the weight of each Member's decision, then ask the prominent ones why they did not make it possible, because with Jobbik's 100 percent presence and support, you would have had the necessary four-fifths if you had the same attitude that others are asking for, you would have done all this. But back to the concrete proposal: it is a shock and I believe that TV viewers have seen and heard the kind of balliberal concern that has been going on around the defence for a long time now, so what an outrage it is to want Hungarian soldiers to defend the Hungarian borders. I think this one story shows well the fault line of who is fit for any public position, responsibility and who is not in Hungary. Asking for it, either outside the government or outside the government, to those Members who believe that the Hungarian borders must be protected, and we have no more natural solution if we no longer have a border guard than the Hungarian Defence Forces, that is a shock. So I'm gonna tell the liberals from here to ask other countries what they're using the military for if it's not for the protection of the country, their borders and their inhabitants, their citizens. It is a fundamental task, and we are pleased that this proposal and our proposal have been heard, and I am particularly pleased that the Minister is also serious, and that in the Defence and Police Committee, I believe, we have been given a satisfactory answer to the various questions. I would also like to underline that we didn't talk about it either, I don't know where different liberal journalists get that Jobbik wants a fire order. We're talking about the opposite. And I think it is important to say here that it has never occurred to us to have any civilians shot to death here by Hungarian soldiers, policemen or anyone else. But we are talking about the need to enforce and enforce borders and laws by means of coercive means that are not necessary to kill human life. And do this, soldier, do this policeman or anyone else, you're doing the right thing. I have just seen Mr Kontra, Secretary of State, although I do not see him now, I would actually like to add this to this: it has been said that in addition to the military, 3,600 police officers will be sent to the border from 15 September. I suppose most of this will consist of the police force on alert, but it has been said that to another part, so-called frontier hunting centuries will be created from schoolchildren, since even untrained and unfinished students will be conducted if necessary. That's a bit of a problem. We believe that the Emergency Police are capable of such a task, the Hungarian Defence Office is capable of such a task, even though Tamás Harangozó claims that Hungarian soldiers are not trained for this. I would remind you, however, that, if we are already on the basis of foreign military missions that we have never supported, KFOR, Afghan or Iraqi engagements have certainly been designed to protect objects, and there are many different situations where Hungarian soldiers are trained and trained, and why they could not defend Hungarian borders. [[14.20]] We also disagree with the socialists in this regard. What I would like to emphasise here is once again from my colleague, Szilárd Németh, that the European Union is responsible. I do not dispute the words of my fellow Member, and we also believe that the European Union's dilettant policy and dilettious revelations continue to drive masses of people towards different countries of destination, but if we are talking about the issue of responsibility, let us not forget, and always add at least the responsibility of the United States of America for the sake of the protocol. To blame the European Union for what happened during the Arab Spring or for blaming the European Union for what is in the Middle East, it is possible, but it cannot be blamed for the sole responsibility. Here the United States of America has played a very serious role, and the United States has, oddly enough, been in awkward silence over the refugee crisis for months. It's nothing, and it's not a coincidence, and, you know, a person with intelligence or intelligence skills, when you say that you always have to look at who's interest is, and the second question is who's got the money and the opportunity, then I think we can go beyond the European Union again on the issue of responsibility, but I don't want to get caught up in that. As for the border lock and the fence or the future fence or the technical barrier, what I mean is that when the government says that this will make sense on 15 September, when living force will protect the technical barrier and later the fence, I would like to say that, unfortunately, Viktor Orbán made a bed for the expectation that the problem will be solved with the August deadline, because he also talked about that if the fence is finished, then there will be no problem. And in many cases, it was also discussed in journalistic questions, and it was never put in the wrong place, that when the defence was taken over, the police would be strengthened. And that's why in ordinary people, people who, let's just say, eat one news or news a day, think that when this technical barrier was completed by 31 August, how is it possible that illegal offenders would flow in x a thousand souls a day. And how tolerant or how empathetic you have to be is an important thing, and I think that we agree that who, without documents, deliberately throwing away, tearing up personal identification documents, illegally, almost committing a crime in a country, does not have the right to ask for sympathy and care against which a lot of people are trying to discredit Hungary. We think, as a hundred words, not lost in the details: we have an important proposal ahead of us, we also support the proposal, obviously we will talk about our concerns, but this does not concern the defence, rather we will want the police and we will want effective work. What is important, however, and perhaps as a question, is that if we were to get an answer from either Minister or anyone else, that, for example, if there would be a situation in a transit zone that has now developed in Röszke, that they will act violently and try to break out, how and how the military will act. I wasn't afraid of them in the first place. I was afraid of the man who gave the order. I am well aware that the Defense Act sets out the opportunities that they are dealing with, but the public is primarily interested in not having something that will most likely arise by 15 September, how and how police are now helping illegal border offenders across the technical barrier. Obviously, the opposite of the defence will be your job, and I very much hope that this will work effectively. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-88	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian to tell his thoughts in the remaining time.
u2015-09-04-89	Mr President, Dear House, After all, the package before us aims to coordinate the tasks of police and defence in order to ensure the protection of Hungary's borders in the longer term. And that's where the first questions come from. While there has been a long debate on the need for a fundamental law amendment in order to ensure that the defence can be deployed at all and then used in the future. To this end, Jobbik has submitted a package of fundamental law-modifying measures to remove these misunderstandings. Obviously, it would be useful if we could negotiate these in its entirety, but we also need to see that the basis of the debate is missing, namely the fence, the physical border lock, which is indeed - rightly recognised - Jobbik has said for a long time, can only be protected by human strength and resources. The weed we're dealing with, well, it's easy to break through even by ravishing ladies. It can be concluded from a large number of discarded winter coats found in the area that very often they use the means to drive down this fence and simply cross over it. So the real fence, not the weed, but the fence, when can it be ready? I mean, the deadline for that is over. And then, obviously, the key question is that we want to see squadrons of ornaments there, or that we want to see a force of action that intervenes in substance. Obviously, we need to lean towards the latter. Another important question is the level and extent of calling our soldiers home. After all, those who take part in different missions may not be so many, because some people are resting at home, some are preparing for the next mission, so here we are talking about a larger, very well-trained, deployable, useful number, and clearly a real resource that could be used and used. But what really captures one's attention is the amendment to the law on the police, also the part that makes it possible to take and implement epidemiological measures. We consider it necessary, even if certain parts of it can be ordered in a way that is possible under the laws in force, but we can also see that what is currently taking place during this debate, that the mass of migrants who do not comply with any rules is marching through both the capital and hundreds of people have broken out over Röszk, predicting a situation in Hungary that can only be dealt with by far more powerful and radical means. The huge public health and epidemiological emergency alone is that hundreds, thousands march through populated areas, cities or even the capital, are simply untenable. We understand that in the case of the government there is also a tickle-tickle game that is not so bad for Fidesz-KDNP now, if this problem can be broadcast in the media, it is very important, because then the intervention measures intended to be tougher can be justified if necessary. But this should not be a reason to expose the civilian population to a contact with the aliens that is completely unjustified and, where appropriate, involves an emergency. When we talk about newcomers, let us not only look at young children aged 2-3 years old, because although the media likes to report on this, reality and real measurements prove that 83 percent of them are men of combatable age in relation to arrivals, so here we should think of the 18-35 or rather the 18-40 age group. Interestingly, when Suleiman's army appeared with nearly the number of people who entered Hungary this year without a call, illegally, the reaction of the country was different. It has been a long time since then that we have entered another era of history, but the fact that these people can do it defenceless, that they enter within the territory of the European Union, and that the Government of Hungary sees this as a lame duck is quite amazing. So we ask you to move quickly through this package, to accept the amendments that will improve this in the right direction, not to try to be authorised to search private homes unduly, but to protect borders and not to let anyone cross the Hungarian border illegally on the basis of the zero tolerance principle. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-90	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Group Leader András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-09-04-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In front of the substance of the bill, I would also like to reflect partly on what my fellow Member, Mr Kárpat, has just said. [[14.30]] So what we are seeing is that the crowd that started partly from the Middle East, partly from Africa, exactly from conflict zones that we consider to be conflict zones in a similar way. In Hungarian, there are countless families with children, countless young men of teenage age, and we can also see, whether from the recordings in Hungary or from the heartbreaking footage in the Mediterranean, that there are very hard human dramas and tragedies behind those who ask for admission here. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Behind some of them.]] Behind some of them, my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, but in order to be able to act in accordance with the humane principles of humanity, and of the Christian principles that you or the fundamental law at all, it is necessary to look at those who are asking for admission here - among those who are unique people, Mr Apáti - who are truly refugees of war from Africa, from Syria, from Afghanistan, and who are not. This requires a humane procedure and a fair asylum procedure. It is therefore in our interest to have a procedure where there is a real distinction between refugees and those who are entitled to protection from economic immigrants, to distinguish between those who are fleeing the war, to decide in a fair procedure where who comes from. I think, my fellow Members, that both the Hungarian authorities and, by the way, the European co-governments have the right practice to do so. Indeed, the situation is very difficult when the Hungarian Government has reduced the budget of the Immigration and Nationality Office in the 2016 budget submitted in May rather than expanding capacity. So, in order to be able to look in the mirror, in order to be able to meet the fundamental requirements of the Fundamental Law, or the order that we want to enforce here in Hungary, yes, we have to treat them as human beings, yes, we have to admit that very often these people flee from wars, armed conflicts in which the West has a huge responsibility, but Hungary is also a part of this West, and, if we are talking about Hungary's military engagement in northern Kurdistan, in other countries, Africa and Asia, yes, there is a responsibility. It should also be considered how the operations to which Hungary has given its blessing in recent years have caused the crises which, by the way, have triggered, generated and strengthened this wave of immigration. Faced with the fact that, as the military alliance, which Hungary is part of, has touched the crises in North Africa, in the Middle East, it was an extremely irresponsible, adventurous policy. We have to say this, Minister. It is important to see that even the intervention that the Medgyessy government had first looted and gave its blessing to the intervention in Iraq in 2003, this Iraqi intervention, the fact that the United States and the Blair government were trampling international law on their feet, is the cause of the fact that this international legal regime has now been shaken. I said this, too, when the parliamentary debate was on military intervention in northern Kurdistan. If my better fellow Members here shout that some of them are really entitled to asylum if they say that less than 10 percent, according to my fellow Member Apáti, representative Z. Karpat said something about 82 percent of them being fit for war, how do you know that? How do you know that? I think that it is precisely for the Hungarian government [[Intercoms from Jobbik: We can tell!]] , or the Hungarian administrative bodies, the specialised services, should have a clear picture of the composition, where they come from, why they come and what their composition is. We don't have any exact information on this. The fact that the betterman doesn't have or we LMPs don't have accurate information is one thing, but it is sad enough if the Hungarian government doesn't have an accurate picture of this, and this is what the current situation shows. One more thing: while we are talking about the justification of this law, it is also important to note that in recent days the events that unfortunately also visited the world press about Budapest, Bicsk, these events, which, by the way, have rightly disturbed the sense of security of the Hungarian people, have occurred. I do not find it funny that, in the previous debate, we had an argument with my fellow Member Apáti, that if seriously traumatized people take thousands of kilometers, and then these people in a country they do not know, the railway, the various public authorities, are simply teasing him, in Hungarian: they start you on a train to arrive in Vienna, and then they accidentally go to Bicsk instead of Vienna. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Nobody told them they were coming to Vienna!]] Some difference in letters, and then these people are gonna snap out of it. I don't think this is a funny situation. It is important to see that in the fact that the security situation has been shaken in the last few days, the fact is that the Hungarian government and the various Hungarian bodies have acted in a very clear, clear and consistent manner, including the Hungarian Railways. It also includes the fact that people who seek asylum, who enter the territory of Hungary illegally, have not received clear and clear information about, let me say, very simply, what the order is. That's not on them, Minister. Why is it that it is civilian volunteers who try to give these people some very basic information in Farsi and Urdu about how many meters? This would be the task of the Hungarian Government, and once again, before my better colleagues here yell that I am talking about migrant caressing, no! In addition to the fact that they have human rights, this is primarily in the interests of the Hungarian people. That these people at the Keleti Railway Station or anywhere else should be properly informed of what order is, where to go, and where to go, and where to go, and when to expect what, it would be the duty of the Hungarian government. This does not require the use of defence, which would require a fair administration procedure. As far as the concrete bill is concerned, I can continue to confirm that this bill is against fundamental law in two respects. On the one hand, T/5985. This bill, which we are discussing, is logically based on a bill just passed an hour or two ago. I have already said in the debate that, however Fidesz or the Habony works magically work with the words, the immigration emergency that the Parliament has just provided for is also a special form of special legal order that has been dealt with separately in the Fundamental Law. In view of the fact that the Fundamental Law exhaustively lists the various emergency situations, the special legal order, the introduction of a legal institution in substance which constitutes a specific legal order in substance, since, in relation to a given state of very precise description, it establishes special rules for the other legislation, this is circumvention of the constitutional rules of the special legal order. I would have liked to have changed the basic law! Two-thirds of the Jobbiks would have done the same thing, Minister. I don't understand why, when we're talking about such serious things, you're talking about an immigration emergency, you're trying to install new tasks for the defence, why you're risking falling into your own Fundamental Law. I think that in itself is a truly amazing irresponsible thing to do. Dear Parliament, The other reason why I think that this bill is against the law is that, as the special legal order is listed in taxatíte, the various situations of this are established by the Hungarian Fundamental Law, and so the Fundamental Law, if we compare, for example, Articles 45 and 46, clearly separates what is the duty of the military and what is the duty of law enforcement bodies. You may be throwing foreign examples, and this is what you did here at the time of constitutional destruction, but the fact is, yes, there are countries where defence and police tasks are mixed with certain bodies, see the National Guard in the United States of America, but in the Fundamental Law you created, I note, in the previous constitution too, there are strict divisions of defense and law enforcement tasks. Here are Articles 45 and 46, Minister. We have no argument that border protection is the constitutional obligation of the defence - border protection, but border police are not. [[14.40]] So, on the one hand, not going into principle, I think that you would have liked to have asked for an amendment to the basic law. It is written that the Hungarian Defence Office is responsible for the independence of the country. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Basic!]] the protection of its territorial integrity and boundaries. [[Csaba Hende: Basic task.]] He's not here, Minister, he's not here. Read it. I'll give it to you. He's not here. You've been able to leave the word "" out of the text of the Fundamental Law. Here it is again: the armed forces of Hungary are the Hungarian Defence Forces. The basic task of the Hungarian Defence Forces is the military protection of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity and borders - Minister. It is not that its borders are basically military protection, military protection of its borders. [[Defiance.]] Minister, if you will then read further Article 46... [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell. Csaba Hende: But is there the basic or not?]] But, Minister, it is not installed there, and afterwards, when the police are told of their duties, it says that the police are responsible for protecting the state's order. The two things aren't the same. So in Hungarian: the defense function and the police function are separated in Articles 45 and 46. However, there is also a specific problem, in addition to the need to amend the Fundamental Law. In particular, the fact that at present, obviously in accordance with previous and current constitutional order, military and police training is taking place separately. Police officers are trained for police duties, law enforcement schools and law enforcement at the Police College earlier. So look, obviously it's an exaggeration, but it can also be said that after your blessed activities and your predecessors' blessed activities, there is a slow shortage of nurses and doctors in the Hungarian hospitals, there are not enough surgeons and nurses in the Hungarian surgeons, you can also say that after all the tailors have seen needles and thread, we should send them into the surgery. The soldiers you want to deploy are simply not prepared for the police tasks you wish to carry out with the defence, precisely because of previous and current constitutional regulations. [[Csaba Hende: A serious mistake!]] What would be eligible in this proposal is that in such an emergency situation, which has been laid down by the recent law, the government can declare, in humanitarian and logistical tasks, that the defence should assist the police. We can support that. That's not what this is about. Of course, it should also be said that, while there are elements in the expansion of police powers that are eligible or at least eligible for support for it, I am thinking of the amendment to the epidemiological rules, the fact that they simply give the law enforcement authorities another blank cheque that they can enter private residences is no longer about the immigration crisis. This goes on the path that you want to put the power of state entirely above the private sphere of citizens. The situation is that the current police law, i.e. the 1994 XXXI in force, is in force. Law also provides an opportunity, so the current law enforcement powers are also given the opportunity, precisely because of the criminal code amendment that has just been adopted, to enter an apartment, where appropriate. Yeah, in a tighter circle. So you want to create an opportunity for the police to say that he's looking for migrants, to enter anyone's apartment. You can ring the bell to Ferenc Gyurcsány, ring the bell to anyone else who doesn't go public, let's say, in the press. That's pretty amazing. Mr. Secretary. The current police law is 39. §2 of the Act already allows access to a private residence for the purpose of preventing and interrupting the commission of a criminal offence. And I go on: you can also enter a private apartment for the purpose of creating a person who has committed an offence against an order. That is why we said that this amendment is not suitable for dealing with the current crisis, that the police law already has the rights to the police to enter homes in the event of a crime. In addition, the amendment of Btk. a few hours ago responded specifically to the current situation; this is completely unnecessary, and it is precisely the serious violation of the rights of the targeted Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-04-92	Thank you very much, Mr. András Schiffer. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now I give the floor to the first independent Member, Member Gábor Fodor, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-09-04-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, on behalf of the Liberals, to give some thought to the subject in question, and, of course, as my fellow Members have done so, I also try to comment on the whole issue, the whole issue, and on the issue of asylum, as the proposed bill also concerns the operation and authorisation of the police and the military. Well, I would like to begin by saying that we liberals, of course, are of the opinion that none of the proposals put forward by the government today have been eligible, but on a slightly different basis than what has been said here in this House. First of all, I would like to point out two points to your attention, which, in our view, are not eligible for proposals, and the government is on the wrong track. One aspect is that, as the government deals with the refugee issue, which others have already mentioned, most recently, Mr András Schiffer, Group leader, is not a humane solution, especially a mood for refugees, he sets them in a particularly negative way, as it was during the poster campaign, and a wrong, wrong, wrong way. This solution is neither civilised nor humane, even if it is possible to take measures in which we can argue and which we think may be agreed, there may be some who disagree with it. Let's just say you can argue about setting up a fence, you can convince each other normally, you might need it, you might not need it. That's what you can argue about in a reasonable way. What we can't do is criminalize people, make them a potential target, make them a scapegoat because they're refugees. This is unacceptable. So for us, because the government has set foot on this path, the whole package is unacceptable, among other things. Another important aspect, which my fellow Members once again mentioned in this debate, is that I can again refer to Mr András Schiffer, partly Szilárd Németh, but Ádám Mirkóczki mentioned this, this is the foreign policy context of the whole issue, or, if I may say so, the essence of it. We do not support the government's proposals because we believe that the government is also on the wrong track in the area, that it is not seeking to create a single European Union position, but is pursuing a separate policy. The fact that he is pursuing a separate policy is, of course, not a moral category, not a sin, it can be good, it can be right, but at the moment the unity of the Union is crucial. What we need to see - and I think we all see this, whether the speakers speak of a pro-government side or of an opposition side - is that what we are in, this whole problem, the whole wave of refugees, is indeed the most serious challenge for the Union for the last few years, decades and for the period ahead. It is clear that the European Union cannot accept refugees in this number. So you have to deal with this question. Impossible. Hungary cannot accept this large number of refugees, nor can the Union. We need to find civilised rules on who can really come and really enter, and who can't, and we really need a clean speech in this. This is not easy to achieve in the EU, since 28 countries need to coordinate their different interests and positions. But Hungary should not be aware that it is going against the EU, presenting a proposal for a resolution in which the European Union is listed as responsible, as a scapegoat for the whole emerging situation, but that Hungary should strive to do everything in its power to achieve a united European Union position, even if it is tortured and bitter. Because if there is no unified EU position, then we are basically pushing water to the detriment of those to whom this whole terrible crisis seems to be favourable, because they can fish in confusion. Because what's really behind the whole problem? We talked about a lot of things here, some who condemned the Union. It is possible to criticise the Union, I believe, on a number of issues, that this criticism may be justified, but it is not the European Union that is fundamentally responsible for this situation. [[14.50]] There are people here who have whipped the United States of America, see the speakers of Jobbik and LMP. Of course, the United States of America is also to blame, but the United States of America is not responsible for this situation. Anyone who is fundamentally responsible for it, and for whom this whole situation is good, is the Islamic State at the moment and radical Islamic fundamentalism, which is the most challenging challenge for the whole world at the moment. That is why every suggestion is justified, all criticism to Jobbik's representatives, who, in recent years, have repeatedly expressed their sympathy for Islam and allow for Islam. Of course, you don't have to demonize Islam. So make no mistake, this is about radical religious fundamentalism, a political form of which is the most serious challenge today not only for the country but also for the world, for the whole European Union. So here's the basic problem of the Islamic State. So it is not wrong to look for scapegoats, so the Union is not the scapegoat, we must not condemn the Union, it is not the European Union that caused this situation. At the moment, the Union cannot find the way, it cannot find the answer. The United States of America is not the scapegoat, because, in the spirit of a value-oriented policy, it was not for dictators, which many criticized at the time, even during the Arab Spring, but instead tried to help democratic processes. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Some were successful, see Tunisia, some were not successful. So it's not the United States of America's fault, the Islamic State is the basic problem here, the Islamic State that pursues an anti-human anti-civilization policy. We know what you're doing to those citizens who come under your authority, and we know what terrible cruelty you're dealing with these unfortunate people. [[It's constant noise.]] And we know that, in essence, this thinking, mentality, which represents the Islamic State, is a threat to Western civilization in its entirety, to Western civilization, which is a valuable asset for many of us in this House. So this is the basic problem, ladies and gentlemen, that is what is behind the whole question. Of course, you can dig deeper, but I do not want to go any deeper in this debate. But one thing is certain, I do not think that we should misjudge the starting point, and that we should not wrongly make anyone a scapegoat. That is why I think that this proposal by the Government to condemn the European Union, which is also one of the things that we say no to, is wrong. So basically, I would like to emphasise once again that the two reasons for the "not" position on our part, on the part of the liberals, on the one hand, are that it demonizes people, makes them scapegoats that are unacceptable and unforgivable, which mainly concerns the majority of refugees. The other is that it does not seek to create a united position by the Union, and this united position is in some way a force, a political force, but also a separate policy, thereby contributing to the Union's disorientation, to the Union's disorientation. But in this political situation, in this situation, it is, as far as possible, the worst possible choice. Well, what do we think we should do in this situation? Firstly, we liberals have made a number of proposals in the past, and I would like to refer to them. Although I must say, once again, these proposals are such that there are emotions in this House, in this debate, and, of course, as in every political debate, simplification is often present. In my view, there are a number of issues where there could be much more common positions, even between the government side and the opposition, on a number of issues. Our proposals are also proposals that have been proposed from either the government side or from the opposition parties' side. First of all, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to increase the administration and administrative capacity in the field of asylum, precisely to give these people a humane and fair trial. [[Dr. Vas Imre: That's what the law is about!]] I would like to emphasise once again that we all know that the majority of refugees cannot be accepted, neither Hungary nor the Union can accept them, but these people have the right to a fair trial. Indeed, the situation, which has already been mentioned here, within the walls of this House, I would like to refer once more to it, Mr Schiffer, Group Leader, has spoken about this; it is not a humane procedure to train refugees all over, they think that they are going to Vienna and stopping at Bicska's. This situation cannot be accepted. It's not acceptable. There is no set of values that make this acceptable behavior. On the other hand, we believe that it would be necessary to create decent reception centres and we, for our part, support them. Among other things, I think that this could be the way to achieve consistency within the EU, because there is a clear debate about EU policy, a part of the EU countries is in favour of the quota system, and the other part is arguing that this position is correct. We don't know if there's going to be a common platform here, maybe. But what could form a common platform is precisely the creation of major and large reception centres, in Greece, Turkey and outside the EU, but also in Greece, Italy and Hungary, at the Hungarian border, where refugees can be received under civilised conditions, and under civilised conditions, a significant part of refugees can be decided on who can get refugee status and who can be accepted as refugees and who is not. So we need to be clear about this. We believe that this point is correct on the part of the Union. We believe that this is the platform where a common position could be established, and the Hungarian Government should strive in international fora to do so by all means, so that the Union can act as a united political force. I would stress once again that if the Islamic State has an interest, if it has an interest in radical fundamentalism, religious fundamentalism, which is attacking the Western world, it is, among other things, to be a divided European Union, and Hungary must see this situation with a sharp eye and must not contribute to this development. By the way, continuing our proposals, we ourselves believe that the government's relations with the various social organisations, who are helping to solve this crisis with heroic work, are inadequate, and I would like to thank them in particular for this place. Several NGOs, a number of church organizations, and many of them are civilian helpers, volunteers, helping them somehow to create humane conditions for the unfortunate refugees. Because it should not be forgotten that many of them are truly unfortunate people, whose difficulties, vulnerability, are exploited by unscrupulous people, see the dramatic story of 71 dead in Austria, in the closed refrigerator. So the government needs to improve its relationship, rely much more on civil society organisations. We would also consider it important that there should be fair information and fair communication to refugees, because it is unacceptable that it remains essentially for civil society organisations. So the government does not make any effort to provide these people with proper information in the appropriate language. I would like to emphasise once again that we can still argue on a number of issues, whether extending the various rights of the military and the police, which is not from the devil again, because in a crisis situation, it can be possible, well-founded, even such a request. But it is not acceptable that we do not stand on this issue in the greatest and most powerful, most obvious humane way possible, and we do not try to give help to everyone who really needs it, who is worthy and worthy of it under the laws and international rules. By the way, these rules aren't some sort of inventional rule. Everyone who knows about asylum knows that there are international standards for this, they exist, and Hungary has applied them for many years and decades on the issue of refugees. Both the UN and the European Union have existing and functioning rules on who can be accepted as refugees, on the basis of which status refugees can be accepted. If the Union wants to make this change, it can also be the platform for a joint action, it can also be changed, and new rules can be created here too. But for example, the Hungarian government should be at the forefront of such matters to make a joint proposal in these cases, trying to bring the European Union together in favour of such positions. It should not be at the forefront of adopting a proposal for a parliamentary decision to condemn the European Union and how it makes the Union a scapegoat. We think this is the wrong way. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we liberals do not support these proposals. But once again, I think it is very important that we turn to one another with proper understanding, because this is the most serious political challenge for Hungary and for the European Union in the coming years, which, of course, is not easy to find a good answer from one moment to the next. But once again, we should not demonize each other, not just the Union and the United States, but also each other, but we should try to find a common platform. Thank you for your attention. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] [[15.00]]
u2015-09-04-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Fodor. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-04-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to point out to Mr András Schiffer that the statistics presented by my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Kárpát Z, that about 80 percent of the immigrants arriving are young men, the data of the Immigration and Nationality Office has been confirmed, and Eurostat statistics have reported a similar rate, so we can consider this to be credible, I think. I would also like to respond to Mr Mátyás Firtl, very much in agreement that the protection of Hungarian language and Hungarian culture must also be an important aspect of immigration. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Rózsa Hoffmann, your fellow Member and fellow political group, spoke about the next major challenge of the education system as an integrated education for migrant children coming here as a result of migration. If integrated education is considered to be a major challenge, this shows that large numbers are expected here, at least this statement by Rózsa Hoffmann means this, and on the other hand, I find it a mistake professionally to have children who do not even know English integrated into the schools of Hungarian children, and to try to teach and teach in this way. In addition to language barriers, teachers who have not met such children in their careers, or come out of college or university as young people, are obviously not trained to do this pedagogically, so this would be a very professional mistake. Obviously, that can't happen. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It is also very talkative that the Klebelsberg Institutional Center has forbidden schools to comment on the situation that Minister Zoltán Balog has already appointed to try to educate these children in some way. I think this is a wrong way, and that cannot be allowed. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-96	Welcome to my fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr Schiffer András in two minutes.
u2015-09-04-97	Thank you very much. I continue to maintain that the situation seems to be an accurate picture that, on the one hand, those who have passed through Hungary, those who have registered, and those who are now sitting here, for example, in the capital, exactly what their composition is: where they came from, what motivations they have. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Everyone cries, we know! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] This knowledge, this knowledge is lacking, just as there is no accurate information about the composition, origin and motivation of those on their way to the Carpathian Basin. I think that this assessment is essential for dealing with the situation. I would just like to point out that with regard to children, I think that whatever percentage we are talking about, humane treatment is extremely important. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: What about our children?]] I would also like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Fodor, on two things. One is that he was talking about an attack on Western civilization in relation to the Islamic State. I would like to point out that the Islamic State is not only threatening Western civilization, because when old Mesopotamian memories are destroyed there, they are not threatening Western civilization. And my second point is that I think we should get off this trip now that the dissemination of democracy is something of the above-mentioned good. I think that the great powers should stop spreading democracy, because you can see here is an example of where it leads when a great power of a culture thinks that it wants to organize the whole world according to its own standards; the result is here on our necks. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-98	I now give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd in a normal time frame.
u2015-09-04-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I listened with interest to the speech of the President of the Liberal Party and thought there were many positive elements, but I think that what the Member said was fundamentally wrong. In the beginning, I think that there is a huge difference between the refugee and the illegal immigrant, and not only do we make a difference, but also the law makes a difference, and politics makes a difference, the only problem is that this is washed up. When we talk about the failed immigration policy of the European Union and individual EU Member States, it is a form of population policy, because, let us say, Germany lacks a quarter of a million workers. So in order for the German economy to develop sustainably, at least according to today's calculations, let's say, based on a GDP-based calculation, 250 thousand people are missing there every year. This is German immigration policy, their own policy - solve it! But it cannot be taught to other EU countries. And I think that this is the fundamental reason for the tension and the tension, because that is why the Chancellor once says that we will now suspend the Dublin Convention, and then the next day he says that we will not suspend it, and I call the Hungarians' attention to the fact that they will not dare to send people here without documents. Basically, it's a contradiction. But beyond that, even the deception stops here, because ZDF television plays the same movie in one single report. So the same document... Don't even call it a documentary, so in the same propaganda film, Hungarians are beaten and beaten because they let the train go, so to speak, and therefore they violate the Dublin Convention, and second, they show the unfortunate people who are lying down somewhere, protesting or beating something or throwing food and drink out the window of the train, why they don't start it any further. So I think there are basic problems. At the same time, it wasn't nice to hear about the interregnum... So it's like interregnum is good. 'Cause I think there's regulation, you have to follow this regulation. It is very simple: there is Schengen regulation and there is the Dublin Convention. And as long as this doesn't change, it's not good in itself, it's clear, it's clear that it doesn't play, so it's broken, it's got to be fixed, it's got to be done, or something has to be done with it, but if we throw it all away, then Europe will be completely torn apart. So in order not to have a Berlin wall or not to be a border lock again, or to come up with a situation like that at the beginning of the week on the M1 motorway, it is necessary for Hungary to be able to defend its own borders, which are also Schengen borders, and we represent this. And that's why the government submitted the amendment to the ten laws, and that's why we submitted the amendment to these three laws, because it's the first. I don't know how our fellow Member Schiffer feels about finding out who he is if they don't talk to us. So when we talk about criminalizing immigrants, that's not true, that's not true at all. By the way, in order to gain the status of refugee status under the Geneva Convention, they have a duty to cooperate. But who, on the one hand, has already removed this duty of cooperation or is lying all over again, because here in front of me, I apologize, but I wanted to explain this in any way, not because of such a polarity, but I would have liked to have said a few things for us to see clearly, but at the joint meeting of the National Security Committee and the Defence Committee, which was a four-hour meeting, it would have been nice if we could have talked about professional issues, some of us wanted to push this, but also the lozunges, and I don't know what the ground was for, and we practically had to close the committee meeting. But we didn't ask the secret services there, which I did afterwards, because I graduated from the Constitutional Protection Office, and I asked them, based on the obligation to the secret service, the acquittal, when the procedures started, and they had to do interviews, interviews based on which a sociometric and risk analysis could be carried out, based on what experience they had, and, yes, I've compiled a few things, and there are some very tough things. One point is that 98 percent of the migrants heard - but mostly those who claim to be Syrians - so 98 percent do not know at all or do not want to present any documents to justify their own nationality - here, we are not talking about origin. And for some reason, the Syrians have multiplied since they claimed to be Syrians since the announcement. So we are faced with a real problem here, and there are good theories, and there is a possibility that we can and must take a philosophical approach to the issue, but at present I think it is more pressing than that. [[15.10]] And I do not think that the laws before us would be against the Fundamental Law or any international treaty or against any kind of moral law. So I'm convinced it's okay. But let me just say one thing, I'm sorry. I don't want to go too long, not in detail, but in the opinion of the professionals, and I'm surprised that those who have higher education have already come, or their relatives have already come, and that's why they want to go to Germany, because they usually settled in Germany. And there's a multiplying number that every single person who crosses the border will drag six or eight more people along in the coming period. And now those who have a lower education, are not qualified or are completely uneducated. There are very serious risks here from experts who have been doing this for a long time, and they are doing the audition work that they have to do on the basis of international protocols. They say that it will obviously make social integration difficult, and we know that very well, there is no need to explain this specifically, but there is an increase in exposure to the extremist organisations of immigrants. Organized criminals are catching these people sooner, even on the way here, of course. You'll get a job, work for me, you'll have to take these packages back and forth, and you'll get the money I'll take you across the border, and then you'll get $50. And if you're gonna be any more involved, we're gonna pay for that. Then they talk about epidemiological risks, because these people come from areas where public health there has not been organised or has not been in place for a long time. And what is very important is that experts also say that in Hungary the influence of the Islamic community is relatively low and that it can also increase their numbers, influence and function in the negative direction. And that increases the risk of public safety and terror. I'm telling you, the staff of the Constitutional Protection Office are willing to say this in an open session, so that's why I was afraid to say it. Obviously, I can't account for numbers, but in an open session these information, these interviews make it clear to everyone that the game here doesn't work out, so we don't have to solve a philosophical problem here, but a very real problem and a very hard one for us. We will solve this - I said it very nicely again, but this solution will not be 100%, it will not be complete, we also assume that if we have the border closure, we have the technical content, we have the human resources to cover it, which is why, among other things, the Defence Act has been amended or the police law, we will assign the money to it, and otherwise we will cooperate in the European Union, or we will cooperate with the organisations, the United Nations, with which we need to deal with this issue, even to the extent that we have resolved our situation within our borders, and we have stopped them, but the next step towards completeness is to resolve the Islamic State, if we solve the economic, social disaster caused by the Arab Spring, among other things. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2015-09-04-100	I now give the floor to Mr President Novak in a normal time frame.
u2015-09-04-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. å Don't take our Hungarian soldiers abroad, take the foreigners away from us. Minister, please answer us your opinion on this claim of 12 points of the young people in March. What we see is that in the name of Hungarian soldiers they are very beautiful, but in Afghanistan, Iraq and who knows where they are performing, as you say, a mission, even though this is a mockery of this beautiful word, because they are actually involved in occupations, but in no way they are defending the country. I don't know how many people are in Afghanistan right now, I know that 116 people are currently serving in Iraq, and where else throughout the world, on the altar of various great powers, they are sacrificing their lives, and in this context I think that Minister has something to account for, especially in the spirit of this demand of 12 points of the young people of March. How can they celebrate young men in March when this demand is being trampled on? However, let us approach the whole serious crisis from the point of view of the national cooperation that Jobbik is pushing in this crisis, and with this rise let me begin by saying that when you raised the idea of building a fence, I said that I would put my hat on. We didn't even think about it, or even if it did, we wouldn't have the guts to come up with something like that. We may have hesitated to put up any fence on the Trianon border for us, but it is a painful emotional question, perhaps even more painful than it is for many other parties, for us goodies, who particularly bear the fate of foreign Hungarians. However, it may be because of this hesitation, but the government has prevented us from suggesting it. So in this case, we're not saying that it's a better demand that the government made later, no, the government was right before us, and so I'm telling you, I'm gonna take my hat off. That's what I'm saying here, even now, when it comes to the fact that you're using the military, I think you're both hesitant and late. On the other hand, the Jobbik beat you to it when we suggested that this is the only place that can help us. However, it does not matter what task they will perform. I must also add that it has been six months since we initiated a signature collection in order to restore the border guards that Jobbik has long been demanding. With the signature and vote of hundreds of thousands of people, he supported the initiative to restore the independent border guard and not to accept the support of immigrants called economic refugees. The costs of this cannot be borne by the Hungarian State, even if we are obviously guided by humane considerations, but we cannot accept the difficulties of the whole world. However, allow me to make two more proposals after it appears that our proposal to deploy the military has been taken into account. There are two other options that you should take to heart. One of these may be the use of a considerable part of the Parliamentary Guard where much more is needed than the most modern tasers with which László Kövér's guard, his private army, was actually equipped. Here in Parliament, I think the past decades have proved that there is no need for this kind of arming of the Parliamentary Guard. But this stock of assets and this staff would also need a significant part of it at the borders. Therefore, I think it is time to consider this proposal. As it would have been time, in a manner similar to the Hungarian Guard, even with a state initiative... - because we have waited for this and, in the absence of this, we have also established the Hungarian Guard, because it would have been necessary already that the Hungarian Guard could normally be used for voluntary tasks under government control, control, authority control and supervision, especially in the year of volunteering, in which they are able to perform public tasks, whether by sacrificing their free time, in the interest of the community. However, this would require openness that we could not see from your government, from Gyurcsány, Bajnai, but unfortunately also from your government. You have further tightened up the various laws to try to make such voluntary organisation impossible. They've gone so far that they've already punished the activities of maintaining public safety, so if anyone dares to patrol. However, I think that not only the red sludge disaster, the dam constructions, but also precisely the current crisis shows that there is a need for some kind of voluntary force in Hungary. That is why we want our proposals to be taken into consideration in a real national cooperation. Because now we have to decide whether or not to close our borders or - like Ildikó Vida - ask for an interpreter. And indeed, it is not so much a joke that we can become a minority in our own country, even by the end of the century, but if this is the way things are going, much sooner. [[15.20]] And not only because there is a threat of a population explosion of Gypsyism, not only because 1 million Hungarian workers of active age have already gone to the West as economic refugees and moved away with a minimal chance of moving back to Hungary, whether he or his family, but also because already this year three times as many alien immigrants have arrived in Hungary as the number of Hungarian citizens are born. And then I did not even make a distinction between children belonging to different minorities, such as Gypsy children and Hungarian children. We are talking about Hungarian citizens, and at least three times the number of aliens who are immigrants to Hungary this year. In view of all this, I think we can say that the white man is also dying out. This is not only a Hungarian problem, but a pan-European problem. So the white man is also dying, not just the white shark, to mention just one animal species with many white names here. But if we are afraid of the accusation of racism, then we should only push for the survival of the latter endangered species. For example, as the news headline of one of the mainstream media headlines say, the great white shark is threatened by extinction, but I fear only the shark, not the cheap accusations. Therefore, as Chairman of the Parliament's Population Sub-Committee, I will also ring the alarm bell for the dying white man. The reason why we have to stop the migrant tsunami is because, like Indians, we can move to reservations in the foreseeable future. That is why we also need to talk about exactly what tasks the government would like to use the defence for. In the autumn of 2006, we saw what the police were capable of, but we cannot see this from the current police when it is necessary to reverse illegal immigrants. In a humiliating way, they're standing on a wall of ornaments at the fences, and as some kind of receptionist service, they're bringing in the inbounds, the immigrants, instead of turning them around. And we fear that this - in the case of soldiers, we can rightly say - would also have a humiliating role for Hungarian soldiers, if the government had not changed the current border, if it were possible to call this fake fence at all. Therefore, it would be necessary to disperse mass and to use means of reversal, but not just means of killing human life, but also to instruct the military to use it so that we can really stop this immigrant cunami. And if the immigrants did not accept this, but attacked the Hungarian police, the Hungarian soldiers, they would have to defend themselves even with a sharp weapon. This should be ensured. This must be pointed out in advance before the first disaster occurs, because we can see how much fear exists among Hungarian police officers about the use of weapons, especially after the various liberal governments. It is therefore important to face the fact that if we do not change the current situation, in which the government has actually made a large transit zone from all over the country, then we now face a problem covering Hungary, where all rural settlements are threatened, not only Martonfa, but also a settlement of 200 people. The entire country is threatened by the kind of resettlement policy the government is pursuing. After all, the fact that schools are already being assigned to education for the children of immigrants, the fact that 59 000 workers are granted work permits on the basis of a ministerial decision is that by building various new and new resettlement camps, by opening up family support, they are being tried to stay here, and by force now, but they are being detained here, they are not allowed to go on - once they have been admitted, and would be justified - this all shows that the government is pursuing the resettlement policy. That is why we would like to protest against government resettlement policy with such banners. [[It shows a tablet with the following words: Invisible migrants, Ebola, dysentery, AIDS, pulmonary disease]] with which we would like to draw attention tomorrow to the health disaster that threatens Hungary in our demonstration to be held in front of the Ministry of Home Affairs from 15:00. And I really think it would be good for everyone to take to heart this health disaster that we would like to draw attention to at our demonstration tomorrow in front of the Ministry of the Interior. It is also the responsibility of the government to continue the resettlement of immigrants. We would like an answer - so we would like to put pressure on the government at tomorrow's demonstration if we do not get an answer today - who is responsible for the failure of the fence. They promised that the fence to be built by the end of August would be a serious solution, a serious deterrent, a fraction of the number of immigrants will fall to Hungary, and bypass routes will be created. On the other hand, a fence in which gates are being built, where the police will only bring him in standing, is actually invited and then registered - so that they can then be deported to Hungary - immigrants who will not need some levy in the West, well, I think that this policy is unacceptable. The government must abandon its resettlement policy. And I very much hope that, not only by abusing the closing word, as we can often see from government politicians, but in the spirit of national cooperation, we can have a meaningful dialogue to answer what they think about the demand of young people in March, that our Hungarian soldiers should not be taken abroad and that foreigners should be taken away from us. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-102	Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out that, according to the current rules, the rules of the illustration are broken, and I will be obliged to inform the Speaker of the House. [[Novak Előd: Don't do it!]] Thank you very much. We now have Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány in a normal time frame. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2015-09-04-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Colleagues, Gentlemen! Dear fellow Members, Well, I would have a reason and perhaps a vocabulary to whip the government, but I won't, not because I want to protect them - and you - from the edge of my criticism and emotion, but because I think that we wouldn't go too far with each other, of course. I don't think you're affected by what we're saying here. These illusions are gone. I'm just trying to make a point. But also - and I'm not going too far - because you obviously know what the Prime Minister has been negotiating over the past day and a half and what the reactions have been. I do not want to overdo it, but if I understand what happened, you are as alone in the European Union as we say, as my pinky. The Prime Minister of Hungary has never conducted such negotiations behind closed doors - you obviously know how I know - as your Prime Minister did yesterday in Brussels with the President of the Commission, its Presidents and the President of Parliament. The Hungarian-German relationship system was never so low as it is now. It was never so threatened by the complete disruption of the otherwise traditionally and historically excellent Hungarian-Austrian relations; you have obviously heard what the Austrian Chancellor said. That really is quite a Bornír, and they are right to say that what the Luxembourg Foreign Minister has made to the Hungarian Prime Minister is offensive, and I will not even recall it, because although I am arguing with the Hungarian Prime Minister at a thousand points, what he has received from them may be an exaggeration. So we do have something to discuss. Although I hear my better fellow Member talking on many occasions about some kind of national agreement in this matter, well look, ladies and gentlemen... [[Novák Előd: Entrepreneurship! It's not that hard to learn.]] Your primitiveness, sir, knows no bounds, but obviously there are voters standing at your level who accept this primitiveness. I'm not one of them. But you'll deal with your conscience. [[Previous Novak: Is it so hard to learn that it is a national collaboration?]] I would like to say that in order to have a national cooperation on important matters, to be able to understand - and this is an important matter - we should be able to establish a relationship between you and us in which, at least, we do not question the right to human, political and moral existence of each other. [[The First of Novak: Watch! Ethical class is coming!]] For example, we do not create a constitution from which our political opponents are called criminals for some historical reasons. [[15.30]] And then we're in trouble because you've eroded the basic moral, trust relationship that we would need to have in order to be able to communicate with each other on such a serious matter so that we can at least partially put our interests of power back. You have lost this opportunity, so we will be able to have a rather poor and medium-quality debate here in this House. Will we be able to defend our borders, Secretary of State? I think it's not, and I'm sorry to say it. You can set up a fence, police force, if necessary, in Hungarian territory. I'm sure Secretary of State Répássy knows, better than I do, that this is your profession, that by the time these people reach the fence, they have crossed the Hungarian border. Am I right? There, from that moment on, the Hungarian government has an obligation even if they are on the other side of the fence; it is Hungarian land. You are proud of every square meter of Hungarian soil with more passion than I am, I am rational in this, but my rationality tells me that those who have entered Hungary - and these immigrants are entering Hungary - are the only thing that the Hungarian state has to do against them: carry out a fair asylum procedure. And if I ventured to the point of not hurting the Prime Minister, who is definitely not my favorite politician, I will now go further and commend him. I think he was more insightful than most of us, because he said earlier this year, very early in the spring, that this is going to be a big problem. I'll admit, I didn't think it was gonna be this bad at the time. But if you did, and you saw, the reports and the analysis were good, and you sensed more what was waiting for us, then tell me, why didn't you come to the conclusion that this was something to be prepared for? There's no story, there's going to be a flood of people that we have an obligation to do. Today you referred to the Geneva Convention, Schengen and others. They didn't do anything. You have done one thing: you have started building the fear of Hungarian people, running a race with Jobbik. I don't know if it's going to bring you any political benefits. For a long time, I thought, yes, now I think you've pushed this thing too far, and I think it's going to take it from you, but that's your problem. I think that the government that knows that it needs to prepare for a hundred thousand refugee waves here will begin to prepare for their reception, yes, with decent camps, yes, with increased asylum, immigration apparatus, office, yes, with enough tolms, psychologists and many others - that is what I think. But you didn't do that, you didn't do anything, you woke up fear in us, in the Hungarian population, and then when there was enough fear, you built a useless fence. Well, I don't know where the bill is now, I guess, for a couple of ten billion. Tell me, gentlemen, how many decent, normal camps and beds could have been built from this! ? Tell me! My colleagues here in front of me say they don't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our duty. It is important to decide whether we will remain a part of this European human world, which, for example, at least for Syrian refugees, says that they come from a civil war world; they are certainly not economic refugees and the majority of refugees are Syrians, it is true for Afghans and much more. Then let's get ready for what we're going to do to them, you did nothing. I don't want to anecdote, but let me make a very short comment. My colleague György Kakuk has been on this route for the past few weeks. He was in Belgrade on the same day as the real star of Belgrade football, Dinamo Belgrade He had a very important match. Like our fradist ultras, they're gathering somewhere, it's like they're in their usual place in front of the Main Station in Belgrade. I don't know them personally, but judging from home football, I can imagine what kind of guys they are. As with us, refugees are gathering in the vicinity of the railway station. And do you think there was only one bad word between ultras and refugees? Was there only one atrocity? No, it wasn't. I don't know why, but I think it's certainly part of this story that the Belgrade government doesn't incite the population, but tries to make them understand. A medium-quality advertisement may be shown in front of the Ministry of Interior, we have just heard here, but the Hungarian Prime Minister did the same in his interview this morning, if I have heard correctly: the fear of refugees will turn to the next stage. Although we do not have a single public health and epidemiological record that the health status, the risk of infection of those arriving here is higher than that of the residents, we do not have such data - you are supervising this institution - but the Prime Minister is now running in competition with Jobbik, starting to fear that they are patients, perhaps even lepers, and perhaps even ebolacies, and that you should not dare to sit down on the tram, because if there was a refugee there, you shouldn't accidentally use a public phone, because if you were hired by a refugee to help them out in the East, because maybe you would get an infection, and now everyone should sooner or later go out on the street, because there are those refugees who are at risk of infection. Honestly, I find that very unscrupulous. Again, this could bring you support, perhaps. I hope Hungary is more mature; unfortunately, many will believe this. I don't want us to live in a country where we don't see the image of ourselves in these people, I don't want to. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It's worship.]] You consider yourselves a Christian party, you say you are an appreciative party, and one of the most decisive values is their Christian beliefs. Your radical right-wing opposition, which causes me to struggle, goes so far as to cross the country. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: Scandalous!]] Still, do you not think that the Creator is in all of us? Do you not think that we are all the result of the will declared by the Creator? Don't you think the Creator doesn't want to distinguish between us? I ask you, as a non-practicing Christian, not to be ironic with you, not to mock your religious beliefs. I would like to ask you if you can see the image of the Creator God in all people, regardless of who or what you are and whether you feel that you have an obligation to them. [[Previous Novak: The regular wager has spoken!]] If they feel it, they may be Christians, but then they shouldn't be like this. If you don't feel it, don't lie to me. Christianity is not a political weapon to convince voters. [[Interjection from Jobbik: Creator God!]] And while I am at it, and I have set this example, I agree with a comment from my colleague Szabolcs Kerék-Bárczy today: your fence is a symbol of the Christ's thorn crown. You are about as Christian as Christians put that particular thorn wreath on Christ's head. If I were you, I would at least think, and agree with your honoured Csaba Böjte, and I would certainly agree with your very, very respected Pope Francis; he is not doing what you are doing. Let me make one more comment before my time runs out. I'm not a very good defense expert, although I suspect, fellow state secretary, that neither are you. [[Forebod Novak: You can only shoot civilians! Defiance.]] I think that the ability of the Hungarian Defense to do what they were trained to do is not what you want to use it for. The Hungarian Defence Forces have been trained to defend their country in armed threats, using their own armed capabilities. They're not trained to disperse for example, it's none of their business. What are these people gonna do there? What? They're planning to send three and a half thousand men on average. So? That doesn't mean they won't come into the border in a perfectly natural way. [[15.40]] I see this thing as infinitely inhuman and unnecessary. We don't bet on each other in Parliament because it's not the same genre, but I'd be very, very surprised if the refugee pressure that we're wearing now would change that. You will meet the demands of one of the rival parties, you do not want to fall behind in this competition, you will certainly also meet the demands of a number of Hungarian citizens, and I do not dispute it. But, you know, there are a series of times when you have to tell voters and rivals that you are wrong; that this is not the case when your solution leads to purpose. I would encourage the deployed soldiers to remain true to their oaths, to take care of themselves, not just their oaths, but their own human integrity. Don't get involved in an adventure that will seal their lives for life and put their country in trouble. I'm not encouraging them to disobey orders. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Lucky!]] But not to lose your humanity, because I'm afraid if you do, you're going to put them in a position where they'll be threatened from time to time. A few hours ago, my colleagues say that the Orbán procession - a footpath from the Keleti railway station, a crowd of civilians are trying to help them at least have water. Look: In '56 the people's will broke down the fence, in '89 he broke down the fence, if a few tens of thousands of people gather here, he's going to tear it down! There is no strong government that can resist this because the order of life is stronger than the order of a violent government. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds. Dr. Robert Répássy: But the fence is behind them, not in front of them!]]
u2015-09-04-104	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Member István Szávay in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-09-04-105	Thank you very much. A betterman's representative always needs a great deal of self-discipline when he wants to respond to Ferenc Gyurcsány, or at all... [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Practice!]] It's a difficult task, that's right. I'll do it. This is particularly true now when things are being said which the Prime Minister has just said, who looks back on Jobbik's representatives. I would like to reassure you that this reaction is completely mutual on our part. Prime Minister, what you've told me is some incredible high school of hypocrisy. You are talking about morality, moral existence, who did not sign himself into the Hungarian history books with the performance of the Prime Minister, but by telling the autumn lie speech that he did. He entered himself in the Hungarian history books by beating Hungarian people by firing the eyes of protestors against your system at your command. He wrote himself in the history books by having a party campaign of unparalleled hatred against one third of our nation. And you have the nerve to stand up in the Hungarian Parliament and pronounce the sentence that it is unscrupulous to frighten refugees! Shame on you. When your government, in December 2004 and before that, spoke of not paying our dreams because of the deteriorating housing situation, giving up our dreams, paying taxes and pensions instead of others, when you were alarming 23 million Romanians, you would have thought that maybe for half a sentence, if you hadn't apologized and followed the millions that you had hurt deeply and often, you would have practiced at least a minimum level of self-criticism. Then at least you will remember the words and actions that you and your government, your representatives, did at that time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I do not wish to argue that you are right about whether or not to intimidate refugees. We did not scare refugees, we would like to draw attention to problems. You're the ones who scared me, and you're the ones who ran a hate campaign back in the day, 7-8 years ago. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-04-106	I give the floor to Congressman László Varju for a two-minute comment.
u2015-09-04-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member has now allowed himself sentences that, I think, are outrageous and clearly to be rejected. I think Jobbik needs self-criticism. [[István Apáti: What?]] primarily because in a situation where many, many people are coming to Hungary for help, you have just spoken about it, perhaps in person, Mr President, that you would be able to issue a shot order at any moment. You've been apologizing to me before, apologizing that maybe this won't be necessary, but we're confident that such acts won't be necessary. Well, honourable Member, it is you who have no moral opportunity and no reason to call anyone to account for the protection of Hungary. Members and supporters of the Democratic Coalition and its president have always done their best. What you are lying about is your responsibility, especially at a time of crisis. There is a crisis, that is what we have heard, and many people have said it, and the last few days have proved that this crisis has been caused by the behaviour of the government. And the attitude of the government in this regard is unforgivable, even if we have to pay much more attention to the fact that at least a glass of water, a word of friendship, is a good word for those people who have arrived in Hungary today, because we all know that they are moving on from Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-09-04-108	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2015-09-04-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This is not how I wanted to start this speech, but I have no choice but to do so after these speeches which have been made before me. Even on the part of László Varju, although I do not wish to deal with him particularly, because I understand, he rubs up against the President, and I do not wish to respond to his lies. [[László Varju: Try it anyway, Congressman.]] But Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech was an absolute outrage to me. Ferenc Gyurcsány speaks of moral issues, condemning power efforts. The Ferenc Gyurcsány, whom Krisztina Morvai simply calls demented Nero who was here in the country... [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Who is he? Morvai?]] Crazy, please. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Is there such a thing?]] It happens! It happens! [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Politician?]] It happens! [[Complaining from Jobbik's benches: Are you ill?]] Wow, you're a little red. Whatever. Let's keep talking. [[István Apáti: Blood pressure lowering in this House! Laszlo Varju: Take it in!]] So Ferenc Gyurcsány talks about the condemnation of power efforts and moral issues, and he talks about 1956, who had Hungarians shot 50 years after the 1956 War of Independence in Hungary. He's the one who dares to talk about anything here! [[Laszlo Varju: Don't lie!]] This Ferenc Gyurcsány tells us to realize that we are isolated, we are alone. Well, it must have been a very serious prime minister who didn't realize that we were alone until now, because our friends, their friends, who have been cheated out of the country with his family, his henchmen and his buddies, they've been... [[László Varju: Is that what you get for refugees?]] - they have seen us as a colony, and they have played an exact role in the last 25 years that Hungary is in the position it is in. So much for that, by the way, because I think this dwarf party called DK [[László Varju intervenes.]] I don't think we should mention it anymore. [[István Apáti: Nano pair!]] By the way, with regard to moral issues, I'd like to add only one piece of information to the House. I asked in this House how much people work in Parliament, since this is our job. I asked who was in the Parliament's meeting room in one year, until March 2015. I'm just giving you some approximate data. Say, Csaba Gyüre, a representative of Jobbik, spent 220 hours and 13 minutes in this one year, during the same period Ferenc Gyurcsány spent 7 hours and 17 minutes. That's all he spent in the Parliament building. [[László Varju intervenes.]] And how many times he's spoken. But let's keep going. I feel that the Movement for Jobbik Hungary is the only constructive opposition in this debate and on this issue. [[László Varju: Shoot!]] help the government, try... Mr. President, may I ask you to tell these two people to be quiet a little bit, because it's difficult to talk to the others. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Ferenc Gyurcsány: Focus!]]
u2015-09-04-110	Yes, I would also like to ask for DK's representative, László Varju [[István Apáti: Guard!]] Please don't yell at me. Someone else has heard your opinion. [[Laszlo Varju: Good!]] respect the views of the other Members. Thank you. [[László Varju: Thank you, Mr President.]]
u2015-09-04-111	Now, maybe we'll keep the yelling a little quieter, so I'll keep going. [[László Varju: Try it!]] I therefore feel that we are the only ones who are trying to take part in this debate as a constructive opposition and, by the way, in creating this law. My fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki, has already spoken about this. Therefore, I want you to believe that the criticisms that we are putting forward will indeed be positive criticisms. [[15.50]] And we're supposed to be telling people what we feel could have made this law better, but you didn't take it into account. I am a little concerned, by the way, that, since we are acting as constructive opponents and we have tabled a number of amendments, yesterday's TAB meeting revealed that these proposals were rejected by you, but this is still allowed to be rejected, but it was revealed when we asked the Secretary of State to justify the rejection of the fact that they had not actually read these amendments, because it seemed that it was then that the Secretary of State read them and explain why he did not believe that these amendments would be adopted. And then one or two more responses to the previous ones. Gábor Fodor here has said that the Islamic State is a serious crisis for the world, it is true, but Gábor Fodor has been silent about it, and has not agreed to whose interest it is in the Islamic State. Who created this Islamic State, who, in fact, has a great role to play in the fact that this wave of migration has started from those areas, but there are many other things involved. And that's what Szilárd Németh was talking about. Szilárd Németh, you said that the politicians of the European Union are primarily responsible for this crisis in Hungary. And indeed, there is a responsibility for European politicians, but you've been shamelessly silent about it, don't you, Szilárd Németh, that the United States of America, let's say, has a role to play in this, in the development of the whole situation. This is what Adam Mirkóczki was talking about, and what Szilárd Németh was even more shy about, and whether the government had any responsibility in the situation. And as a result of the migration wave, we also have a serious situation in Hungary, and this catastrophic situation has to be stated, largely due to the fact that the Orbán government has detected the problem later. When he noticed it, he reacted slowly, and so far he has taken ridiculous and ineffective measures to solve the problem. Remember, when Jobbik has been trying to draw the government's attention to the threat of migration for months and has asked you to take immediate action, then the government's first measure was to try to stop migrants with posters, that is to say, they didn't do anything yet, but they were trying to protect the country with words and slogans. I suppose they'll remember the text of one of these posters:. If you come to Hungary, you can't take the work of Hungarians! By the way, these are harsh words that show the people of the country that Fidesz represents their interests hard, but the problem is that they're just words. You are the government of words and great sayings - but what have you done? What have you done to really protect Hungarian jobs for the Hungarian people? If we look at it, then nothing, because once again, it was on the poster:. If you come to Hungary, you can't take the Hungarians' work! From Prime Minister De, we also know that what they say should not be taken into account, but what they do. And what have you done? According to the NGM information published in the official notification published on 25 August, which was signed by András Tállai on behalf of Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, they provide that in 2015 59 thousand work permits may be issued to workers from third countries in Hungary. 59 thousand work permits, 59 thousand Hungarian jobs. So they protected the Hungarian jobs nicely, even if Szilárd Németh now says that this is only an opportunity to give 59 thousand jobs, but we didn't give them, because, in his view, the statistics put forward here are that there can be a maximum of 3-4 thousand such jobs that will be filled by third-country nationals. The 3-4 thousand jobs in Hungary would also have been very useful. I mean, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you the July records of the KSH. According to this, 306 thousand Hungarian citizens do not have a job in Hungary today. They also need 59,000 jobs. According to KSH data, 222 thousand public-employed Hungarian citizens would be pleased to be able to work on the labour market. They also need 59,000 jobs. And it is a serious problem that more and more qualified Hungarian citizens are taking up work abroad, and it would be good to lure them home. They also need 59,000 jobs. So it should be done not in words, but in deeds. And this is the current situation that we have now, and it points to a lot of things, and I think we should learn from these experiences, and we should look at the anomalies that we have not dealt with so far. After all, even though we said that the Hungarian police are in a difficult situation, we have said that the Hungarian military is in a difficult situation, and in the last 25 years, I feel that every politician who has participated in the management of the country, or at least played a leading role, has a responsibility to the Hungarian police and the Hungarian military at present. After all, this situation has pointed out that we are talking about Schengen border protection, but if there had not been this refugee flood, the green border between Serbia and Hungary was about the same before the refugee flood, because it is safe to call it the green border: whoever wanted it came over. That's how we protected the Schengen borders. It is also thoughtful that if we cannot now defend Hungary's borders against the flood of unarmed people, then what would be in a more serious situation here. What if, say, and unfortunately, there is a war situation in our neighbourhood, what if only 200-300 armed people from this war situation were to move towards, say, Budapest? Then what can we do? These are serious problems, I think, which we have to deal with in the future, because unfortunately, the examples also show that we cannot defend our borders, even though we need to protect Hungary's borders, Hungarian people and our country. That is why, in my opinion, it would be necessary for all Hungarian soldiers to serve in Hungary, and for our soldiers to be here. Their job is to protect Hungary primarily and not to perform so-called services in foreign countries. Then, didn't my fellow Member, Mr President, talk about the presence of invisible migrants who pose a huge threat to us. And here you can talk about, of course, these scares and stuff, but not alarms. After all, if we go somewhere in Europe, we usually don't drink tap water as a precaution. And he doesn't drink tap water because it would be poisoned, but because he didn't grow up in that environment, there might be other bacteria in that water, and it might have a negative effect on our body. And the same applies to the fact that migrants who come in and who knows what pathogens they bring in may not be dangerous to them, but to the European man who did not grow up in this environment can be dangerous to that European man. Then we'll talk about transit zones. By the way, transit zones would make sense, and it is included in this law, if there is a very serious health screening and a very serious national security investigation into these migrants would be carried out, because that would be in the interests of the country. It's just a question of how much this would cost. How can we, say, raise money for this? And then, you know, we talk about Dublin III all the time. It's a treaty that we've actually concluded, just not in this situation. And you know that this convention is harmful to Hungary today. It is harmful for our country, because I think that you know it, because you announced on 23 June that you will terminate this agreement. Of course, you were called upon by the European Union, and immediately the next day you withdrew. You can clearly see that this may have incomprehensible effects for the future, as Szilárd Németh said that the untrained people are now coming, and they are going on, let's say, to Germany. Then these people, when they've been skimmed and selected, who are needed in Germany, will be sent back to Hungary, then we can take our heads back to what we're going to do with these people, who represent a different culture, and may not even want to be integrated into Hungarian society. Then, once again, Hungary will have a problem, and no one will help us, and no one will deal with us. The other and the last thing I want to talk about is that we want to, and we have always said, that everyone in Hungary should be subject to the same laws, and these laws must be followed. And how serious the situation is, I'm just watching a few minutes of news again: in the Röszke hangar within the fence, two migrant troops fell on each other, batting each other with sticks and stakes, the police didn't interfere, as the more calm migrants separated the fighters, the sticks, and the stakes were finally thrown outside the fence, and the reason for the confrontation is unknown. That's one of the news. [[16.00]] The other news is that the refugees are at the moment in the stop lane of the M1 motorway to Budaörs, and the M1 motorway is blocked, and cars are not on it, so it's completely blocked. I do not think that these conditions are good in Hungary. I do not think that the police, regardless of whether they are refugees or not, should not enforce the Hungarian laws. And it's quite simply unacceptable to talk about any transit zone if someone tries to ask for asylum without papers. This is the same as if I were to appear on the border of the United States of America without any papers with my family, I would say, please, I am from Syria, from here on out, give me supplies and let me into the country. Where would they let you in? From the United States of America, they'd turn me back right now, put me on the first plane, and I wouldn't even go near the border, because it's not normal for people to arrive without papers, and they're just saying something. This is a national security risk; and they also claim to have come from Syria and come all the way here by selling their homes. Well, if someone comes from a war zone, how can they sell a house there, that would be another question. That's all I wanted to say for now, I guess there'll still be things I'll have to answer, and then I'll press a two-minute button. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-112	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in a normal time frame.
u2015-09-04-113	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would just like to respond to Mr Szilágyi, because I do not think that it would be useful to approach people who are truly refugees of war from Syria without the spark of fairness. I'm not saying everyone's like that, not by a long shot. Far from it. However, those who are war refugees - and this experience from the last 50 years - are very often indeed on the way, or where, say, a bomb attack has hit the house and they are on the road, yes, their basic documents are missing. Yes, there is such a thing, unfortunately, when a person asks for asylum, a person lodges an application for asylum either on the way or on the spot, in his own homeland, which he is about to leave, his documents are gone. It happens, and it's not the first time in the world in 50 years. On the other hand, this is indeed a very common word magic in recent days, why we believe that these are truly war refugees from Syria, when they claim to have sold their house in the East, how houses can be sold in a war zone. The fact is that what is going on in Syria is not a traditional war where an enemy country attacks another, and there is a clearly designated front zone; there is a civil war going on, and in many cases it is not exactly possible to determine who is with each other, and very often the battle scene is changing. Therefore, I do not want to deny, at all, that there are people who use this situation to make themselves falsely available to Syria, because obviously there are a lot of them. But unfortunately or not, it is also quite lifelike that there, when the fighting situation changes from week to month, if any, from week to month, yes, some people are still able to sell their houses today, but fear that the Islamic State or one of these extremist organizations will break into that area within a few weeks, and let's say that their 15-16-year-old child will be enlisted in such a killing machine, and therefore rather sell his house and set off the 15-16-year-old child to survive this cataclysm. Once again, I do not claim that I am not a fool to claim that everyone who arrives here comes from the Afghan and Syrian battlefield, but I also see from official government statistics that among the arrivals, the most populous group, so to speak, is Syrians. You are also talking about the fact that, yes, the start of the whole wave of refugees, the escalation of the whole immigration crisis, is closely linked to the fact that the adventurer policy of the Western authorities has destroyed state machinery, and the continuing violation of international law in this area is directly linked to the inhumane conditions that have arisen there. So I very much ask that we do not question this, and I do not even say that in solving the situation, because the situation is clearly not going to be resolved here in Hungary, but that in dealing with the situation, we should take account of these fairness aspects. Just because I would like to emphasise once again what I said in my morning keynote speakers that if Hungary does not apply the principle of fairness to the people here, it does not take into account international law rules, it does not simply mean that human rights organisations here will blame Hungary and it will be bad for those who came in here, but will lead to the escalation of the situation. If the Hungarian government is unable to maintain order, it is unable to provide decent conditions for those who have left the Keleti railway station today, for example, only the chaotic situations seen in recent days and the situation that intimidates Hungarian people will follow. That is why we call on the government to create an orderly state, and for our sake alone, for the sake of the Hungarian people, if it does not immediately launch the train for those who want to go to Germany, then it is okay, Minister, if they do not choose this path, then the conditions worthy of man must be granted to the migrants present here. In part, because the humane requirements dictate this, partly because international legal standards oblige Hungary to do so, and partly in the interests of the people living here, the Hungarian people, in order to maintain a sense of security, it is important to ensure that humane conditions are granted to those who are either legally or illegally or as refugees or as economic immigrants, but today are in Hungary. I do not think that, by the way, these conditions should be created by the Hungarian defence, and that is the task of the various Hungarian administrative bodies. What has happened in the last few days has affected the Hungarian people's sense of security for a reason, which is why we should create an orderly state. Note that this is also possible on the basis of the legislation that was in force yesterday, and that if, let us say, the budget of the BAC was not reduced but increased, then there would also be the necessary capacity to avoid such quite chaotic and terrifying situations in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-04-114	Csaba Hende, Minister of Defence, has just checked in. I'm just telling you that there's only one speaker left, and then I'll give you the floor, if that's all right. [[Csaba Hende: Good.]] It's fine. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti.
u2015-09-04-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also like to respond to Mr Schiffer's statement a few rounds earlier, and even to his statement in connection with an early afternoon debate. There is no discussion between us that illegal immigrants trapped at the Bicske train station are obviously in a traumatic state, tense, nervous. But, Mr. Group Leader, even this cannot justify taking drinking water from young children and women, taking food, fruit, and other supplies, and practically throwing them under the train and on different tracks. This is quite simply an inhuman, wild attitude, taking food and drinking water away from women and young children. Unfortunately, this - respect for the exception, I start with - predicts that if these immigrants stay on top of us in large numbers, then what can all members of the indigenous state-making nation who come into contact with them if they display such cruel, inhumane treatment or conduct against their own blood. I just want to draw your attention to this in advance. On the other hand, we scratch the surface here, caress who's to blame, who's to blame. He said the right thing, and I do not want to repeat the arguments, or I would like to do it in part: the United States is responsible, because Gábor Fodor is ultraliberal, pro-American, contrary to his perfectly compliant statement of American needs and expectations, the United States has not gone to build democracy in the Middle East and in certain African countries, but has gone to build its own economy. He conducted recent conquest campaigns and conquering wars in the spirit of economic draining, in which he also used the latest secret service tools, created a distorted formation under the name of the Islamic State, which was then released from their hands or control in whole or in part, and now began to live an independent life. Although it is very interesting that the Islamic State did not directly attack American and other targets. I do not wish evil to the American civilian population, and do not misunderstand, but it is very interesting that the United States, even in this regard, can resolve that war should never, ever break out in its own territory, in its own territory, in its own country or in its own jurisdiction, should not have to wage a war of defence. [[16.10]] On the other hand, it is silenced by respectable liberal fellow Members, although they receive donations, supplies, financial assistance and instructions from roughly America about how many hundreds or thousands of kilometers of fences are at the American-Mexican border, whether in the form of wire fences or concrete walls, and what fate awaits Mexican migrants who illegally cross this fence or wall. Those, please, will, at best, be shot, shot, executed or treated after a few warnings, which, to put it mildly, exhausts the international legal concepts of inhumane treatment. They do this in the name of liberalism considered to be the wise of human rights; the gravedigger of humanity, by the way, because liberalism is now rightly called the plague of humanity and the gravedigger of Europe, the most devastating idea of humanity, if you can say so, the liberal idea system. Well, these factors are not taken into account by you, and in the draft political statement on the next item, you have made careful efforts to prevent the United States from messing with one, not to include, or to include, very relevant statements that are critical of the United States. The European Union is faulty, especially all the leading powers of the European Union, on the one hand because they were partly involved in the draining of the Middle East. On the other hand, the extreme liberal is very interesting, I might say, the argument of the liberal Nazis - I can only use this term - because they are willing to vote for it, and they also gave you two-thirds support for Hungarian soldiers to go to war theatres that we had nothing to do with, go out to Iraq or, earlier, to Afghanistan and other war zones. So for liberals, the evidence is that Hungarian soldiers are involved in foreign operations that we have nothing to do with. But for liberals, it is not evident that the Hungarian soldier protects Hungarian borders and the lives of Hungarians and protects Hungarian families. What is this, if not an anti-national, traitorous attitude? I could say, all I've said is that liberals never go next door for a little treason, and now I have to say, they have treason in their blood. A very simple distinction must be made between a Hungarian-speaking politician and a Hungarian politician. So public relations and language skills do not mean that these politicians represent Hungarian interests, and they are always motivated to face these interests at the front. It's just more dangerous now that we don't have time, and I'm not optimistic at all, maybe I'm one of the most pessimist of my own faction in terms of marking the end of the century here, setting deadlines of 2050 and 10-20 years, maybe we can still stay in the majority here in the truncheon, or even survive these apocalyptic states. I think that in five years, or even in a shorter time, we may be able to disappear permanently if we are not able to do so by physical force - because otherwise we will not be able to - or by some devious act - to stop or channel us in another direction, to divert us in another direction, then, given the current wave of immigration, and knowing the numbers, we will be in minority in our own country in practically 2-3-4 years. Let us see what numbers do not alarm us, but inform us of these conditions, that at least 200 to 300 thousand illegal immigrants are expected to arrive this year, and these are only harsh estimates. And let's see if a few thousand are stuck here. There are only a few thousand left on our necks, and the order of Budapest is already disrupted, the M1 and M7 motorways cannot be driven out, Röszkén was practically a permanent brawl today, from which the police were systematically and obviously left out by way of a plan, order and order. How long can the police continue to do this without getting into the center of trouble? This isn't going to take too long. You can't go easy on people who threatened Kiskunhalas with arson and arson. And let's not miss the order. We didn't invite them here. On the other hand, what makes these people want to go from a war zone, not immediately to the first neighbouring country or, if not neighbouring country, most of them Islamic country, where they receive the same culture, traditions, the same living conditions, living conditions offering them much more integration opportunities? Why don't you go there? Why doesn't Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, or other rich oil-rich states accept them? That's because they're averting the problem, pushing it away. What's happening? Let us see, honourable government representatives, we can be the losers of Europe. We can become Europe's refugee camp, because everyone's blowing off the problem, everyone's averting it, everyone's looking for a way to get out of it, and we want to be good students again, and we want to set a good example again - in this situation we can't do it. What's the solution? I must also agree, in itself, with the statement by those politicians who are unacceptable to me that 3,600 policemen and a few thousand soldiers alone, especially if they stand on a parade wall, will not solve this. There are two possible solutions, but both have the same outcome. We do not register them, because if these people will be deported from Western Europe, Germany most of all, and they will be deported in bulk, then not only the inflow will cause a huge problem, but also the repatriation. I guarantee you that when Germany and other Western European countries have taken out of these people the valuable people who build their economies, uploaded the vacancies, they will push these people back here at the moment. They will be willing to pay us even hundreds of millions or billions of euros, if necessary, only they will not have to face it, but only us. That's the whole point of this story. That is why Bulgarians do not register, so the Greeks do not register, and even now not only do Italians do not do this, but besides the Czechs, brother-in-laws and Austrians also give a big deal about Dublin III, ignore them completely, ignore all international legal requirements. Of course, because they have the natural instinct to live, which seems to have not yet caught up with the government or penetrated it, that in such difficult times, the international treaties are not the primary priority, but the survival of their own nation, because they probably already know from their own police and secret service reports that this is just a modest foreplay, a modest advance that has arrived so far. If the multimillion-dollar black-African flood starts, then tell me, what are we gonna do? Are we going to create thousands of reception stations every day, at your convenience, without consulting the local authorities and the local population? I'd like to ask you to answer what your plan is for this to happen. If a few thousand immigrants are already obsessed with police capacity and will tie down the capacity of the defence, the capacity of the state administration apparatus, what if the crowds trapped here are thousands, even tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, and then - and this is a very, very close state, it will happen by next spring at the latest - to a million-dollar level? So what are we gonna do? We're gonna watch here, chamomile, rub our eyes and lick our mouths and say, oh, my God, we didn't know that? What are we going to do with this terrible amount of people? Of course, liberals and left-wings do not think about this, and not only for the above-mentioned reasons that they are facing national interest, but because, as Gábor Fodor's earlier idea shows, I would like to draw their attention to this, they also want to give suffrage in parliamentary elections - if they could, they would have given it to these immigrants - because they are aware that they will no longer be going to government in the foreseeable time because of the Hungarian vote. That's what I want to get the helm back. That's how they want to get back into power. It is only the case, my honourable fellow Members, that you tell me how the Hungarian health care in ruins will survive even in the event of a small epidemic. How do we ensure proper hospitalization, hospital beds after a great deal of downsizing and reduction of beds that you have done? How will the Hungarian health care survive this? How are we going to raise the necessary amount of money? It could also be said that it sounds demagogic, but in fact it is absolutely true that those pro-immigration support tax increases, because such a large amount of money could only be generated through significant tax increases. I would therefore also like to ask the honourable Minister of Defence to answer what will be the exact task of the defence after their deployment. Are we gonna go to the border, or are we gonna have squadrons going out to the border? What's happening is that in addition to the two police officers so far, ten soldiers will now be escorting respectable illegal immigrants, or will they attempt to stop this sea, this locusthad, by using all the legal means available, means not to kill people, but means to prevent them from entering the country? When 80 percent are men, when men between the ages of 18 and 44 are in a three-quarter majority, men in a seemingly excellent physical state, we have the suspicion that this is an action organised, to say the least, by atypical or unorthodox and secret services, which seems to succeed better than the instigators and instigators planned in advance. [[16.20]] What prevents Member States of the European Union, its maritime Member States, from territorially competent navys from sinking smugglers in an empty state or otherwise destroying them? What's stopping them from cutting off this route, this supply route, somehow? Europe is completely helpless, Europe is self-destructive. It reminds me a little, in fact, of the situation before the fall of the Roman Empire in many ways. Europe is completely paralyzed, suffering from an autoimmune disease: practically the system has turned against itself, and it goes against common sense, common sense, common human thinking, fundamental interests, and even seems to be unable to recognize it in practice. European politicians are unable, in many cases highly dilettious and idiotic European leaders are incapable of discernment and thinking. Of course, it may be easy for them, because they live in a place where they are in such a position that they will never be harmed, even with a 99 percent majority of migrants, but much of the indigenous population will not be protected. So I'm asking you what kind of real action plan you have. What will be the jurisdiction of the Homelanders? What coercive measures can they use? Has the Hungarian police been prepared and the Hungarian defence prepared for the situation that when smugglers and international criminal organizations are not so cunning, but when I look at the map, they prepare for a clear and easy-to-put trick or tactical shift or tactical shift, if they start to penetrate from the Hungarian-Romanian border section? There are signs of this: 10-12 days ago, some illegal immigrants have already been caught in the village of Bedő, which is closest to the Hungarian-Romanian border crossing in Ártánd. They said it was simple why they came here: there is no fence, there is no living protection, so there are no police, no soldiers, and there is no natural physical barrier to their arrival. Are they prepared for the situation that if the Hungarian-Romanian border crossings of Hajdú-Bihar County and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County show up - because the Romanians are likely to let them pass, everyone will let them pass, nobody will register them, just us - then how quickly can they build a fence there? Obviously not as fast as it should be. Will man get there, will there be enough soldiers? Summa summarum: we always run the same circles, and the only solution remains not to register them. Or, in an organized way, as the Serbs do, we will transport them across the country, then do what Western Europe wants, or physically prevent them from entering, so that we can avoid registration. If we don't do this, then we can only slow down a little bit at the immigration rate that looks like it's gonna cover our country in a year or two. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-116	I now give the floor to Minister of Defense Csaba Hende.
u2015-09-04-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Although I am not the author of the bill before us, allow me to respond briefly to some of the speeches that have been made towards the end of the debate. Firstly, I would like to thank all those who participated in the debate in a critical but objective and constructive manner. My fellow Member, Mr President, asked here during the debate what my relationship with the 12 points was like. Well, I suppose, like most Hungarians - perhaps so much closer that one of the demands of the 12 points was the establishment of a national police force. This has happened, one of the most wonderful achievements of the Hungarian nation is that in a few months he organized the Hungarian Defence Forces out of nowhere and set up the Hungarian military industry, and this defence stood up against one of the best armies in the world at that time, the Austrian army. Well, there is also a point in 12 points that Hungarian soldiers should not be taken abroad, and foreigners should be taken away from us. You have now raised this question to me, Congressman President Novak. I fear that he is sitting with his back in the cinema, so there are no foreign soldiers stationed in Hungary. What are you talking about, Mr. Congressman? Only Hungarian soldiers are stationed in Hungary. I don't understand the question. Here's to taking over this thing one more time. The other question is: they do not take Hungarian soldiers abroad, especially not in the sense that the authors of the 12 points, the young people of March at the Pilvax café, interpreted this. Then, you know, Congressman, it was an army of forced troops, whose members must be said abroad, in a little quotation mark, carried to other provinces of the Habsburg Empire, to its eternal provinces, or to its associated countries, and protested against it. This is a completely different historical situation. You are trying to force this on today's Hungary, as a member of NATO and the European Union, in the Fundamental Law and in all its laws, on Hungary, which is involved in collective protection tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, - because more people have asked that question. I think you have a problem with our NATO membership and our membership of the European Union - we are engaged in military operations abroad under the auspices of both organisations - and you probably have a problem with our UN membership, because we are also involved in peacekeeping missions of the United Nations in quite a number of parts of the world. Now tell me, are we gonna get out of all three, or are we gonna have enough of one or two? What do you want? Do you want Hungary to provide its armed protection only as a neutral country of its own strength, such as Switzerland? This is obviously an interesting suggestion, one can think about it, at the moment that if another referendum overrides the Hungarian people's decision to enter NATO in a referendum, and I ask you, in favour of this decision, that they may remember it, perhaps not, but let me refresh it, 85 percent of the Hungarian citizens who voted in favour of this decision voted in favour. When there is another valid referendum decision [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] If there is another such decision, it will certainly be possible to raise that question. Otherwise, neutral countries spend a great deal more on defence than NATO countries of our size. So, it's complicated questions, and circling here just because it sounds good, is a completely different, otherwise very glorious, great time political demand, and then confronting the government with half of the completely aired... What kind of foreign soldiers should they take from us? Tell me, Congressman. Where are the foreign soldiers you demand to be removed from Hungary? I would like to say very firmly that we are on the ground of constitutionality, and that is part of the state's violence monopoly. We cannot support the deployment of any free troops, Hungarian Guards or others in the surveillance and defence of the border. I am most strongly opposed to any such adventurer policy. I have told you several times: no one thinks that any technical barrier is impenetrable. The wall of concrete can also be blown up, my fellow Members. Of course, a technical lock indicates first the free and not free border; as the fence of my garden indicates how long the road takes, the public road in the public domain, and where my private property begins. You can climb over the fence, but you can't - and one of the most important criteria for the state-like operation of a state is that it punishes, punishes, and retaliates, if necessary. Of course, in order for these protection measures to be possible, it is necessary to have the right legal background. Now, a few hours ago, the Hungarian Parliament adopted an amendment to the Btk. that makes the destruction and unauthorised passage of the technical lock punishable. [[16.30]] Several have raised the question of the gates here on the technical lock. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not for anyone to come in there; it's for the forces that provide the technical lock to go out there, because on the other side there can be a number of events that justify the fact that the inside [[István Apáti intervenes.]] police or soldiers are allowed to go outside. Let's just think about a birthing woman or someone getting hurt, so you have to be able to bring her in, please. There's a big gate in the technical system every ten kilometers because, if necessary, the ambulance needs to be able to get out, do you know? That's what the gate is for. We said that until 15 September, until the laws which Parliament has already adopted today, and which are to be adopted in part, and which are still to be decided in the form of a law that is being debated, will enter into force, well, another regime, another procedure on this issue, will begin. So it is also clear that without live force, without adequate guard protection and adequate maneuvering force in depth, no technical facility can be protected, single-line, two-line, or three-line, because anything can be overcome by suitable means, whether with machines, explosives or wire cutters. The question is, what is the time between perception and response, when the defense forces have the opportunity to defend this line, to defend the state border. It is a very simple question: those who wish well, those who come with a fair intention will be asked to come to the transit zones in which they can apply for asylum; they obviously wish to apply for refugee status in Hungary. This is the only way, by the way, that if you get this status, you can legally enter Hungary, because otherwise you do not have a travel document or visa. Another issue is that, according to experience, the majority of those applying for refugee status do not want to use the protection of the Hungarian state, nor do they even get to the place of residence designated for them, where they should wait for the end of the procedure, but travel across the country; they do not require or request the protection of the Hungarian State. In this sense, there is also a question of the reality of the application for refugee status as to how it reflects the person's will. So this would lead to a more complicated legal debate and a problem. The point is that several people have asked that András Schiffer raised it here at the end of the debate, and many people have said why we have been idle, why we have not built beautiful refugee camps in the last eight months - they would all be standing empty. These people don't want to go to refugee camps. So they're asking us to do pointless things. They ask why we don't let them cross the country without any registration. Because, ladies and gentlemen, our international obligations, the international treaties signed by the country, do not allow this. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] By the way, Austria, please believe me, as has been the case in the last few days, prevents these people from entering its territory, where appropriate. We would gain nothing by this, believe us, but we only achieve that at that moment our status within the Schengen area is de facto, that is to say, our status within the Schengen area will be abolished, and the Hungarian people will have to line up at the border in the same way as they were supposed to. I am from Szombathely, I know how many hundreds and thousands of us and the neighborhood go to work in Austria, make good money, bring it home, and spend it at home; it is not about emigrants. If they have to wait for hours a day at the border, it means they have no opportunity to earn bread. With an irresponsible move to let these people pass through Hungary without control and registration, we will beat the bread out of the hands of our commuting countrymen working abroad, believe me. Ferenc Gyurcsány - although he did not wait for the response - said without a doubt his rhetorical feat with great rhetorical talent. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Several people have responded here that to protect innocent people from violence, unprotected, unarmed people, police and military violence, many people have the right, almost everyone in this country has the right, one person certainly doesn't, and that's Ferenc Gyurcsány. In the autumn of 2006 it was clear that these words were false. However, allow me to argue with some of your claims. He says that anyone who has entered Hungary has an obligation to do so. He referred to the fact that the border closure is, of course, built in Hungarian territory. We cannot build on the territory of Serbia, and even a so-called border opening of two and a half metres must be left free under the relevant international conventions, where we cannot engage in any activities, especially construction activities. You're wrong, Ferenc Gyurcsány. The Hungarian State's obligation to the person concerned does not arise when he sets foot on the Hungarian soil, but only at the moment when he applies for refugee status. When you submit this request, you will be entitled to protection from that moment. All we ask of him is that he do this. On the basis of the Geneva Convention, the Dublin Convention and all other applicable Hungarian and international standards, the approved bodies, the Hungarian asylum authorities will assess whether he is being persecuted where he comes from in the sense that he is entitled to obtain refugee status. We will ensure - because we need to ensure - redress and judicial review against these decisions. And anyone who does not receive refugee status after that cannot enter the territory of Hungary, as a matter of fact. And who is entitled to do so, and I do not want to repeat the rules of this, but will be applied and judged by authorized officials and should be allowed into the country. It's as simple as that. Obviously, when the government declared Serbia a safe third country in the last few weeks, it also took a position that we were unaware that anyone in Serbia would be persecuted. Of course, at the departure station, in Syria and elsewhere there can be such a... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then I'd like to continue later, Mr. President, if I may. Thank you very much. I'm not finished yet. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-118	I now give the floor to Mr President Novák for a two-minute comment.
u2015-09-04-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked the Minister, if possible, not to abuse the possibility of closing and to participate in the substantive part of the debate, but only in the closing part, when unfortunately we do not have the opportunity for a meaningful reply, so if the debate is not over, thank you very much and I would respond. So, on the one hand, the Minister, I think, answered with a delay, because he has come all the way out of the United Nations in connection with my suggestion based solely on the demands of 12 points of the young men in March, and it does sound to me that our Hungarian soldiers should not be taken abroad, the foreigners should be taken away from us. Obviously, a complete parallel cannot be established between the historical situation of a long and a half century ago and today, but I think it is right to question why Hungary should now station 116 military vehicles in Iraq, for example, and the Magyar Nemzet reported, but even the Daily Economy, that the United States would permanently station 50 military vehicles in Hungary in the near future. [[16.40]] I mentioned the U.S. Army in this regard. I think I didn't mention American soldiers, but rather a precise American army, so please don't turn this around, and even feel free to state whether it is acceptable that Hungary is being stationed in Hungary, either as a target or as an alien army. I think that this is not compatible with the spirit of young people in March, and I would be happy if the Minister could clarify this question. The main point, of course, that I told you about, is to bring the Hungarians home, not to build democracy in Afghanistan, but to hold back the Afghans who besieged the Hungarian border here in order to protect the Hungarian border. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-120	I now give the floor to Minister for Defence Csaba Hende.
u2015-09-04-121	Thank you very much for the floor. At Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech, who said that he should have prepared for the reception, he also said that he should have set up camps. Well, we'd do a lot of good, we've got enough reception stations. Perhaps they know, perhaps not, that the refugee camps in Hungary are far from full, they simply refuse to take their place in refugee camps and wait for the end of the procedure for migrants staying with us, illegal immigrants, immigrants of livelihoods. So this is an absolute misunderstanding. Ferenc Gyurcsány is mistaken, when he says that the soldiers of the Hungarian Army are not trained for mass management, they are very trained. This cannot be different, since our Fundamental Law obliges the Hungarian Defence Office to contain internal riots and riots during a state of emergency and to restore order. Therefore, our soldiers will receive both the training and the necessary equipment for this activity. I note that we have particularly intensive training in this area in the framework of our peacekeeping missions in the Balkans, as Hungarian soldiers stationed in Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina are also defending our national interests there. Let me tell you this, because the right-wing fellow Members are forever confused, because Hungary has an eminent interest in peace, order and tranquility in the Western Balkans, because all kinds of unrest, problems, internal conflict, civil war immediately spills on Hungary with two of the four certaintys of two of the most burdensome and, overall, the consequences of much greater sacrifice, whether in migration, organised crime, drug trafficking and other negative phenomena. So, in the framework of these Balkan missions, Hungarian soldiers will receive particularly intensive training to protect objects and manage the unrelenting masses, where appropriate. Of course, the Defense Act clearly states that the soldier is not obliged to execute an illegal order. Of course, shooting an unarmed crowd, using firearms, using a weapon to kill life is illegal. So Ferenc Gyurcsány doesn't have to start a riot, inciting disobedience to orders, when he floats and suspects that he will get into a lot of trouble, and he will be branded for a lifetime by a soldier who is involved in such things that the government now wants. The thing is much clearer and simpler: the legitimate order of the legal magistrate must be carried out by the soldier, everyone who aspires and exults against it disrupts the order and discipline of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and the most serious crime is committed, because it also weakens the capacity of the Hungarian State. I think it is very important to say this because Ferenc Gyurcsány and other members of his party have been trying for days to undermine the commanders and officers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. I strongly reject such efforts. Of course, the defense will carry out all legal orders on the basis of legal authority, and we will, of course, maintain order and discipline. Congressman Schiffer also wants a camp or a train to send migrants to Germany. I've already shown that one dead end is the same as the other. So, unfortunately, I have to conclude that once again, the fellow Members have not provided any proposals for solutions, no constructive ideas, no viable ideas. Congressman István Apáti asked about the exact task of the defence. It is very clearly stated in the proposal for a law, and I do not wish to repeat its provisions. I would like to say one more thing: it is not about the use of the defence and not the use of the defence, but the involvement of the defence. This means that the constitutional situation is the same as in disaster management cases, where disaster management is primarily responsible for addressing problems, and the defence can only be used if and to the extent that the forces of disaster protection are not sufficient. The same is the case here: the police will remain responsible for the protection of the state's order and the surveillance of the state's border. In the event of a violent disturbance to the state's order, of course, the forces present in the defence can be used, as can common patrols and other technical and humanitarian care tasks such as the use of our unmanned aircraft to monitor the lines, such as the public health epidemic involvement of the military health care or the provision of our supply capacities, accommodation, catering. So there will be a number of areas, there may be tasks for the defence if the Parliament adopts the law before us. We do not plan to conduct a parade, Congressman, on the border, our decorating soldiers in Budapest have enough tasks to do on various protocol occasions. So, ironically, that's what I can say to your really ironic question. We are preparing for a valuable contribution, and the Hungarian Defence Office has the necessary training and equipment for this. You asked me a question, Congressman Abbot, what's to stop the smuggling ships from sinking. This is a very good question, these often tragic smugglers - because migrants are going to sea - are leaving a mass of people off the coast of Libya. The EU-Navfor-Med military mission, which I have already mentioned, is, in this way, a toothless lion, because, without the authority of the UN Security Council, it is of such a very justified and logical nature as the Member has suggested, for example, the destruction or confiscation of smugglers is not possible without the UN Security Council's decision. The use of coercive measures by the military is also included in the bill. [[16.50]] Once again, in the face of an unarmed crowd, soldiers should not use sharp firearms in the event of any disturbance, riot or disorderly conduct, but only in the event of an attack on them, in a state of quasi self-defense. But I do not think that these migrants, who pay big money to smugglers, would like to fight anyone at our southern borders and get into an armed fight. We hope that the clear messages, the physical border lock, the legal threat and the visible presence of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the police forces will suffice to do what the fence alone, the technical lock alone, is not enough to prevent them from crossing the Hungarian state border violently and unauthorizedly. Serbia is a candidate for accession to the European Union, but it is not a member. You asked me a question, Congressman, what will happen when you approach from the Romanian border? This will be a new situation, as Romania is an EU Member State. We'll cross this river when we get to the bridge, honourable Member. Mr President Novak was pleased to note that he could argue with the member of the government. I'm glad you're happy about this, although at first you thought I was a little uninformed and abused. Well, I'm not gonna say a word because I'm not a nationalist. I'm in the debate. Once again, he asked a question which has no actuality, since the United States did not ask the Hungarian government this question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-04-122	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2015-09-04-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise I'll be brief. There's only one thing we haven't talked about. A lot has been said about the law. With the support of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we will be able to adopt this law, and the way will open up for us to deal with the migration flows into our country in a different way. But we haven't talked about one thing yet, and that's the most important thing: we can make any laws, but that law should be enforced. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has consistently been in its position for a long time now - we have said this several times here in Parliament - that everyone in Hungary should be subject to the same laws, that everyone should be subject to the same procedure, be it the Hungarian citizen, be it the tourist or the migrant, and that they should be subject to the same laws within the borders of Hungary. We also said that these laws should apply equally to Hungarian citizens and to everyone, religion, race, origin and any discrimination. And here is the biggest problem. There have already been laws in Hungary, which many have not complied with, and the Hungarian police have failed to enforce them. For example, those who live near the Eastern Railway Station, who live in the second district. Do they live around Pope John Paul's Square, not the richest Hungarian citizens, and go to work every morning, and then they find it harder to get home, or do they have to live in this unblessed state for a long time, or do they have no rights in the vicinity of the Debrecen reception centre? And if they commit any act that might be a violation or something, they will be immediately attacked by the authorities, and they will see that because they are in some situation, police are treating them like a male egg, and they will not retaliate against them in any way. If we were to take a walk on the M1 motorway by 200 Hungarian citizens, would the police allow it and even assist it? So the most important question - and that would be the most important - is that if we make a law and make any laws, then we enforce them. And it doesn't matter what situation we are talking about, it doesn't matter who we are talking about, it can't be a matter of consideration. What I ask of you is that, since we will support this amendment of the law, this law should be enforced in the future, so that it is a functioning law, and not just a pretend act. Let's not just make a fake law, and then we'll keep things the same. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-124	I do not see any further opposition, so I will close the debate and give Mr Vas Imre the opportunity to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate.
u2015-09-04-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have answered the decisive part of the questions raised, so I would not repeat the Minister. What I would like to say is that my fellow Member, Mr Mirkóczki, was at the beginning trying to make it seem that perhaps the absence of the Prime Minister, who had been discussing in Brussels and elsewhere, prevented there from being a derogation from house rules. I would like to inform my colleague, Mr Mirkóczki, that 41 is more than one fifth of the 198 Members - now there are so many Members, one place is vacant. If, apart from 41, all the Members who were absent, including opposition representatives, had been present, there would have been 79.29 percent, and the four fifth would have been 80 percent. [[President Novak: And Viktor Orbán knew this in advance, because he calculated it in advance! Great leader!]] Excuse me, fellow Member, I have listened to you. The debate has been going on for more than four hours, please allow me to respond to what has been said. So, no matter how I count - I may have been weak in mathematics, or I hit the machine badly - but in 198 Members, 41 do not have the option of having the four fifths, so the 80 percent majority. The other problem raised at the beginning of the debate was that it might have been necessary to amend the basic law or that it would fit into the Hungarian legal order. We have already indicated - my fellow Member Schiffer made the most of this - that the Fundamental Law lists the fundamental tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office. According to the Hungarian language, this list does not mean that it applies only to the first. But to be precise and spectators to understand, the second sentence of Article 45 (1) of the Fundamental Law reads: "The fundamental task of the Hungarian Defence Office is to protect Hungary's independence, territorial integrity and borders by military protection, to carry out joint defence and peacekeeping tasks arising from an international treaty, and to carry out humanitarian activities in accordance with the rules of international law. So the five tasks listed in the Fundamental Law are the basic tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office. As has been said in several places - for example, my colleague Mirkóczki was at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee this week, as well as the National Security Committee - and the military has tasks that we do not call essential tasks, such as bombing tasks. Two extreme positions on the bill appeared to emerge. On the Balliberal side, perhaps my fellow Member Gábor Fodor said that we should criminalise him because he was a refugee, and on the other hand, the extremist position was formulated by the President Novák, who said that our soldiers and police officers would bring migrants into the border and at the gates on the wire fence. [[17.00]] So basically the purpose of the fence is to regulate where the border can be crossed. I think that for centuries there have been border crossings where crossing between different countries can be done, and here the fence is basically used at the border crossing point. [[Forebod Novak: Are we opening a new border crossing? I didn't know.]] If someone wants to come to Hungary and ask for asylum, they will report to the police station, they will escort them to the transit waiting area and present their asylum application to the Immigration and Nationality Office. Then the authorities will assess it, as in all administrative procedures, there is an appropriate remedy. So I think with our bill, we wanted to target the middle ground. So obviously we want to fulfil our humane and humanitarian obligations, but at the same time we want to ensure the order of the Hungarian border, that the procedures take place within the legal framework, and that there should be no such... If I want to go somewhere, I basically knock on my door, and I go in through the gate, and if they tell me to come in, I'll go in, so if they say they don't want to see me, I won't go in, but there are legal options here to make a request for asylum. I also believe that everyone has equal rights. So, as we say, the yoga towners trying to get to the subway have the same right to go down to the subway as they have the right to submit a request for asylum. If the person making the application does not like the administrative decision, he may go to court and this will be duly judged by the courts. By the way, it was apparent that there was perhaps agreement in the whole Parliament on one issue, that this was one of the most serious problems in Hungary and also in the European Union over the past decades. Whether there should be a single position, of course, but we want a single position that meets the interests of Hungary. And if there is a position within the European Union that meets the interests of Hungary, we will, of course, support it. If the interests of Hungary correspond to the need to take up the conflicts, then the conflicts must be carried out. In view of this, I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-09-04-126	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted next week at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. We now have the general debate on the presentation of the "Message to the leaders of the European Union." Presentation submitted by representatives of Rogán Antal, Gulyás Gergely, Tuzson Bence, Németh Szilárd István, Font Sándor, Völner Pál, Bánki Erik, Vas Imre, and Móring József Attila, Harrach Péter and Firtl Mátyás H/5984. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Tuzson Bence, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-09-04-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have an important resolution proposal ahead of us. We have already talked a lot about this issue today, and indeed this proposal for a decision is also about this issue. I think that, in addition to the right to adopt laws, the Parliament also has an obligation to adopt a resolution if it has to speak on an important issue that concerns all of us, and if the country is affected by a problem that transcends the borders of the country, those responsible for this problem can also receive the message of the Parliament, the resolution of the Parliament. Of course, we are obliged to do so not only by common sense, but by the word of the people, the word of the Hungarian people, as one million people in Hungary expressed their views on this issue during the national consultation. On the basis of this view, the Hungarian people believe, and this is our view, that the immigration policy that Europe has created, which Europe is applying has failed, is not capable of dealing with the current situation, so we need a new immigration policy, not only in Hungary but also in Europe as a whole. Important things are happening here in Europe. I have pointed out earlier today that these measures, which we are taking, must not serve the country's interests in the short term, but in the long term, because we are now defining what Europe will be like in the coming period, but it is also important to identify who is responsible for this situation. This proposal for a resolution clearly states the Hungarian position, the Parliament's position, that the leaders of the European Union are responsible for the situation in Hungary and throughout Europe. Why is that? Because, in addition to creating a bad system, Europe's leaders are sending messages to refugees, and these messages are tempting. They are tempting to those who arrive in Europe as immigrants, to apply for asylum, but in reality they are economic immigrants. We entice them and tell them that in Europe there is a canaan flowing with milk and honey, come here, you will get everything here, you will have full care, so that Europe will solve the problem of your lives. Of course, it's a false illusion. This illusion must not be created in people who, under worse circumstances, live outside Europe. This policy is a flawed policy, because this policy is particularly important for us Hungarians and Central Europe, because people arriving on land or arriving at sea from Greece are mostly appearing in Hungary, going through Hungary, or making the Hungarian problem, refugee situation, immigration issue difficult. We see this, today, as well, how the Hungarian authorities are dealing with this problem at present. The leaders of the Union should be called upon to change this policy, to be a policy capable of protecting Europe, to protect Hungarian people, and in particular not only nations must have their own policies, to use their own means to defend the borders of the country, the borders of Europe, but also to have a sensible, spectacular, well-functioning common European policy. Accordingly, this proposal also calls on the Government to take all necessary measures to resolve this problem as quickly as possible. Finally, let me take a brief look at the fact that the cause of this problem is very deeply rooted, this is a question of civilization, because there are also historical reasons for this. European civilization, Western civilization, has been in a continuous expansion since its birth, perhaps since its dawn. This was already the case in ancient times, in the Greeks' time, when Alexander the Great was able to spread European culture, European civilisation in a few decades or a few years, and we can see how much this policy has had in addition to military conquests. This was also the case in the times of the otherwise more lasting Roman Empire, in the Middle Ages during the Crusades, later in the colonial era, and this is the case now when Europe or Western civilization intends to act in its own way. However, there are differences, since the dissemination of European civilisation and the dissemination of Western civilisation have always been a different element at the heart of this. World War II has changed this issue a lot and placed democracy at the heart of the Western civilisation expansion. Accordingly, if any Western or West-generated conflict or conflict in which Western Europe or the Western world is involved, it always plays a role in spreading democracy as a civilisation expansion. [[17.10]] This is also right in itself, but we must admit that this work is not always successful. We see the effects of the recent conflicts, since there were otherwise functioning states, semi-democratic states or even dictatorial states, which could never or could not fully own democracy, but some elements of European civilisation integration and expansion have already been taken over. When these little powers have collapsed in recent times, we see that there is a level three front, a level three, a scene where not only these little dictatorships have clashed with Western civilization, but they have also struck a newly emerging Islamic fundamentalist civilization that completely rejects the elements of Western civilization. It has a strange effect that these conflicts have provoked it, and this has had the effect of launching a flood of refugees towards Europe. Europe must realise that this policy needs to be changed, that it needs to change this civilisation and expansion policy, and that there are cases where European civilisation itself is at risk, Western civilisation itself is at risk. That is why it is very important that Europe prepares for this issue with civilization, and it is important, in particular, that Europe be able to preserve it as it is, because Europe is beautiful because it has nations, independent nations, strong nations, and they form an alliance with each other, so that they can achieve a strong Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-128	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, it's the government's turn. I'll ask Robert Répássy if he wants to comment. Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-04-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say very briefly to this House and to the national Members that, with regard to the point of decision on the Government, as regards the request, the Government agrees with and will implement the proposal for a parliamentary decision if Parliament adopts the parliamentary decision. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-130	The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. In this context, I give the floor first to Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-09-04-131	Mr President, Fellow Members! With this speech, I wish to speak not only as a keynote speaker of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, but also as a representative of the 3rd constituency of Fejér County for the benefit of citizens living in the constituency. The seat of the constituency is Bicske, where in 1989 it was the first station to host refugees, which is still the central establishment of the Immigration and Nationality Office in Bicsk. Unfortunately, contrary to the experience of the previous quarter of the century, it is no longer the typical image of helping our fellow citizens who are in real danger in their own country, but rather of what the country and the world could learn from the footage from yesterday's and today's Bicske Grand Station, which clearly shows that the people, the migrants who have remained on the train or who have left the train in the last few minutes, do not show any signs of cooperation, do not care about our assets and create fear within us, living locally. Let's face it, it's hard to give them real help. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, the European Union has experienced perhaps the biggest political crisis in its history, thanks to an ever-increasing wave of illegal migration. If this situation is not adequately addressed at EU level, the long-term effects of the crisis will be much more serious than the financial and economic crisis in 2008 or the Greek debt crisis, which was considered acute a few weeks ago. The chances of a common European solution are not encouraging, because events are moving forward much faster than slow-functioning European bureaucracy and institutional system. The pressure of modern-day migration, which crosses the external borders of the Union, has been unknown to Europeans in recent decades. Europe's last experience of population migration of the same size as it is today was 70 years ago, when millions of people were searching for their old or new homeland after the end of World War II. The political crisis confronts EU Member States, distils the Schengen and European asylum systems, and impromptu solutions and declarations only deepen the crisis. Dear fellow Members, In the migration process, the States concerned participate in or suffer from three possible forms: issuing, transit or destination countries. The issuing countries are primarily those States of the Middle and Middle East - Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan - where the civil war situation or the fragmented state order directly threatens everyday life. It is worth pointing out that, without stabilising the situation in the countries that have issued refugees, there is no way to achieve a satisfactory solution in the long term; this would be an essential condition for mitigating the migration flows. Masses of people from the issuing countries leave without documents, as they say; in parentheses: in the vast majority, their smartphones, tablets, bank cards not requiring a self-identifying document were not forced to leave behind during their persecution. However, the Schengen and Dublin rules can only handle regular border crossings and identifiable passengers and can only deal with a small number of migrant cases; only a small number of migrants, of whom only 8 percent, today only 1 percent, are exposed to real threats in their country. These rules, the Dublin rule system, are not designed for such mass migration, and life has gone beyond that. Hungary is in a unique position as a transit country: our country is the first EU Member State on the Balkan migration route which has been revived in recent months and which is forced to take measures to register refugees that other EU Member States concerned fail to take. The German Chancellor has also recently acknowledged that not all EU Member States fulfil their registration obligations, but Hungary fully complies with the registration rules. It can also be concluded in brackets that in the winter months the load on this route is projected to increase in its ratios. Our country is therefore forced to protect its state border, which is also the external border of the Schengen area, from illegal migration. The Schengen system was established to ensure the free movement of EU citizens and those legally residing within the zone without controls. The other side of the coin is that to this end, very strict entry and control conditions must be enforced by the Member States at the external border of the zone. [[17.20]] Many people are criticising us, but proposals that differ from the measures put in place, which can be used and resolve the situation are unfortunately lacking in criticism. We are convinced that both the strengthening of the southern border and the registration of refugees are in line with our national interests and our EU obligations. It is enough to refer to the following lines of the final declaration adopted by consensus at the last EU summit in June 2015. We need more extensive measures, including strengthening border management at the EU's external borders, in order to better halt the increasing flow of irregular migrants. The cited closing document focused mainly on illegal migration in the Mediterranean and did not sufficiently assess the severity of land migration in the Balkans. To address the problem of the Western Balkans route we will organise a high-level conference. Because of the gravity of the situation, it is obvious that a conference alone cannot solve the problem. Specific measures are needed which are clear to all Member States and to all persons affected by migration. A complex approach would be needed to stabilise the situation of the issuing States, through the financial and technical assistance of EU and non-EU member countries, until the review of the current refugee regime. The first task is to review and radically reform the Dublin regulation governing the management of refugees. This legislation involves an unfair procedure, which results in the responsibility for receiving asylum seekers and its psychological, financial and administrative burden for some EU countries along the border, namely Bulgaria, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Malta and Spain. At the same time, it should work together with the countries of the Western Balkans, which cannot hold back asylum seekers, and sometimes by state means help them to move forward. The EU should provide immediate assistance to these countries so that they can build their own system of receiving refugees and develop the necessary infrastructure for this. In addition, in line with the relevant EU decisions, immediate, increased financial support should be provided to the most affected EU Member States in order to alleviate the cost burden of receiving and processing applications for international protection. Dear fellow Members, The situation doesn't have a quick solution. But here and now, we need to act and establish laws that can ensure that migration is regulated, which is in the long-term interest of all of us in Europe. On his own initiative, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán discussed the refugee situation yesterday in Brussels with the leaders of the three EU institutions. During the consultations, it was mentioned that the Schengen system without internal border control is currently in danger. According to the Hungarian Prime Minister, this achievement can be restored primarily by effective control of the external borders. Hungary will stick to the provisions of the Schengen Treaty and will continue to enforce the Convention. Therefore, the measures taken by our country are designed to achieve this objective in accordance with EU rules. At the meetings, it was also said that next Wednesday, 9 September, the European Commission will present a new proposal for quotas for refugees. According to the Hungarian Prime Minister, before the introduction of the refugee quota and division, which can be a clear call for those who wish to leave their country, it is essential to establish a system to ensure effective control of the external borders of the European Union before the negotiations on compulsory refugee quotas that have already been rejected. Therefore, the new Hungarian immigration rules, which are expected to apply from 15 September, will provide a solution to the crisis that has arisen as a result of rapidly growing illegal immigration. In any event, if it joins this endeavour by mobilising the full force of all the Member States of the European Union. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-04-132	I would like to inform you that you have withdrawn the announcement of the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Great pain!]] I now give the floor to Péter Harrach, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-09-04-133	Mr President, Dear House, The link between the previous item and this item is obvious, so let me refer back to what was said there. Humanity and self-defense, or the question of self-defense, have come to light very often. Not only must we say that it is humanity and self-defense, but we can also do that we are putting an equal sign between the two, because true self-defense is not achieved at the Hungarian borders, but at peace-building in the issuing countries. This is in the interest of immigrants, as it is best to live at home, but it is in the interest of the European Union and of Europe as a whole, as this will help to eliminate some of the causes. The other question is what one of our fellow Members said, who recently held a high position. He taught us about Christianity. Well, it is not the first time that those who have cut their roots, their Christian roots, have given us such instruction. I never refer to religious reasons, but often to the historical and social role of Christendom, and this has a place in politics. Allow me to make one more reference: my fellow Member, Bence Tuzson, referred to the expansion of Western civilization. I would like to add that, of course, in agreement with this. If we take out the book that perhaps deals most with this issue, we also learn from Huntington's book The Confrontation of Civilizations that Western civilization is indeed in crisis, and the competition between it and other civilizations is certainly not for his benefit. The primary reason for this is the identity crisis between its representatives and the kind of non-cooperation that would strengthen the representatives of the various nations in this regard. But let's get to the present proposal. Its essence is next. The flood of illegal immigrants has caused a crisis in Europe and this crisis cannot be dealt with by the EU's leadership. I would now like to answer two questions, which, in my understanding, constitute the essence of the matter. What is the deepest danger caused by mass immigration and why cannot the EU's leadership handle it? We know there are different dangers. It has already been said: a health and social threat, because social security must be created for untrained people. A security threat, not only because of the infiltration of terrorists, but also because of the most important issue, the problem of cultural diversity. And then there's the danger, the essence of that, the danger from the cultural difference. [[17 .30]] Masses of distant cultures cannot be integrated. Some people may have, and we are experiencing this today, and in Hungary there are also people from far away countries who have found a second home for themselves here, but these are unique cases. The crowd can't and doesn't want to be integrated. Why do we say that? Consider the Western example. In the West - and you can see the extent of the progress of immigration - whether we go to Paris, London, Brussels, we can see the traces of this right away, even on the street. And we also find that not a multicultural society is formed, but that these people live in monocultural blocks, and in these people, just because of their own failures, they become frustrated, aggressive. From these mass groups, the participants in terrorist acts are verbing. And most importantly, among the representatives of this culture, they are intolerant to the representatives of different kinds of thinking, culture or even religions. I do not dispute that there are a lot of decent people among immigrants, and in this situation, most of them behave normally, but if they encounter resistance, and if they are in such a frustrated state, they will certainly be aggressive and intolerant. I think - and I think we can agree on that - that the culture of which its representatives have a stable identity and certain roots is strong and successful and able to cooperate, as we have just said from this quote. This is the root of my understanding of the problem of illegal immigration. And then let us also try to answer the question of why the leadership of the European Union cannot handle this situation. That's because they're not what I just referred to. They did not give up liberal dogmas, such as the dream of a multicultural society. They're still pro-immigration, ignoring the future of the continent. Just think of the size of demographic differences between immigrant families and the original European families. Let me point out a few specific things. It is very weak to take action against smugglers. Changing legislation according to needs has not started and what should not happen is being lured by immigrants. In any case, European leaders must be given the failing attitude and mentality that they can do only if they return to their roots and they really treat Europe as European, because they feel responsible for European people and European culture, because that is when they will be able to resist and protect Europe from the pressure of illegal migration. But as I referred to in my first sentence, self-defense also improves the situation of migrants by returning them to their own countries. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-04-134	The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2015-09-04-135	Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, it has not been said from the mouth of a government leader that, come on, allow us to decide who enters our court. I myself can fully identify with the idea, much more with an attitude, that I would like to dictate for myself who visits my own house and who doesn't. In the current situation, however, the need for intervention clearly arises, along the lines of an invasion, a conscious population exchange plan, with an army of alien aliens coming to Europe. Europe, marked by Hungary's borders, through its current borders. It is therefore necessary to establish without delay the responsibility for the processes and processes that have been triggered here. So so far, I can fully identify with the proposal put before us, which seems to be looking for those responsible. However, this proposal for a decision makes a worse diagnosis from a bad starting point and does not essentially mention therapy. I mean, what's total nonsense? There are two kinds of absolute nonsense. One is that exactly Fidesz criticises Brussels policy. The Fidesz, which of the parliamentary parties sitting here would have the greatest influence on shaping this. I stress that its influence is limited, since no one really believes that Hungary, from the heart of Europe, will be able to change processes in substance with its current political attitude. At the same time, it must be seen that action attempts can and should be made. However, we have seen very rarely that the Government of Hungary went to Brussels on its own to beat the table, especially in connection with the retirement of the media law and the judges. It is much more typical that representatives of the Government of Hungary are going on a report, its ambassadors when they are called to Brussels. Therefore, Jobbik, when accused of having no professional program, makes it very easy for Jobbik to put a rebuttal on the table. On the one hand, there are the better programming points that the government has already implemented, albeit a little grounded, and there are those that should be implemented immediately in order to get ahead. Let's run through all this. We consider it essential to close the currently open hostels and camps, to take them outside the populated area, to prohibit the establishment of additional ones, except in the event that the population of all settlements there, living in a safety zone of 15 kilometres, voted in favour of the draft in a local decisive referendum. By the way, we can say that the collection points in the border area, where a health screening may be possible, could represent a good direction. In the event that, according to your proposal, your bill does not provide for so-called security guards, we would ensure that the Hungarian civilian population does not have to contact the newcomers. That is why we can say that Italy - as my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki noted in a good way - registers in a demo, sometimes registers in order to be able to show something; Greece has obtained a discount for itself in a different way; the Czech Republic has now achieved, during the extraordinary parliamentary meeting, that it does indeed use facilitations in terms of registration. All the nation states of Europe, which are creaking and crunching, put their own interests first, and again Hungary is the eminent student who usually goes to Brussels when they call for a report and does not do what should be done in this situation. There could be two things. One would be to stop the registration already mentioned, and if this did not work, the hermetic closure of the borders would be to close it in a hermetic manner in order to prevent illegal entry into Hungary. But once again, when Fidesz criticises Brussels policy in this proposal for a decision, it does issue a certificate of poverty in relation to its own activities. There is also a legal nonsense in the proposal before us, as the presenters and authors call on the government to create financial resources and legal conditions in order to protect Hungary's borders. Please, if we want to do this, so we need a budget framework and legislative amendments, we need two things: legislation in the form of legislative proposals and amending the budget. We're seeing two things. You have submitted your legislative proposals, and by the time this proposal for a decision, where the Union is to be condemned, is adopted, these may enter into force by then; but we do not see any amending budget. So it's a hoax, a legal nonsense, a political maneuver that I don't want to see as a substitute for action. What we need to see is that very important issues should be clarified in the European field of war. For example, this week, Viktor Orbán was more than allowed for quota-like solutions in the European context, according to which the central countries would virtually skimm the arrival of migrants, the multi-diplomatic experts, and they would relocate experts to their vibrating labour markets in their own creaking and crunching demographic conditions, the others, who would not need it, even though they would spread them out in Europe by quota. [[17.40]] I would like to point out that Jobbik immediately rejects any similar idea, and will do everything in its power to prevent a newcomer from arriving here in Hungary, either by way of deportation or by quota. There is yet another danger of this, namely that those who migrate through us, who come from Afghanistan or Albanians, compared to those who come from black and African countries who are likely to be returned here by quota. So there is a much bigger series of cultural, public health conflicts and crises waiting for Hungary, if you let this happen. It should also be clarified how a pro-government representative can make a statement that one of the major challenges of Hungarian education policy is to teach migrant children in an integrated way. This is a truly amazing and self-rewarding attitude, as should you correct your own mistake with regard to the Fundamental Law, so that migrants with a positive asylum application cannot vote in Hungary, not be able to decide in local elections where, where appropriate, three to four votes can decide who should represent Hungarian people, who should decide on the allocation of resources. Finally, the government should also clarify and not with flyer-class letters sent to the EU, but with genuine, meaningful political statements and action on how it feels about the Dublin Convention. Is it finally willing to get to the point where it does not meet its requirements, as three quarters of European countries are slowly doing? And what do you say about the deportations? Are you willing to take one migrant or not? After all, one day, the government decided to suspend the Dublin regulation, the suspension is a bit of a wrong word, because it is not a convention, it is a dictatorial regulation, but the next day they have already danced back from this position, following a kind of European nanny, and we have seen that they have been floating their own views ever since. We would therefore like to clarify that. But in the meantime, while there are so many threats to the population of Hungary, Jobbik feels it is important to show up at the call of the citizens everywhere, where this problem is culminating, so that on Saturday at 15:00 a.m. before the Ministry of the Interior, in a large-scale demonstration with the participation of Gábor Vona, we express as hard as possible that Hungary will not become a national refugee host, there will not be a transit zone from Hungary, and in the long term we will protect our borders from anyone, since Hungary's Hungarian dominance can only remain so. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-136	I now give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2015-09-04-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing with Daniel Z. Carpathian's line of thought, I would like to add some important emphasis. It would be very nice to experience once that you're doing the same thing as you're told. For the past five years, we have experienced nothing but the opposite. If you say something about being black, then it's definitely white in reality, and if you say that's what we're doing, then you're definitely doing the opposite. I'm very sad about the fact that this isn't a game. This is not a domestic political game where I don't know if it's a city mayor's seat or a majority of a county assembly board. They're not small, especially for those involved. But the question here is not only the future of Europe, but also the fate of Hungary in the medium and long term. We see in the present what kind of Őscaus is, for which responsibility can be expressed towards many things, and to many people, but at present the Hungarian government is responsible for what is now in many places in Budapest, Bicskén, Röszkén, M7 and all over the country. What you always say, however, is that a national unity is necessary, a national consensus would be necessary, and I fully agree - but what would that require? By no means is it the last-minute submission of a motion for a resolution with the same arrogance as this one we are discussing. If you were serious about bringing together all the political forces of Hungary along a particular case, so that it is not a question between the various social groups of Hungary, but that everyone should be united in a minimum objective, then just as Viktor Orbán called the Presidents and Group leaders of all parliamentary parties to a meeting at the beginning of 2015 for a settlement, this could have been done now. But that's not what happened, it was arbitrary. Well, what did they say? Here, the sole responsibility is to pass on to Europe the bureaucrats of the European Union and, apparently, to its leading Member States. I am not saying that there is no truth or even very serious partial truth in it, and I am going to underline it twice, it is a partial truth, there is a very serious responsibility for the European Union that it has no substantive immigration policy, no strong identity and no immune system that would make it at all fit to defend itself, not only in the present, but in the future, and has no idea of a strategy for Europe to cope with this amazing challenge. But what you're not telling me, and I've mentioned this several times today, I'm telling you right now, if we're looking for the reasons for this situation, then we can determine the two crisis zones in the world that are now raging, two points that people have done there, and this is the cause of this amazing migration or occupation that we are experiencing here in Europe. One is the Middle East, the other is North Africa. I ask whether the European Union was the one who started conflicts in the Middle East, carried out coups, organized the Arab Spring, created the Islamic State, a terrorist organization, who led to the first one, who actually fled to save their lives, and then, obviously, with a variety of backups, with the help of a few secret service work, millions of people are now organized in the form of a global criminal organization. In addition to or without intelligence reports, two million people are waiting in Libya, two million people are waiting in Turkey, all wanting to enter the European Union. And then we didn't talk about our neighbor. Well, we still have Ukraine, which hasn't been said today. The Ukrainian conflict, if we escalate and have no illusions, will escalate, and the heat season will still come in, is a very serious reality in Ukraine's economic state that around October and December, there are hundreds of thousands, no God, millions moving from Ukraine to Western Europe, again, it will be our little task to deal with this. And you are only in these three crisis zones, Ukraine, the Middle East, North Africa, saying that it is responsible for the European Union and the various bureaucrats of the European Union. No, ladies and gentlemen. It is responsible for the United States of America and its supporting EU henchmen. And you are also responsible, and you have played a major role in giving political legitimacy to the military involvement in the Middle East, or to the events in North Africa, let us say, in an idle manner, although there are Hungarian soldiers in Africa, let us not forget that. And if you're serious about setting a common political minimum, whether it's a statement, a resolution proposal, in any other form, then let's write the truth. Then let us write down that the past years, decades of the one-sided Euroatlanticist government, without criticism, have failed, both in 2010 and in 2014, and then let us pour clear water into the glass and create a minimum of how we can correct this mistake in the future, and how Hungary will benefit from all of this. And if we put it this way, then Jobbik can say, and I think the LMP too, and maybe many others can, yes, then let's start with a clean slate, because there really are conditions today where it is not exaggeration to say that we are talking about the fate of Hungary and, by the way, also about the fate of Europe. But that is not what they are doing, but once again, as such an internal political game, they are trying to solve this by force with this arrogance that lies before us, where we say the responsible one, which is the European Union. Congressman Tessely starts scolding Dublin III, but he doesn't add that Dublin III is the only way to get rid of Dublin III. The last fine print will be held by you alone at the expense of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[17.50]]
u2015-09-04-138	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-09-04-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The strange thing is that I agree perfectly with a significant part of Congressman Tuzson's keynote speakership. It's just that I don't know why it's here, which, by the way, isn't supposed to be here. This text should first be on the European People's Party table. So it is not the first time we have witnessed Fidesz confusing the assembly of the party convention or the European party family with the Hungarian Parliament. They did so when the Hungarian Parliament issued a political statement to protect the reduction of the rent in Europe. I think it's a government or a prime minister, that if he doesn't want to lose his credibility, he won't touch such tools. The question is not how much truth exists in what is in this proposal for a resolution, it is that in a crisis, a responsible prime minister, a responsible government force, cannot behave that way. If I assume that you are right about everything, you should not represent this truth in a resolution proposal, but you should go to Berlin, Brussels, Washington and tell it there. Not least, we should not be beating the table, but, for example, we should discuss when Hungary will receive at least approximately as much EU funding to guard the Schengen border as, say, the Italians and the Greeks. At present, this is in the interests of the Hungarian people, not that Viktor Orbán is seventying his proposals for a resolution and using communication tricks in this House. This is the reason why the LMP faction will not participate in the final vote, and we will obviously not assist this puppet theatre with our vote. After all, the question is not whether what is in the proposal for a resolution is true or not, but whether it is not in a proposal for a parliamentary resolution. It's right next to the negotiating table. Of course, you also have the truth in that, and I said that myself in the main speakerial debate of the morning bill, it would be good for Hungary to stand up with a position in Brussels, on the EU stage, which has a multi-party agreement behind it. But to do that, you'd have to take the first step. We should not come here with a fidesz communication pull, but a five-party consultation on the national interest that should be represented in Brussels. This is what should have been done, and not the various proposals for decisions that have been pushed out of the Habony works. As far as the content is concerned, and what Mr Tuzson has said, I would like to add the following. I think it should be made clear that, during the period of global capitalism based on free trade, which we said last time on the Free Trade Convention, the right to decide and to decide global processes is increasingly slipping to different global large companies. In many cases, the great powers represent the interests of voters, but also of various multinational companies and global large companies. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] That is why we have come to the point that what is now called the European Union and what is often referred to as a community of values in tearful sentences is unfortunately nothing more than a common market in the past. A common market driven by the selfish profit interests of free trade, core countries and global large companies linked to the core countries. This year, the story has fallen from its nature, this is what the Greek crisis has shown, this is how the Greek people and the Greek government have been humiliated, and this is shown by the incompetence in immigration policy. And of course, Tuzson Bence has the truth about what he says here about the conflict of civilizations, but it has to be added that this conflict also comes to a great extent from the fact that the technocratic world order that these global corporations have built or intend to build does not recognise diversity. Respect for diversity is obviously one of the most important values of an ecopolitical party. The technocratic drive we're dealing with, and the technocratic push that drew the European Union and world politics in your image doesn't recognise diversity. It does not recognise diversity, and that is why behind one of the cover ideologies, the spreading of democracy, there is nothing but to unify practically the entire planet. This is what other civilizations are subjected to, to which various indigenous peoples are subjected, and to which natural resources are subject. I think that's what we're dealing with. This technocratic world order does not tolerate diversity, it wants to uniform, and the conflict, the conflict that Congressman Tuzson spoke of, comes from this, in my view. At a time when we are talking about the European Union's inertia, we are talking about the failure of Dublin III, and we also need to talk about the fact that this Europe, which is based on free trade, is naturally inadequate to take effective action on issues which, in turn, are in the interest of the European people - it has not been created to do so. The Coal and Steel Community still operates as a common market on free trade, neoliberal dogmas. That is why I asked the Hungarian Prime Minister a direct question this spring, when Hungary will raise it as a semi-peripheral country, which is now largely suffering from the selfishness of the central countries to renegotiate the Treaty of the European Union. When does the Hungarian government propose this? Viktor Orbán has bypassed the answer to this question. After all, the semi-periphery, the peripheral countries, the states of Eastern Europe and South Europe would have an interest in life, as we can see, because of its geographical location and economic inequalities, in order to finally open the question of how to put it on the table, that the European Union cannot be equal to the exploitation of peripheral countries, the market robbery of core countries and multi-enterprises. We are interested in a Europe, another Europe, which is the Europe of people. A common immigration policy could be envisaged in such a Europe, as a common code of work, a common environmental policy. That is not what the current European Union is about. Hungary is also responsible for this. The Hungarian government that provided the presidency in 2011 was responsible for no sound proposal at all; in fact, in many cases Viktor Orbán's policy was one of the sticks among the spokesmen, so that, for example, a single tax law, a uniform labour law, could be discussed in Europe. Therefore, it must also be seen that the reason why you are partially reprimanding the European Union is part of it, either by you or by the Hungarian Prime Minister. Not only because he does not fight, he does not fight in Brussels, but also because the European Union, a member of the Council of Europe, the Hungarian Prime Minister, says that Hungary wants to win the downward price and wage competition, he actually says yes to the same neoliberal dogma that brought the European Union into the current crisis. Therefore, the Hungarian government, the current Hungarian Prime Minister, is directly responsible for the European Union's inertia on several points. On the other hand, this current world order, the present nature of global capitalism, is also part of the fact that on the world political stage this crisis, which has now reached us, is one of the main responsible, yes, the United States of America. Well, if you are already texting, do not do this to Brussels alone or not to Brussels, where Hungary is supposed to be a decision-maker, there is no way around the responsibility of the United States of America. Nor what happened in North Africa, nor what happened in the Middle East, and at all, there is no way to circumvent the responsibility of the United States of America and NATO to practically look at what happened in Iraq in the name of spreading democracy: they served the profits of global large companies. That's what happened. War always serves the selfish interests of large companies. That's what's happened in the last 15 to 20 years. That's what we should be talking about for once. Honestly, honestly. And the various Hungarian governments, especially the Medgyessy government, can be mentioned here, but you also supported it, serving this imperialist policy as a slave. When are you going to face this? Letters should not be sent to the European Union. Hungary is a Member State and the Hungarian Prime Minister sits there at the Council of Europe's meetings, he initiates a summit, he can beat the table there. When are we going to suggest that there is no uncomplicated violation of international law? If once the West, America, could have done something about interfering with the standards of international law in Iraq, then what are we surprised about the fact that the most fundamental international legal standards are being violated at different points in the world? So I would like to ask Mr Tuzson and his authors to withdraw their presentation on the one hand, to sit down for a five-party discussion on what is the Hungarian national interest in the current immigration crisis, and we are partners in this. [[18.00]] And if we are to come up with a common political position, we cannot forget the United States of America, even because, like most of the Member States of the European Union, we are part of the military alliance that the United States and Canada are part of. Turkey happens to be part of this military alliance, and again, this is not an irrelevant moment. If we are talking about the current immigration crisis, it should also be said that the Joint Military Alliance is part of a country that is now providing two million refugees - refugees and non-economic immigrants - in the eastern part of Turkey, and today the Turkish Government is giving constant warning that it will not receive sufficient support for these people. Do the Hungarian government, the Hungarian services, have information about this - I tried to raise it in the previous debate when Minister Hende was still sitting here - how many immigrants knock on the Hungarian border who happen to start from Turkish camps because of the situation there and the difficulties there? Wouldn't the fundamental Hungarian interest be to fill Euroatlantic solidarity with substance once in the Euroatlantic fora, NATO, to perhaps provide Turkey with the appropriate logistical and financial support - since it would be the most natural place to provide Syrian refugees - to supply Syrian refugees with integrity, international legal standards and humanitarian principles? Wouldn't that be in Hungary's primary interest, by the way? And if we were talking about European indecision, I think it would have been fair if the representatives of the Hungarian government and the Hungarian party had put it on the table of Parliament, what concrete proposals the Hungarian government had in immigration policy or in other matters in recent years, which if the European Union had taken heed, the story would look different today. There is no reason why such proposals have not been made here, because they have not been, or at least they have not come up with them so far. It is important to see that we are not simply seeing helplessness in immigration policy. The Greek crisis, the Greek tragedy that we have witnessed in recent months, exactly shows that, as long as financial interests are concerned, the European Union is hard as stone, but at the moment, as it is in the interest of the people, in the interests of nature, the European Union does not work. This has been demonstrated by the Greek crisis, because it follows from the nature of this world order that at the ends, periphery, semi-periphery, or a austerity policy are being blackmailed from different governments or destroyed. We see the result of this, by the way, in Africa, Asia, I would add. Take a look at the third world countries that in the 1990s have followed the IMF's advice and followed where they are today! See where Mexico is today, which has become part of the North American Free Trade Zone. These questions should finally be raised and put on the table. It is not for nothing that we have talked about in today's debate that what is happening around us today is indeed closely related to what, by the way, has been said for decades in green movements, globalisation-critical movements, that nature cannot be exploited without consequences. Where chronic water scarcity occurs, where the land becomes unmanageable, where climate change makes the area of the living world unlivable, there will be regular conflicts and refugees. And now there is a situation that needs to be dealt with, but if we do not account for this deeper global crisis, or think that we are a small country, and this is not our concern, sooner or later we will be faced with major disasters that we cannot even look in the mirror, because we Hungarians here have not all done what we could have done from our own strength, from our own position in various international forums and as a Member State of the European Union. I think that is what the story is really about, and we should not come here with propaganda texts, but we should agree on a clear negotiating position on immigration policy for all Hungarian parliamentary parties. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Welcome to my fellow Members. This would be an opportunity, since we have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, to speak with independent representatives - I do not see such a thing. It's a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, notary of the Parliament.
u2015-09-04-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just very briefly, which I did not have in my speech just now, and a little further along with the logic that Mr Schiffer started. Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, had a very serious thought when he said - I did not write it literally - that the first and most important thing to solve this crisis would be that in these countries of mass creation, peace would be created. No doubt that's true. It is only then that what we have repeatedly said here, in several ways, that Hungarian foreign affairs, the Hungarian government or Hungarian diplomacy have made concrete proposals on various channels - if we are talking about those responsible and those responsible, and now I would push the European Union back, but primarily on the United States of America or on the various NATO forums - in order to ensure that, whether in North Africa or in the Middle East, the United States is financially, humanitarianly, healthly, in many ways, how it intends to repair the immeasurable damage it has caused. That didn't happen. It has not happened, and we are not talking about who caused the crisis in the Middle East and North Africa. This is important because here they're trying to put a little bit of blackmail and pressure on humane feelings, that anyone who doesn't support you and doesn't agree with you is - how should I put it? - it doesn't belong here, but that's not what this is about. It is precisely about being honest on such an important issue, yes, let us name the person responsible, we have told them who they are and how they are, and you also know exactly what they intend to do. Not that they have created a huge crisis zone, destroyed everything, human lives, and now they want us and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to pay the price for everything. This is not going to work, and the Hungarian government and Hungarian foreign affairs would be responsible for this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-04-142	I ask my fellow Members who would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted next week at 16:00. We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs of the Jobbik Group:. Clean water in the cup, or is the drinking water supply of the population safe during a possible terrorist attack? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.10]]
u2015-09-04-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The news is July that in the capital of Kosovo, Priština, the authorities arrested five people, five villains, who, as a resident of the Islamic State, were trying to infect one of the city's reservoirs. The consequences would have been inconceivable, and I think we should agree on that. While, thanks to the government's testos policy, thousands of immigrants with uncontrollable identities are flowing into Hungary, a small part of whom must have actually fled, but we also have to admit that most of them are, in fact, modern-day immigrants who are carrying out a kind of population exchange. Thanks to the government's migrant-destructive activities carried out in parallel with its policy in Tonyuty, a significant part of these appear to be stuck here in Hungary, or they will be deported here. The question of how many of these people can sympathize with the evil ideals of the Islamic State and its actions override all barbarism must be raised. This is why the issue of the safety of the Hungarian population in this situation is obvious and justified. It also happened at the end of July, with the news at the end of July that post-sampling measurements showed severe clostridium infection in Barcsi drinking water, as well as the presence of other pathogenic indicators. For this reason, the services of DRV Zrt. and public health authorities imposed an immediate and three-week ban on drinking water in the city, as well as in the two settlements associated with it, Drávaszentes and Somogytarnóca. Contamination involving some 12,000 people raises serious questions. By the way, on 31 August, DRV was responsible for an agent at an extraordinary meeting of the city's body of representatives, which I myself participated in, providing information on the developments that have so far taken place. In parentheses, I would note that in countries with a better history of development in the world, it would not otherwise be a shame that, following such a crisis, no one from the management of a company with a 90% state share would be represented in front of the city's elected body of representatives or its mayor. There I told you that it was appropriate to leave the air-conditioned office in Siófok, and, say, a 150 kilometers to appear before the council. It was precisely you, dear members of the government, who said that more respect was given to the Hungarians. It would be good if the parachute leaders of the state companies could sense and understand this, so more respect for the South Somogyans and more respect for the people of Barch. In light of what's happened, it's clear that there's a gap somewhere in the drinking water shield. With regard to the reasons, the experts, the authorities are still in the dark one month after the events. DRV condemns illegal public bonding and charges have been filed against an unknown unsub. However, following the logic of this, we can say that anywhere, anyone, can put anything into the system, and that is why questions are being asked. So I'm asking you if our country's growing terrorist threat is aware of the government's proper defence strategy for such cases, whether the public's drinking water supply is safe, whether they can protect the network, if only the questions about the current unparalleled barous events are in order and the investigation is in place. In addition, the current press report, which has not been denied, says: less wages, a group reduction in water workers is expected. The Ministry of National Development, as owner, is planning a 10% wage reduction and a parallel group reduction in the state-owned water utility association. What does this mean for DRV, responsible for the drinking water supply of 810 thousand people? This DRV has at least 2,200 employees. In this case, at least 200-250 employees will be disposed of. And here is another question, ladies and gentlemen: in the case of state-owned water utilities, how will the dismantling planned by the government and the Ministry of National Development affect the quality of service and how will it affect the safety of drinking water supply? Thank you very much.
u2015-09-04-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 21 September 2015. Thank you for your two-day work. Thank you for the minutes and for the work of the staff of the Parliament's Office. The meeting's closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 6:14 p.m.]]
