u2015-02-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. István Tiba and notaries Dezső Believing will help me in the leadership of the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert to the benches of the governing parties, say that there is no presumption of innocence.]] Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech:. The State of Foreign Affairs. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-02-23-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak today because I would like to see a dramatic consequence of the changes that are taking place in the world if we could also exchange ideas with the parliamentary parties here among the benches of Parliament. This dramatic consequence of the world's changes is the threat of terrorism, which is felt daily at global level, and the level of threat is constantly increasing. From a European or Hungarian point of view, I can say that the shocking events of the past period have also made it clear that there has never been such a direct and close terrorist threat to us. Paris and Copenhagen have made it clear that we are not facing some kind of distant foggy challenge here, not a case on which procrastination could be allowed. Community and official media reports make it clear to everyone around the world that the brutal attacks by the Islamic State terrorist organization are a serious threat to the world. The terrorist organization Islamic State is now threatening the stability of the entire Middle East region and endangering the very existence of Christian communities in that region. Terrorists are surrounded by persecution of Christian communities and other minority groups in the region and mass violence at the border of genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, In the summer of 2014, 200,000 Christians had to flee from their own homes because of the brutal attacks that were more severe than ever before. The UN report published in October 2014 has already reported 24,000 deaths in Iraq, with 5,000 deaths in attacks specifically against minority communities and reports of 7,000 women and children abducted. In the summer of last year, in the autumn, the brutal execution of journalists and relief workers became the focus of attention, but we met another level of cruelty when videos of the Jordanian pilot being burned alive were posted on the web. Since then, the Islamic State has launched further attacks and has carried out actions in Algeria, Lebanon and the Sinai Peninsula. The regional expansion of the terrorist organization and its systematic action against Christians were a clear sign that 21 Egyptian Coptic Christians were beheaded. I've instructed our country's ambassador in Cairo to contact the leaders of the Coptic Church, which has happened. On the basis of the signals received from them, the family of the 21 executed family heads asked for support to provide minimum financial assistance to start their own small business, so we have taken action to ensure that the Hungarian Government of the 21 executed Egyptian Coptic Christian families provides 500-500 euros of support to enable them to start a sustainable independent life. We have done this in the spirit of Christian solidarity, for which we have also received great recognition and appreciation from the international community and the Coptic Church in response. We must make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that those responsible cannot get away with serious punishments, so we have sent a letter to the Attorney General of the International Criminal Court to investigate the execution of Coptic Christians on the basis of his mandate since 15 February 2011, which is to investigate the bloody events in Libya. Ladies and gentlemen, The threat to global security of the Islamic State is clear, which is being fought by an international coalition. Hungary, since it condemns, as strongly as possible, the acts committed by the Islamic State contrary to all the values that we respect, we are also involved in coalition efforts, humanitarian aid, the provision of presence in Erbíl and the offer of 224 tons of ammunition so far. However, the brutal events of the past period make it clear that international efforts against the Islamic State and terrorism need to be increased, so the Government of Hungary has initiated a consultation with the parliamentary parties to increase our contribution to the success of the efforts of the international coalition. We see a realistic opportunity to contribute to military stability in Kurdistan. In Kurdistan, our allies maintain training and training bases, and they must be kept under constant guard. Our international defence contributions so far have been greatly appreciated, and therefore, in the course of our possible engagement, a decision must be taken which is the country's [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] It is also consistent with its budgetary capacity, its risk-taking potential and its defence capabilities. After consulting the parliamentary parties, we will, of course, take the decision in the closest possible consultation and cooperation with our closest allies. We call on the parliamentary parties to adopt their positions as soon as possible to increase our contribution to international efforts against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-2	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Speaking on the part of the political groups is possible within a two-minute timeframe. First, Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group, spoke. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-02-23-3	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, Christians are persecuted for their faith. There is genocide against Christians in areas controlled by ISIS. Apocalyptic conditions prevail, ISIS destroys Christian holy places and either kills or drives away the native Christian population of the area. Christians were given an ultimatum either to pay the $450 monthly head tax - which they could not pay if they wanted - or to convert to Islam or to die. Dear Minister, In support of what you have said, the KDNP parliamentary group specifically urges the Hungarian State to use all its power to prevent the lives of millions of innocents of hatred and exclusion. The KDNP stands up for the persecuted and calls on extremists to stop violence immediately and stop attacks on Christians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group, has called for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-02-23-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Once again, I thank you for the opportunity to discuss before the agenda the foreign policy situation and the Hungarian perception of foreign policy events in the world. Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the government in its efforts to create peace in the world. [[11.10]] Of course, we support this in all cases, not only when Christians are being attacked by such attacks and genocide against Christians, it is, of course, the most painful for us, but it must be seen that the terrorist acts of ISIS affect Muslims in the region in the same way, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary raised its voice even when it was directed against all religions and directed against all peoples. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary was the first to remind the government that the activity of the ISIS and the Islamic terrorist state has not come to its head in recent weeks, it is one of the consequences of a phenomenon in the world, and it would be very good to abandon the foreign policy that Hungary has been pursuing over the last two decades, according to which it follows the dictatorships of the West and the dictatorships of its allies in a servitude. When ISIS and this kind of extremist Islam in the Middle East came to its head, the Hungarian government was still on the side of the Middle Eastern terrorist states, which financed the forces against Assad and against Assad, and was on the West's side when they supported the overthrow of Syria with money, media propaganda and weapons, which was very well known to spread as wildfire in Iraq, which was destabilized by the West, in Afghanistan, which was destabilized and feared by the West. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that this terror will spread in Europe as well. [[The president's ringing again.]] That is why we are asking the government to redefine its foreign policy and open a new chapter in Hungary's foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-02-23-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I listened to the Minister, one thing occurred to me: that was not what should have been discussed, but when he resigned from his position as Minister of Foreign Affairs, because, at the time of your ministry, Hungarian foreign policy led the country to a dead end with the support of the Prime Minister, from which it was necessary to withdraw as quickly as possible. Today, foreign policy is characterised by chaos and isolation, and you have caused this. [[L. Simon László: This total insensitiveness!]] Let us be talking about the opening of the East, which has been spectacularly failing in recent years, which also means that you say that pragmatic, good economic relations with Russia must be pursued, compared to this, our exports have decreased by 15 percent over the past few years. [[An uproar in the pro-government ranks.]] So, apparently, no economic indicator justifies the policy you chose beyond the values you chose. Good economic relations, Minister Szijjártó, please, are not equal to turning away from our Euroatlantic values; more Russia cannot mean less Europe and less NATO for Hungary. The Hungarian people decided 25 years ago that they wanted to belong to the Western world, they wanted to belong to the European Union, and their conviction has not changed in the last 25 years, even if there are many problems in this area. Then, not to mention, you've eliminated professionalism from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the analysis-based decision-making, and placed various horsemen in a position of luck. A series of scandals can be seen in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I am thinking of Szilárd Kiss, who went to prison and was your diplomat, who dealt with visas in Russia, thus increasing the security risk of the Schengen area. That is why I think, Minister, that you have one job to do, that you should draw conclusions from this and resign, and that Hungary must take a new foreign policy turn very quickly, so that this chaos and total isolation will ease against Hungary. After all, those old friends from Poland who came here to protest for Viktor Orbán in Hungary did not welcome the Hungarian Prime Minister because they said it was embarrassing to talk to the Hungarian Prime Minister because he was disrupting European solidarity. [[The president's ringing the bell. László Kovács with MSZMP KB is not embarrassing for you! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why I think, Minister, that...
u2015-02-23-8	Congressman, your two-minute time frame is long over, please stop.
u2015-02-23-9	... there is a great deal of work to be done in this area, so we expect the Minister to announce when he will resign and when the Hungarian Government will change this foreign policy. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-10	Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has spoken in a two-minute time frame, I give the floor.
u2015-02-23-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In addition to the truth of Attila Mesterházy's criticism of all isolation, we thank Minister for the information, of course. There are two things I would like to say before you. On 30 July last year, the LMP, specifically my fellow Member Ikotity, first announced that it drew attention to the persecution of Christians in Iraq in Parliament, among the parliamentary parties. The other thing that should be pointed out is that action against the Islamic State should start with a clear understanding of where this terrorist organisation receives financial, human and not least technical reinforcements. Hungary should work closely with the other Member States of the European Union on this issue. There is a need for more Europe in terms of security policy, anti-terrorist action, but until we know exactly what the financial resources are, what the technical resources are, and what the picture is not clear about the supply of personnel, the situation is very difficult not only for Hungary but also for the European Union. After the Charlie Hebdo bombing, the LMP took your offer seriously that Hungary would have a national anti-terrorism programme, instead they made the demagogic campaign against immigrants. We have put on the table the proposals that make the Hungarian Criminal Code suitable for stopping the various people passing through Hungary and heading towards the Islamic State. We should move in this direction, and I would ask the honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs to act within the government and within the Fidesz faction to have a five-party dialogue for a national counter-terrorism strategy, to cooperate and to stop the campaign of haughtiness against immigrants. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, Fidesz Group, in a two-minute timeframe.
u2015-02-23-13	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to point out that in the last few weeks, if there was something about Hungarian diplomacy, the Hungarian foreign policy - with Merkel's visit, Putin's visit, and whatnot - it was a completely factual and tangible denial of the accusations of isolation. Secondly, in the context of the terrorist threat, it is very important for the victims of Paris, Copenhagen, the Islamic State to be clear that this is not a time of legal debate, but a time of clear solidarity with the victims, including with the European Jewish communities. Religion is apparently just an excuse for terrorists, and religion has nothing to do with these Islamist terrorists. Thirdly, I would like to welcome the emphasis of the government on the situation of Christian communities. Indeed, genocide is the most appropriate term for their situation, somewhat reminiscent of the persecution of primitive Christians, and we welcome the practical assistance measures aimed at helping Christian communities on either a material or a diplomatic level. Finally, I also consider it essential that Hungary participates in the international military coalition efforts against the Islamic State. We are looking forward to the government's initiative to allow negotiations on the basis of a concrete proposal. I believe that the proposal to promote the defence of military stability in Kurdistan, with the skills that Hungary has achieved over the past decades, is a good basis for Hungary's participation in this international effort. So we look forward to the request, and I trust that with a broad parliamentary unit, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We'll be able to make that decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.20]]
u2015-02-23-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda today, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group:. Who benefited from the 2 billion real estate purchase of the Hungarian Academy of Arts? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-02-23-15	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Last November a government decision was issued, according to which the Hungarian State helps the Hungarian Academy of Arts to buy real estate by more than HUF 2 billion. In the 2014 budget, such an amount was suddenly transferred so that MMA could buy a new office building. The new property eventually became Andrássy Road headquarters of the Association of Hungarian Journalists. The events followed each other very quickly, and a number of questions came up about the billion-dollar purchase of real estate. The Possibly Other Politics has looked into things, we asked for previous rental contracts and the new sales contract for MMA with a public interest request. Previously, MMA rented itself hundreds of square meters of office from Kristályház Kft. The lease contract was very often modified, the monthly rent and the rental area were constantly changed. The interesting thing, however, is the recent purchase of real estate, on which MMA previously stated that the expansion of public body activity made it necessary to choose a building with an adequate infrastructure background. According to the sales agreement requested by LMP, six properties were purchased, so MMA would move to a total of 4269 sq m, while the former office building was initially occupied only ten times more than three years ago. The total purchase price was EUR 6.7 million, which is almost exactly the same as the amount transferred according to the government decision, calculated on the exchange rate of 309 HUF. Which means they got exactly as much money to buy the property as the real estate cost. This suggests that they have received the funds for the property they have already selected, whatever it takes, rather than looking for real estate on the basis of the available funds. In addition, we managed to purchase an extremely ruinous office ensemble. It has not yet been established how much money will have to be spent on this, if I would like to use it, because it is not in use at the moment. But there's something else weird. LMP found further interesting information about the purchase of real estate. According to the sales agreement, the building was purchased from Firstfund Investment Fund Management Ltd. This company is the successor of the real estate investor SCD, who previously purchased the camping on the Lake Balaton, the airport in Sármellék and several properties in Budapest. Among the former leaders of the company we will also find Kristóf Nobilis, Deputy Chairman of the Curatorium of the Századvég, Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky or the close relative of András Giro-Szász. In fact, Zsolt Koltai, who signed the contract by Firstfund, is the former managing director of the recently fallen Széchenyi Bank. LMP sent a number of questions to MMA because it wants to understand why such a company had to buy this expensive and unusable property. We're still waiting on these questions, but we're still on schedule. We would like to know, among other things, if there were any other alternatives, what market survey was carried out, who was discussed, who was asked to be a valuer to determine the value of the National Association of Hungarian Journalists. What is the explanation for the fact that this property costs exactly the same amount as the MMA was pre-installed for this purpose? What are the additional tasks that often require more real estate than before? We are waiting for the answers of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Dear House, Millions of people in Hungary do not have access to basic cultural goods. The aim of the LMP is to ensure access to cultural values for all, and to create cultural value for all. Culture is an important tool for social inclusion, the fourth pillar of sustainability. We find it extremely sad that instead of supporting millions of people's access to culture, the government is creating several museum quarters for HUF 10 billion from a large part of Városliget, moving Viktor Orbán to the Castle in the same order of magnitude, or supporting the suspicious property purchase of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which seriously divides Hungarian artistic life. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-02-23-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him who he wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári reporting.]] On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2015-02-23-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In addition to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the government considers it important to support the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the other public body that represents the artistic society, which is also named in the Fundamental Law. Pursuant to Article X of the Fundamental Law, the Government respects the freedom of artistic life and thus the autonomy of the MMA, which includes the choice of the public body of the facilities necessary for the performance of its tasks. The Hungarian Academy of Arts performs a number of public tasks, such as the promotion, preservation and creation of the values of Hungarian and universal culture, contributes to the maintenance and public domain of the Hungarian art tradition, and helps art education and artistic training. These are important public tasks that can only be provided smoothly if the academy has adequate buildings. With the purchase of real estate, a long-off-use, ruined monument building has a meaningful function, located on Andrássy Street, on the UNESCO World Heritage List. This is also an important aspect, as one of the most cultic properties of Hungarian culture can be one of the main centres of artists. Since March 2012, MMA and its secretariat have been operating in the Kristályház in Vörösmarty tér, which is a rental from Kristályház Kft., as you mentioned in your speech. The Crystal House as a condominium was originally built as a business centre, and accordingly the building cannot fully perform office building functions. The property is also very expensive as a rental - you did not mention it, but it was 120 million forints in 2014 - and does not provide the possibility of long-term planning either, as it is rent and not property. In view of this, it has become necessary to select a building which provides an infrastructure background for the public body and administrative operation of the MMA and to plan and schedule the relocation of the institution. The 2013 CLVII on certain issues related to the operation of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. According to the Act, the Parliament passed the Pesti Vigadó on 1 January 2014 into the property of the MMA, which from then on became the headquarters of the MMA. However, Vigadó's building is not suitable for public administration, as it has only a small number of offices with a maximum capacity of 20-25 staff, which is fully filled in by the capacity to operate Vigadó. The MMA wanted to solve the placement primarily by taking over state-owned property, but the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. could not offer real estate in accordance with a well-founded need, so there was no such real estate in a portfolio of state, MMV Zrt. The MMA then contacted the Metropolitan Municipality, and the Metropolitan Municipality also did not own the right property. The municipality of District V was then contacted, and the municipality of District V was also unable to offer public property, which would have been suitable, and was then contacted by the VI. the district, Terézváros municipality, but the consultation with the municipality of Terézváros was not successful either, so they could not find the property in good public ownership of the district and the Municipality of Metropolitan. The property suitable for providing an infrastructure background is the two-building Andrássy Avenue complex, which used to operate as the MÚOSZ building. After the valuation and valuation of the property, MMA, the secretariat of the Hungarian Academy of Arts initiated price negotiations with the seller, resulting in a price reduction of EUR 400 thousand, according to their information. The MMA General Assembly held on 15 October 2014 authorised the President of the MMA to sign the contract in the event of a government decision on the source and an agreement on the sale of the selected property. The legal situation of the property and the seller has been analysed, which has led to the conclusion that there is no reason to exclude the conclusion of the sales contract. We believe that the Hungarian state has benefited from the purchase of real estate because, as I mentioned earlier, a cult building has become the property of the Hungarian state, the Hungarian community. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman. [[11.30]]
u2015-02-23-19	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In recent months, left-wing parties, especially the MSZP, have launched a campaign to make the governing parties, the government, anti-poor in front of Hungarian society. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: No need.]] Of course, there is no way and time in a speech before the agenda to analyse this socialist campaign for several months in every detail, but I am still trying to explain the position of the KDNP on some basic points. It is considered immoral and unacceptable to use the situation of those in need for hatred and party political purposes. Nevertheless, in recent months, the hate-splatter on the left has persisted by using the situation of poor people and families to take advantage of their own selfish political interests. He did this by doing nothing for those in need during their government. This is not only said by us, not only by budgetary figures, but also by the respected left-wing expert Zsuzsa Ferge. The previous government, in 2008, Hungary was almost the only state, with a crisis, which didn't cross anything at all, not a single match, so that something would happen to the obvious known losers of the crisis. So far, the quote. Dear House, Dear Socialist Fraction! This means that you do not have a moral basis to undermine the efforts of the governing parties, the government, the measures taken to protect those in need, or to make cynical remarks on this issue. Our position is to talk less and do more to reduce poverty. Over the past four years, the government has sought to do much more than its predecessors. We have implemented a more active public responsibility, in which we have introduced a number of measures that have helped families in need. Thanks to the family tax system, we have strengthened the situation of families, with the introduction of different careers, we have given a new vision to public employees living on wages and salaries, and we have reduced the cost of families by starting a reduction in the costs. With the help of public employment programmes, the state is increasingly giving people jobs instead of aid. As a result of the systematic work started in 2010, more people were able to break out of poverty risk in 2013, according to KSH data, the number of people at risk of poverty in Hungary decreased by a quarter million. Following the crisis, the government stopped the fall, and Hungary stopped growing child poverty in relation to the last three years. Just a few examples. We have doubled budget resources over the last few years for children's meals. We have broadened the operation and operating programs of the children's homes, the children's risk program, the schools. We continued and expanded the social land programme and the social firewood programme, introduced and started the Erzsébet programme in Hungary. Dear Parliament, In summary, instead of providing aid, we want to provide people with work, social protection, and a chance and a catch-up in terms of public education for those in need. In a previous speech, I welcomed István Hiller's proposal to his party. I quote: "Change your policy - I mean the MSZP - to date, consider the issues of public work and aid, because a left-wing party cannot be against the income earned by work. We agree on that. Finally, we consider it extremely important that the fight against poverty requires personal, individual motivation, individual responsibility, that families themselves want and are able to translate their fate to the better. They should take responsibility for themselves and their relatives. The responsibility and determination of the government is not enough to create this thinking and this motivated environment; cooperation between the opposition, municipalities, civil society and churches is also needed. As long as there will be a poor, needy person in Hungary, fellow Members, we must take on this shared responsibility and cooperation. That's what we Christian Democrats will do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-23-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think none of us can imagine poverty being held back by a government, but not for employment policy. It is not possible to reduce poverty to or below a minimum level without doing so for full employment. It is unthinkable that hundreds of thousands of people are unemployed, while poverty in one country can be eradicated and repressed. So it would be good if we could finally agree, after four and a half years, that the most important step against poverty is to create jobs for each government. In terms of job creation, this government is at the forefront if we look at the last 25 years, 400 thousand more people are working now than four and a half years ago, with 150,000 people falling unemployment. These people already have the opportunity to move from poverty to decent poverty or a slightly lighter way of life. After all, if they receive at least one public employee's salary through a work income, then for a father with a single child it is worth more than HUF 70,000, which he will take home, and if he is employed at least on a minimum wage, then the minimum wage is already over HUF 100,000. It is also typical of the difference between left-wing and right-wing governments that it is always the right-wing governments that raise the minimum wage to a much greater extent so that working people, people who live from everyday work, do not have to live in poverty. Somehow, the increase in the minimum wage under left-wing governments always slows down, always accelerates during the Fidesz-KDNP administration. In the first period, the then Fidesz civilian government raised the minimum wage from HUF 17,000 to HUF 50,000. In eight years, the socialists were able to raise this 50 thousand forints to a total of 70 thousand forints, and now it is well over 100 thousand forints. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] - twice, three times. If you look at past government cycles, say, from 98 and aggregate, twice or three times the rate that the Fidesz-KDNP administration is doing at the minimum wage, i.e. for the benefit of the smallest wage earners, as the left-wing government is doing. But we are well aware that MSZP governments may have deliberately not done enough to reduce the number of people living in the poor line, as opposed to Fidesz-KDNP, quoted by the Member, with a reduction of 241 thousand in the number of people exposed to poverty in Hungary, which is welcome. But there must be plenty of other repairs to be made here. For the socialists, maintaining the aid system seems to be important for political pragmatism, and the acquisition of votes through the aid system is also part of their policy, and therefore they are not interested in reducing this group. The failure of the socialist government in social policy is not for us to say. It was Zsuzsa Ferge, who quoted by them and the Member, who issued the failed certificate of socialist governments, that they were the only ones in Europe who did nothing at the time of the crisis, but did nothing for the groups that were the losers of the crisis, in Hungarian, for the least money, for the poor people who had some kind of support. During the socialist period, no positive action has been taken in Hungary, although positive action has been taken elsewhere in Europe. I also think that the government's attitude is well characterised by the fact that the first approved operational programme for 2014-2020, the EU support framework for Hungary, which was adopted by Brussels, was precisely the food package programme or, in its longer European name, an operational programme to support people in need. With this very significant budget of tens of billions, we wish for those who are in the most difficult situation, either because they are homeless or because they were born into a family where young children aged between 0 and 3 are unable to provide sufficient care, or people in other difficult social situations - well, their 30+4 billion HUF programme was the first to be accepted by Hungary in Brussels during the 2014-20 development period. But the measures that we have taken before are not just a good feature of the reduction in the number of people at risk of poverty of the said 241 thousand people. Those who have lived in severe material deprivation have also fallen by hundreds of thousands. If you just look at how many people have a back payment or some kind of credit debt, their number fell by 130,000 between 2011 and 2013. [[11.40]] If you look at how many people live in apartments that are not properly heated, their number also decreased by 250,000 between 2011 and 2013. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They don't have an apartment anymore, that's why!]] From these figures, and from positive employment data, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Why do these people have more hope now? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda with the title Bridge to the world of double-talk. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, I directed an interpellation to the government, specifically to the Prime Minister, which was about musing behind the program series "bridge to the world of work," and at that time, I think the Secretary of State Rétvári has raised misunderstandings to amazing heights as a genre, because we talked about everything, I got answers to everything, he tried to explain all the forints in another breakdown - gross net and vice versa - how it really happens. Then a fellow Member of the LMP also asked an immediate question on a similar subject; at that point, János Lázár replied, who did not try to protect the indefensible for a minute, but rather showed the need for investigations. Therefore, I would ask now - whether I do not know who will answer, perhaps again the Secretary of State - that next time they should negotiate, at least within the government, a minimum subject with the statement, but not so much in conflicting matters. But the point is, we were talking about, or asking questions about, how it is possible for the government to tolerate everything that is going on behind the responsibility of the National Roma Municipality, Lungo Drom or Flórian Farkas, which is the disappearance of millions or millions or hundreds of millions of public funds. This is interesting, because let's not forget that Flórián Farkas is also a prime minister, so if you like, he represents the Prime Minister himself in this area; this is the responsibility - to say the least. What did you say in 2013? - just to make it clear what's going on. What did Flórián Farkas say at a meeting of the National Roma Municipality in 2013, where this project was concerned? Literally, I quote from the record:, we will try to keep this money or something more for you Members. It is not a question of how to keep this money or even more from a certain framework for Members: it is possible with a series of depraved tricks, priced calls and priced public procurement. But Flórián Farkas went on later, one of the unofficial aims of the Employment Alliance at the same assembly - he talked about - was to get Roma politicians, minorities and representatives to work, and he said that: "If you listen well, there will be no questions, because everyone will understand the words of time. Well, we understand the word of time, but the government doesn't seem to understand it. It seems that the government can tolerate anything for minority votes, any level of multi-million-dollar theft, fraud, and lies so that they can have cheap votes in elections. It is painful for you that not only the Kubatov list in the Veszprém constituency has failed, but you have not been able to live with it in terms of ethnic proportions. But to mention some new things that were not mentioned last week, for example, what jobs have been created in connection with this project. The project manager receives a half-time allowance of HUF 1.2 million per month. Assistants also receive 450,000 forints, and administrators receive 350,000 forints. That's amazing. The bulk of suspicious spending, incredible theft, fraud and corruption, is all that is currently aimed at Roma policy or, as the Secretary of State has just said, the elimination of poverty on the part of the government. And we are talking about only HUF 600 million, that is what can be found on Kozbeszerzes.hu, but this is a $5 billion project - this is a five billion project - and we do not know anything about 4.5 billion. The big question is what the government or your control agencies are waiting for. You're gonna wait for her to be tied up in the 4.4 billion-haired style to do similar things? That 25-26 plus 30 million have to be paid for studies that Roma local government leaders in the county would actually do for free and in exchange for wages? I can't believe what they're doing. And once again, just for the record, this is the style you represent. If someone is making legitimate, presumedly legitimate questions and criticisms to you for crimes, then they are always, in each case, in a daring, arrogant way [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They're trying to copy it and not talk about the point. This is what will cause your failure not only in this area [[The president's ringing again.]] It's everywhere else. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-23-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the one hand, you were no longer here in that part of the previous meeting, which you seem to have only heard from hearing, or perhaps read parts of the minutes, since both of these answers were in line, and we had the opportunity to speak before both. So what you're saying comes from what you're saying, honourable Member, is that you're on one side of the sitting, you're not on the other side, and you're just imagining something you weren't here on. However, I will tell you the point, it seems that you have failed to read the Parliamentary minutes, you have failed to listen to your fellow Members, who are here against you at the entire Parliamentary meeting. [[Crying from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] and not just stand up and leave the Chamber after their own question. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We were all here last Monday!]] So, honourable Member, you have also been invited by the National Roma Municipality to go and look at this project on the spot. Look around you. Look at those results [[Call from Jobbik: kozbeszerzes.hu!]] which have been created and which you listed in your interpellation last time, those different items! Look at the physical reality. Check the site, check the location of this project yourself. Take advantage of this opportunity - you have made many accusations here in the last few minutes, the accusations about your previous speech have turned out to be all right, only the specifics do not, because you may actually buy seven computers, only not 21 million, but 1 million, which is a significant difference between the accusations you have made and the facts. - so that you can clarify similar misunderstandings, or if they weren't misunderstandings, they were real mistakes, and then they should be revealed. Visit the National Roma Municipality [[Adam Mirkóczki: We stole the money?]] and confront the charges he has made here, those involved in the implementation of the project And then it turns out that what you said is real or not real. The objectives of the project itself, as you know, are very useful, as I would just like to mention to you what degree we would like to have in the field of training, for which we have received state support or EU support: plumbing, woodworking, sculpting carpenter, waterproofing, heating, vegetable and fruit processing, trained sewing, trained kitchen accompaniment. If someone gets these skills, I think it's a pretty good direction. Much progress has also been made in relation to the project. If you doubt any of them, go there, see the site, and you have received the invitation from the National Roma Municipality as well as any LMP representative. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Where is the money? Zoltán Grimlock: Where's the money?]] The one you can go there with. One of the objectives of the project is to develop and prepare the operation of the organisation and infrastructure necessary for the establishment of an employment cooperative providing national coverage, to which procurement under the project is intended to contribute; the project is still under way. Without these conditions, the further activities undertaken by the project - recruitment and training - would not have been possible. More than 1,200 people participated in training for the development of competences related to the functioning of the social economy, and as of spring 2015, a further thousand will participate in accredited and OKJ trainings that fit the needs. On 18 February 2015, a high level of consultation took place between consortium partners, which agreed that ORÖ would provide the necessary information for the launch of training to the other consortium partner, NGM, with a narrow deadline, so that the training will start in April for thousands of people in need. [[11.50]] The aim is to ensure that at least six hundred of the thousands successfully complete the typical OKJ or other professional trainings; and the idea is to acquire the qualifications that I have just listed for you. In addition, there are many others, but I think that this is important in an exemplary way. The project has already had various activities. The infrastructure and operating conditions of the employment cooperative have been established. In March 13, the employment cooperative was formed with 500 members. [[György Szilágyi: The President of the Republic is ringing the bell.]] which currently has 700 members. I think that's important, because that's what makes it possible for many people to break out. As I said, 1200 people have already participated in the development of competences in the operation of the social economy, and 2800 more will be involved, and this will continue to expand from spring 2015. Once the training has been completed, the participants will be members of the employment cooperative and then be associated with the employment cooperative and thus become active members of the labour market. I hope and trust that this is your goal, too. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to make these people involved active members of the labour market [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Honor to Flórian Farkas!]] and, in this regard, feel free to conduct an on-site inspection [[The president's ringing again.]] there at the ORÖ project sites. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, MSZP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:.Two-thirds of Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-02-23-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the last quarter, we can rightly conclude that we are at a turning point. The MSZP was able to beat Fidesz and Jobbik alone. And the Veszprém voters made history yesterday. In two respects, on the one hand, the two-thirds of Hungary ended, and, on the other hand, for the first time in many decades, a civilian, independent, party-supported candidate won the mandate yesterday in the constituency of Veszprém. Ladies and gentlemen, Soon we will be able to welcome a representative in the house of the country who is the first publisher of the new era. [[What passport do you have?]] The message of yesterday's election is that the two-thirds can be broken down, and the Fidesz can be defeated. This requires a courageous stand on which our fellow Member Zoltán Készt has demonstrated. [[How many passports do you have?]] He was relentlessly, ruthlessly attacking the corrupt system of Fidesz and did not compromise with any extreme political force. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] And yes, my fellow Members, it also required the attitude of the MSZP, as it was ready and able to support the independent candidate chosen by the street, civil society. Because it was more important for the MSZP to create a change in the country than the independent party interest of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Now the power of Hungary has finally been shown to be diverse and open. Thanks to the voters of Veszprém, thanks to Zoltán Kész. On Saturday, my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös said that on Sunday the south wind will bring the storm that will take the tiles from the house of Fidesz. This storm has come. But it didn't just destroy, it built. This storm has brought spring, but, fellow Members, it has brought hope and chance as soon as possible. [[Lajos Kósa: A poet is lost in you!]] The proportions clearly show, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a significant majority of those who want to change in Hungary today, and the left-wing Democrat sympathizers have all gone to vote, and the former sympathizers of Fidesz have remained at home. Ladies and gentlemen, Almost half of your voters stayed at home. It would be worth considering that while you are dealing with each other, you are playing your power games, while trying to minimize the importance of two thirds; Lajos Kósa was just talking about not wanting to win, two thirds are irrelevant. This is of great importance, my fellow Members. There are some decisions that will require two thirds of them, and on the other hand, it is symbolic that your two-thirds government ended in political terms yesterday. And we will be watching, fellow Members, whether independent or oppositional, which part of you will be willing to support two thirds of you. They will be seen as traitors to the democratic opposition, the builders of democratic Hungary. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Wow!]] The victory in Veszprém is also the message of the victory of free Hungary. There have been many attempts in recent months and even in days to threaten and manipulate; we find it unacceptable that journalists can be threatened and that we also consider it appropriate to intervene with the Budapest Police Commissioner, and I would ask the Minister of Interior, through Secretary Kontra, to examine the matter in substance, to initiate an investigation to clarify the matter. Another lesson from the Veszprém election is that Jobbik is not really the hope of the changelings, because the voters feel and know that Jobbik and Fidesz come from one source. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In the same way, Azerbaijan and Russia are seen as role models, Eastern opening is considered conceivable, and they want illiberal democracy instead of democracy and the European Union. The worlds of Fidesz and Jobbik are now growing together, speaking one language, and this language is not the language of Hungary. [[Dr. István Apáti: Everyone speaks Hungarian in their native language!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Veszprém is the beginning of a process, the change has begun. And the Hungarian Socialist Party undertakes to be the engine of this change, because we cannot stop, we will work on Ajka and Tapolca [[Dr. Gyula Budai: You dare not go!]] to make it clear that Hungary [[Dr. Gyula Budai: You didn't have a candidate!]] It is not in the numbers and sentences that my fellow Member from Szászfalvi said, but in the camp of those living below the 4 million living minimums who do want to change in Hungary. [[László Szászfalvi: Talk to Zsuzsa Ferge!]] That's what Veszprém was about. And the next thing you know, it's on Aika. [[György Szilágyi: My candidate for MSZP!]] Thank you for listening.
u2015-02-23-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-23-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, [[Lajos Kósa: Welcome, poet!]] Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, allow me to congratulate Zoltán Kész, the winner of the weekend election on behalf of both the Fidesz and KDNP fractions and on behalf of the government. [[Zoltán Pride: Bravo! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Secondly, allow me to thank in this forum, Parliament, for the support of all the voters who voted for the candidate of our parliamentary alliance. And thank you for the work of those who have done everything in their power, whether they are activists or members of our party alliance, who have done everything in their power to make our candidate as good as possible. The weekend has clearly demonstrated that all the accusations, all the opposition claims that we have made over the past four years regarding the reform and law of our electoral rights have been unfounded. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] There seems to be democracy in Hungary, the opinion and will of the voters can prevail; apparently, we have passed a law that provides an opportunity for disgruntled, Protestant votes to prevail with us. So, first of all, I ask the Socialist Group and President Tobias to follow us, because in recent years, that electoral rights system has been wrongly criticised. [[József Tobias: We are criticizing that right now!]] which, by the way, passed the exam well yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it does not follow that we will not draw the lessons; we will draw them, and if the correction is necessary, we will think about what to do. But one thing is certain: yesterday's election was not a parliamentary election across the country. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Well?]] but an interim election, where the citizens of the settlements of Veszprém and Veszprém chose a representative. [[Forebod Novak: Is that the government's position or Fidesz's?]] We can promise from here that the government will continue to be next to the inhabitants of the villages in Veszprém and in the vicinity of Veszprém, and we will do everything we can to ensure the prosperity and development of the people in that region. I also felt some confusion in President Tobias' speech before the agenda: a candidate who is civilian, independent and supported by parties. It's hard to do this together. [[Zoltán Lukács: Really? Start getting used to it.]] Now you can either be independent or supported by parties. We are curious to know where Zoltán Kész will be seated in Parliament. Don't let it go to you, President Tobias, that the candidate whom you have raised and glorified here should finally sit next to Ferenc Gyurcsány, because anything can happen. One thing is certain, Zoltán Kész did not take your support, he wasn't thinking of running in MSZP colors. [[12.00]] So I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where have you been lately?]] before they hold a big-great victory ceremony here, that the Socialist Party did not win the weekend election, and Ferenc Gyurcsány did not win the weekend election. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik did not win the election either; my fellow Members who are sitting against you no longer have the power to do so. One Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government will continue to do its work with humility in the three years ahead of us, with an appropriate, stable majority, for the benefit of Hungarian voters and the entire national community. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dóra Dúró: We'll do it in Tapolca!]]
u2015-02-23-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I would also like to ask my fellow Members to try to be a little quieter, since we are in television broadcasting time. I think it is important for the country that the Parliament does its work with great seriousness. Please, let's suspend the dialogue. [[Noise. Zoltán Lukács: He still had a minute.]] Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-02-23-31	Mr. President. Dear House, On behalf of Fidesz, I would like to congratulate Zoltán Késző, who has gained the confidence of the relative majority of voters in Veszprém and the surrounding settlements, and instead of Tibor Navracsics, he will sit here in Parliament. I congratulate him and wish him every success in his work. I would like to thank the voters who took part in the election, with relatively low participation, for taking the trouble and giving their views regardless of bad weather. I would particularly like to thank the voters and colleagues, our helpers, our activists for their support, who have fought this campaign with us. When we look at the results, it is clear that MSZP, DK, Together, Liberals and MoMa, the independent candidate supported by the Modern Hungary Movement received about as many votes as in the Spring elections on 6 April, while the LMP lost half of its voters, Jobbik 40 percent and Fidesz 50 percent. This shows what really decides the outcome of such an election, so that it can also give voters an acceptable definition of what the stakes of the election are, why they should vote. The candidate supported by MSZP, DK, Together, Liberals and MoMa, who is independent, made it clear that the stakes of the election are whether or not two thirds of the Fidesz and KDNP remain in Parliament. This mobilized left-wing voters and Protestant voters, while the other parliamentary parties were unable to place a bet that would have mobilised their voters in general. Critically speaking, neither do we. Fidesz stated that the stakes of the election are who represents Veszprém and the surrounding area, who is the one who can be intelligent, active, effective, for the Veszprém and for the surrounding villages, who understands their problems, who wants to go to Parliament for this reason. Of course, time will decide whether Zoltán Készt will be successful in this work or not. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Whether you keep your promises!]] One thing is certain: the election has shown that a two-thirds government party has difficulty turning the stakes of interim elections into a matter of life and death. Zoltán Készt has done this relatively effectively. Of course, only limited conclusions can be drawn from interim elections. This week, there have been mayor elections in several settlements. For the first time in Abaújvántó, there is a mayor supported by Fidesz - never before so - who won by 69 percent. [[Let's hear it for the MSZP, LMP and the pro-government benches.]] Congratulations to Adam Shaphian; and Satymazon, the mayor of Fidesz, won by more than 50 percent. [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] All this suggests that if the speaker of the MSZP were really right and it was some kind of trend turn, then it should be interpreted in a deeper way: what does the trend turn mean? From now on, will the MSZP only support candidates who openly say that they do not believe in universal suffrage? Those who openly say that they do not support and reject aid; or those who want to privatize health care, or say that they do not believe in any form of equal opportunities and any policy referring to it? By the way, our future fellow Member has repeatedly said this; in this sense he is perhaps even more liberal of the liberals, but he is certainly not close to the MSZP. What is not a problem, after all, who is close to the MSZP is an old mystery of Hungarian internal politics [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] And it's hard to decide. In any case, how wrong the speaker of the MSZP is about any kind of Jobbik-Fidesz cooperation: For example, I am sure that my fellow Member Tobias knows that the entire MSZP voting base has passed on to the mayor of Jobbik. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] Despite the fact that the MSZP specifically asked its voters not to do so. Otherwise, it doesn't mean that Jobbik and Fidesz would cooperate. It's a local phenomenon. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In any case, I think that we can continue our work with dignity and, of course, wish Zoltán Késztár a great deal of success in cooperation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking on behalf of the government, but I've received a signal that the government doesn't want to respond to what's been said. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Let's hear it! Let's hear it. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Today we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. After today's agenda, seven fellow Members wish to speak. Dear Parliament, For Thursday, 26 February, the deadline for non-scheduled speeches expired today at 10 a.m. On Thursday's meeting, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Bernadett Szél, LMP; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz. Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Dear Parliament, At today's meeting of the House Committee on Thursday's meeting, T/2258 T/2258 - The Dangers and Effects of the Transatlantic Investment and Trade Partnership on Sustainability and Sovereignty It has made political debate the agenda of the European Union. The decision shall be notified to Members of the European Parliament. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:08 p.m., we're gonna start questioning. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the National Development Minister:. What about the workers of Pannon Volán? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2015-02-23-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Last September, I submitted an interpellation: What about you, Pannon Volán? It was already seen as a kind of victim of the merger of the Volan companies on Pannon Vola. At the time, I asked specifically whether Pannon Volán would retain its employees and those collective rights, whether they could retain the common benefits of the employees, because we were skeptical that by merging the three Volán companies in the county, savings of about HUF 5 billion could be obtained by simply combining administrative management activities, but only by carrying out joint, so-called procurements. Even then, we claimed that the workers would most likely be injured by this. [[12.10]] At the time, we were just asking if there were going to be layoffs. Then I was told that there would only be redundancies in management, and I specifically asked if the employees of Pannon Volán could count on their previously recognised collective rights to be violated. Then the answer was no. I asked him if the reason for this was that they had been so wasteful in the past, and they told me that they did. That's what Secretary Major said. Compared to this, in the current wage negotiations, we see that instead of the 6.5 percent wage increase demanded by the trade unions, the owner representing the government's position supports a zero percent wage increase in 2015, which simply threatens the population of Pécs and Baranya to strike Pannon Volán. I'm asking you if you'd like to change your position, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2015-02-23-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that you asked the question, because it is possible to answer and confirm that the rumors that we have heard earlier, and what aroused the mood among the workers of the Volán, are clearly unfounded, because according to the government's intention, the two-year work programme was completed on 1 January of this year, and Pannon Volán Zrt. also merged into South Transdanubian Transport Center Zrt. So here I must declare and confirm that the workers have been transferred to the transport centre with full succession. In his question, he mentioned savings of HUF 5 billion. Let me tell you that this is a national total of savings, and believe me, what you're saying is that the only way to catch it is by raising wages, and there's only one way to save money, and that's where it's settled. The point is that from the point of view of economies of scale, he needed the merger of the Volán company and, as you know, from 1 January 2017 we will enter the open market, and in this respect it is absolutely important that the departments are optimal in terms of size and that they start in a good competitive position for the opportunity that will be opened on 1 January 17. By the way, with Pannon Volán we were able to make a 2.8 percent wage increase in 2014, agreed with them, and the rate of the wage increase occurred in each wage element, and also by 31 March the employees received a gross one-off allowance of HUF 30,000 per person. This is obviously not an excessive amount, because we would like to give you much more, but in this connection we would also report to you that I reject your claim that workers' wages can only be saved. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What is very important is that we still have until the 28th opportunity to reach an agreement. The minister is negotiating with the union, and I think we'll have a deal. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-23-36	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. How long can the Hungarian scissors open? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2015-02-23-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Many experts have shown and can also see that the middle layer of society in Hungary is in decline in economic terms. As a result - or we could say at the same time - the number of people living in poverty is increasing greatly; the Hungarian scissors continue to open. The capital is distributed among the oligarchs in political leadership, and thousands of honest people are at a disadvantage. According to KSH data in November last year, 31.1 percent of the total population, i.e. 3 million 44 thousand people, is affected by at least one dimension of the risk of relative income poverty or social exclusion in Hungary. In the case of poverty statistics, it is particularly sad that children under the age of 18 belong to the most vulnerable group for all poverty dimensions. In 2013 the proportion of those at risk of poverty or exclusion was 10 percentage points higher than the national average. The current social system supports freeloaders, parasites, destroyers, and even criminal individuals. According to the custom of Hungary's Government's response to the unsustainable situation, responsibility is passed on. Jobbik continues to support an appreciative social system, helping the community to build the community itself. In exchange for social assistance, we expect the aided to keep his porter in order, to conclude public service contracts, and to raise his children to become useful members of society. In closing, I'm going to share one more shocking piece of data with you, Mr. Secretary of State. The KSH statistics show that more than 36 percent of Hungarians cannot afford to see a guest in their own apartment, and this affects social relations. I ask the Secretary of State why he was allowed to allow such a deterioration in social conditions. Can settlements expect to spread taxes [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that the local authorities are able to bear the burden, so in addition to social contributions, the worker can provide parasites on another channel? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-02-23-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear country opening... [[The Foreman of Novak: What opening?]] Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, We certainly agree with the half sentence in the first part of your question, and we can agree, namely that we really need to experience in Hungary today that the ratio of the middle layer in society is small. We work for it, and I think it's our joint task to make this middle layer as big and as strong as possible. [[What about the windows? Forbidden word?]] At the same time, I have to argue with you on the issue of poverty in several places. On the one hand, in 2010, when we started governance, we projected a transformation of our policy on poverty and aid, and we started to do so in 2010. We have begun this work by transforming the large supply systems and reforming them. Basically, to appreciate work, we place the emphasis on getting everyone who wants to work to work, and if they can work, they can get out of poverty. The data that supports this is as follows. In 2006 there were 516 thousand children living in Hungary in income poverty, and today we can say that about 400 thousand children. Of course, as long as children live in poverty, we have work to do. We see a fundamental outbreak of poverty for these children by creating a schooling system, a kindergarten system that helps them to integrate into society from the very beginning, by providing basic skills and competences that can be used as adults. Congressman, you've been trying to match the aides with those you don't deserve. I believe that in Hungary, a part of the aided people cannot get a job except for their own failure, some because of the social environment. Our goal, our task, is to create the right place for everyone. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] job opportunities, and local authorities can decide for themselves how to help people living in settlements. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-23-40	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: the government is waiting for hundreds of families to be evicted from March. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-02-23-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The winter eviction moratorium expires on March 1. Few people know, but in the case of eviction due to execution, the vast majority of cases are small claims, which are less than 100 thousand forints. This typically comes from utility backlogs, water, electricity, gas. The outstanding rent and utility fees are also the reason why municipalities cancel the lease and whole families are evicted. There is a growing number of cases where municipalities evict their tenants without accommodation. Today, there is no obligation on municipalities to provide alternative housing. In addition to being inhuman, this is much more costly for the state. When a family gets on the street, parents go to a homeless shelter, and children go to state care. So far, housing and debt management subsidies have been a great help to families, but from March, the government has also withdrawn these vital subsidies and passed them on to municipalities to deal with the problem, even though the municipalities cannot solve this, since there is no one to collect local tax. The minimum wage and public wages are not enough to make a living. In order to solve this problem, we need state involvement, strong housing subsidies, debt management, the introduction of family bankruptcy protection, coordinated work of the various institutions of the municipalities and a real social housing sector. [[12.20]] My question, Mr. Secretary, is what the government is doing to prevent the eviction of hundreds of people. When will there be a social housing policy? When does the government start to deal with this problem? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-23-42	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-23-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, from 1 March, the system of social assistance will be transformed, but there is no threat to the danger raised here by the Member. On the one hand, the municipalities are exempt from the pre-existing part of the aid, since income compensatory subsidies will automatically be paid to everyone by the district government office. This means that the part that has always been added to the municipality, the State takes over from the municipalities, does not have to be paid to the municipality, will be financed from the central budget. This is, therefore, an additional portion of the aid register that remains with the municipalities. On the other hand, the possibility of charging free tax to municipalities is possible from business tax or by other means from an additional source of income. Thirdly, we can see that there are local authorities - most of the municipalities - whose tax power is not so high as to involve such resources in the local public transport system. Therefore, for them, we have set up a special fund for municipalities that are clearly unable to manage this. This is not a small sum, Congresswoman: 30 billion HUF 124 million is available to municipalities, that those who have lower tax revenues are able to obtain one-twelfth of the total annual amount on a pro rata basis from this fund, each month, and that is how they can pay the municipal subsidies that they can use for housing purposes. In the previous block, before the agenda, I have already said that there are hundreds of thousands of people who are no longer in a month's trouble with their rent, or who are better able to heat their apartments; 130 thousand and 250 thousand people who are now in a more favourable position. And those who wouldn't even know about it are the third level, the third aid is the so-called self-hit system, where they can apply for an additional HUF 5 billion grant. NGM and BM will decide on this together so that they can have them. Thus, own tax revenue, ejection of parts in this area, the 30 billion plus HUF 5 billion is available to municipalities to provide municipal support to everyone who really needs it on the ground. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: the Albert Schweitzer Hospital of 60 will be renewed. What steps are the government planning to take to further develop domestic hospitals? It's an address. Congresswoman Bene Ildikó has the floor.
u2015-02-23-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the fundamental elements of the development of Hungarian health care is the gradual modernisation of healthcare institutions and hospitals. In recent years, the government has launched a number of projects that have allowed the institution that plays an important role in the health care of a given city or county to be renewed. Last autumn, for example, a HUF 3.5 billion hospital development started in Kisvárdán, a new technology center was established, which includes artificial capital, sterilizers and diagnostic departments in the Hospital of Felső-szabolcs. In addition, the hospital's IT units will be developed and a new rehabilitation department will be established. But Kisvárda is not the only good example, as significant developments, renovations and constructions take place in many parts of the country. In the latest news, we read that the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in sixty is renewed. Albert Schweitzer Hospital is one of the most advanced health institutions in the Northern Hungary region, and since 2012, it has been able to heal and care for all segments of patients in a complex way. Because of its important role, it is a great pleasure for the people living in the region that the institution has received more than HUF 4.1 billion in support over the last three years and will ensure the future of the hospital in the longer term. We read in the announcements that the rehabilitation centre will be built, the newborn class, the pulmonary care provider will be renewed, and many modern central operating blocks will be completed during the development stages, as well as works such as window replacement, thermal insulation upgrades. Therefore, in connection with the 60th hospital, state-of-the-art engineering solutions are already being used, and it is very important that the electricity supply of the institution will, for example, be partly from renewable energy sources, as can be seen in many hospitals. Developments in recent years have led to the creation of modern hospitals that enable patients to be properly and comfortably cared for and provide adequate working conditions for healthcare workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: what further steps is the government planning to take to further develop domestic hospitals? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-46	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó.
u2015-02-23-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, In fact, as you say, the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in sixty has received over HUF 4 billion in development money in the last three years to build a rehabilitation wing, partly to repair a lung-care, newborn class, and now there is a huge investment in the central operating block. The 60th hospital development is a good example of the government's commitment to modernising healthcare institutions. This year, with a budget of HUF 6 billion from the KEOP programme, the further energy development of health institutions in the Ministry of Human Resources will take place, and in the multi-annual development period until 2020, we intend to provide some HUF 16 billion for this area. Within the framework of the program entitled Church Hospitals and the Honvéd Hospital, there are about 2 billion sources available for the renovation of the Buda Irgalisrendi Hospital, HUF 152 million, HUF 343 million for the renovation of the Hungarian Reformed Church Bethesda Children's Hospital, HUF 279 million for the renovation of the Hungarian Jewish Communitys' Love Hospital, HUF 228 million for the renovation of the St. Francis Hospital in Budapest, and HUF 887 million for the energy renovation of the Hungarian Defence Health Center. The investments will reduce the costs of the institutions, the amount saved will be used to perform the basic tasks and to improve the quality of the medicine. We are convinced that today's developments will determine the functioning of hospitals and the future of Hungarian society in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-48	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question:, Polish-Hungarian two good friends? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent under the subject, will answer the question. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2015-02-23-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Viktor Orbán's visit to Poland has been a spectacular failure. There has been a significant disturbance in the refusal of Jarosław Kaczyński to meet the Prime Minister. In order to save the awkward situation, the communication issued by the Prime Minister's Office denied that anyone would have initiated such a meeting with the President of the Polish Party for Justice and Justice, but the Polish Party's statement contradicts that the meeting was initiated and came from the environment of the Hungarian Prime Minister. The communication also states that this meeting did not take place because it did not make any sense, because Viktor Orbán, I quote, is destroying European solidarity. The meeting with the Polish Prime Minister, who, according to the Polish press, was critical of the Hungarian Prime Minister's policy, was also a failure. The deterioration of Polish relations is clearly due to the unilateral Russian friendship of Hungarian foreign policy. By the way, this was revealed by the discussion between the Polish Minister of Finance and the President of the Polish oil company in August 2014, when it was almost at the heights of Lajos Simicska that Viktor Orbán and Putin had an act with each other in their negotiations. Dear Minister, Why are the statements of the Prime Minister's Office and the Polish Party for Law and Justice lying to each other? Who's not telling the truth? Did you and Mr. Kaczyński set up a meeting or not? What is the government planning to do to restore the Hungarian-Polish relationship that has been angered by the Russian-Hungarian relationship? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-02-23-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, answers the question. I give you the floor, Minister. [[12.30]]
u2015-02-23-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Central European and Visegrád cooperation is undoubtedly an important priority in Hungary's foreign policy. Central Europe is a driving force for European growth and, following cooperation in Visegrád, it is clear that Central European countries have been able to increase both their political and economic weight within Europe. However, it is also true that four sovereign, independent, separate countries are involved in the Visegrad Four, so I think it is legal to take a different approach to addressing certain issues. However, this cannot in any way put into question that the relationship between Hungary and Poland is an allied relationship, an allied cooperation. The Prime Minister took over the award of the Polish National Chamber of Economics in Warsaw last week, the highest medal this organisation can give. Previously, Lech Wałęsa, Jerzy Buzek, Bronisław Komorowski and Pope Benedict himself received this medal. The Prime Minister had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Poland in his Warsaw programme, but there was no meeting initiative on any opposition politician. Honourable Congressman, In addition, I would like to tell you that the closeness of relations between Hungary and Poland is demonstrated by the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland visited Budapest two weeks before his visit to Warsaw, while in January Minister Zoltán Balog and Deputy Minister László Szabó also discussed in Warsaw. So what I would like to ask, honourable Member, is that when we are talking about foreign affairs, and fortunately - thanks to the MSZP too - we can often talk about such issues, it might be worthwhile to start talking on the ground of facts, and then we might be able to get further in understanding each other. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2015-02-23-52	Thank you very much, Minister. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and we will continue with the questions. Member István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: * Why are they destroying the rail transport between Csenger-Mátészalka? It's an address. Then Secretary of State László Tasó will answer you. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In September 2010, János Fónagy made the firm promise in Csenger that the passenger and freight traffic on the Csenger-Szatmárnémet railway would soon be reopened. Now we know that this is one of your lies, it increases the line of your lies, because it has not become anything; but not only this reopening has become nothing, but now we see that the Csenger-Mátészalka is being completely dismantled as well. They did this in the first round around 2012-13, and now, according to the timetable in force from 14 December 2014, we see that you are able to create a new form of lie: you are now able to lie and deceive the travelling public and voters in a timetable. There appear to be at least three train pairs on paper, although this is very little. But in fact, only two travels, because every day at 12:10 p.m., the second and last train from Csenger to Mátészalka leaves at 1:00 p.m. and 15:00 p.m. At the same time, the third train does not run, it is valid only on Fridays, is valid at 7:05 p.m., and then no train leaves at 12:10 p.m. What is the lesson? The lesson from this is that you are practically on the road, you are on the road that you are not allowing the 45-50 thousand inhabitants of the area to use rail transport, and then you will completely eliminate this railway line by citing that there is no need for it. In addition, workers will be dismissed and travel by people and voters will be impossible instead of creating at least three more for the existing, actually two pairs of trains. It would be necessary to take a train at 4:00 a.m., at 6:00 a.m. and at 3:45 p.m. in the evening, whether in the case of Csenger-Mátészalka or in the case of my last comment, also in the case of Mátészalka-Csenger. I ask Mr Secretary of State how long they will continue to destroy the countryside, how long they will continue to destroy the railway, how long they will continue to destroy the countryside, how long they will walk the liberal path that the countryside and the village are an outdated settlement, and how long they will try to see the people of Satmar as second class citizens in their own country. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer on behalf of the government will be given by Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I understand that it's good to say pointy things, and it's nice to use such strong words on occasion, but let's see what's real. So let's put it in its place: the Mátészalka-Kocsord No. 114 lower-Chewer line was terminated in 2009 by the MSZP government, and if you recall it, in 2010 it was one of the first steps of the established new government to restore passenger transport. But what is very important is that from 2012 two daytime trains are actually on the line, but the bus is used by the people who live there, and so it is very important to know what the demand is, what they ask for and what they are used to. On working days, there are 21 flights between Csenger and Mátészalka, so I don't think you can say that's not enough. I am sure that, by the way, when there is a discussion on the timetable, then all mayors, all the Members who live there can express their views, and the truth is that there was no indication of this on either occasion in 13-14. What is important is that the seven-mile fast train connected to the bellery line is also an opportunity that already runs on a track between Budapest and Debrecen, at least the line has become so functional that it does not stop in the settlements between it, so it accelerates and makes transport easier. The Hungarian state is also trying to meet the needs of travelers from the Csenger area to the county seat and Mátészalka by bus. The truth is, every time we have discussions, we specifically ask the mayors to give their opinion. [[István Apáti: They dare not!]] We're adapted to the needs, by the way. You may not know that, or you won't talk to them, but we'll keep in touch with them, by the way. What is important is that, for the sake of development, we introduced the quarter cheaper regional base tariffs from Mátészalka to Nyíregyháza, Zajta and Zahony. The question I understand is clear; believe me, the answer is clear and clear. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Vas Imre, from the Fidesz Group, would you like to ask the Minister of Defence:.Magyar Gripenek is protecting Slovenia's airspace from spring? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Protection cooperation between Slovenia and Hungary is extremely close and diverse. According to one agreement, Gripen is also protecting Slovenia's airspace, because the neighbouring country does not have combat aircraft, and one of the most important threats of our time is international terrorism, which can be one of the means of diversion and use of civil aircraft as a weapon. NATO therefore considers it an important task to maintain a single air defence system in the Member States and to ensure a satisfactory settlement of airspace security tasks. Since 2004, Italy has provided the protection of the Slovenian airspace as an allied contribution. It is also planned that our country will be involved in the tasks of the neighbouring country in the field of air traffic control. I ask the honourable Secretary of State what kind of public information he can provide on cooperation and details thereof. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-58	State Secretary Tamás Vargha will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a reliable, committed ally that takes part in the joint tasks. With more than four years of serious work left behind, we have renewed the Gripen capacity of the Hungarian Defence Forces. As a result of this work, a 21st edition of the Official Journal of the European Union has been published in the Official Journal of the European Union and has been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. We have the world's leading fourth generation fighter-flying capabilities that meet the challenges of the century. Every day, our planes prove that they provide reliable protection of the Hungarian airspace. This is also confirmed by the fact that NATO is counting on them, not only here in neighbouring Slovenia, but also to protect the Baltic airspace, which is a much more complex task. Honourable Congressman, As for the details of the mission undertaken, our planes are taking off from home base. The missions will be carried out jointly with the Italian Air Force in accordance with the instructions of the NATO Headquarters established in Torrejón, Spain, who will also be alerted 24 hours a week to protect Slovenia's airspace. Honourable Congressman, We're ready for the task. This is demonstrated by the fact that our Gripens also carried out their first capture in the first days of January 2015; and more importantly, perhaps the most important thing is that Hungary's security will be further strengthened with this mission. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[12.40]]
u2015-02-23-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: after marriage, will there be a week of coexistence? It's an address. I give you the floor, Mrs. Bargón... - Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go. And I apologize for the slip-up.
u2015-02-23-61	Thank you, Mr. President. In the past period, the government held its propaganda events at the title of "Marriage Week." It is well known that more and more people are in extramarital relationships, and even more children are born outside of marriage. There are more and more people who imagine their future together without this act. Not to mention, for many people, joint credit is a strong enough relationship. The numbers are proof of change. Since the change of regime, the number of marriages has decreased by almost 45 percent. Today, 37,000 marriages get 20,000 divorces a year. Today, more than 42 percent of children are born out of wedlock. There are areas where two thirds of children are born out of wedlock. These processes are undeniable, yet you talk about marriage all the time, only people who are married are taken into consideration. Those who have children as partners, create homes, why doesn't it matter? But there's science behind it. There were performances during the week series. One of these was held by a specialist who said that a wife should not be married if she becomes pregnant before or during the first year of the marriage. He believes it is advisable to avoid marriage even if the couple had been together for less than six months or more than three years before the marriage. But he does not recommend this wonderful thing to those whose family background is very different from religion, upbringing, social class, ethnicity, age - of course, it is state money. So marriage is important, but it's not recommended to everyone. What about those who choose each other, living together, having a relationship, but not getting married? What about people who have children together, but not as husband-wives? Are married children worth more than children born out of wedlock? When are families, couples who don't get married, finally considered family? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2015-02-23-62	Thank you very much. We will hear the answer from State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2015-02-23-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Bangóné Congresswoman! He says this government was a propaganda event. I think it is good to start by clarifying the facts here; this is a church and civil initiative that the government has taken up eight years ago, because it is a good cause, because, by the way, we consider marriage to be a very supportive value, I do not know how you feel about it. Otherwise, we don't want to interfere in anyone's personal life. Of course, everyone chooses the form of cohabitation they desire, whether it be marriage or any other form of cohabitation. I don't know if Congresswoman has read our Fundamental Law yet. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Sure! Of course.]] which tells us what we consider family. In addition to marriage relations, the relationship between the child and the parent is always considered family, so it makes no distinction between marriage and child rearing in the form of cohabitation. The number of marriages was also presented by the congresswoman with various data. I don't know how well you read the statistics. You are aware that the number of marriages increased by 9 percent by 2015 compared to 2010 and the number of divorces decreased by 15 percent. Therefore, it would be good to extend the investigation period to one that is no longer only supporting your claims, but also reflects facts. The fact that at such an event, organised by the church and civilians together, what speakers there are, I would very much not like to live in a country where a member of the government could be asked about in such a case and could be called to account in Parliament. It's a church and civil organization, initiative, I'll say it again. And as for your specific question, as it was said, after marriage, there will be a week of living together, you have any opportunity to take the initiative. Of course, the week of living together can be held in Hungary just as much as the week of marriage can be held. If there are those who take this case, as the churches and civilians have done with the week of marriage, eight years ago, then, of course, this is a free country, it can be done. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-64	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr.Gergely Farkas Group Director, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What cases of outrage are you waiting for to take action to solve the problems surrounding traineeships? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that the question will be answered on behalf of Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, on behalf of the Prime Minister Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Mr. Group Director.
u2015-02-23-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has addressed a number of young people's issues in recent years, including the problems surrounding student work or community-filled traineeships. In the case of the former, we also launched a campaign, which I am a student, not a slave, and with which we wanted to draw the government's attention to the problems surrounding student work. In this context, we have created the opportunity to report various abuses by means of a complaint form. In many of these cases, we then turned to the authorities, and then they investigated the matter and took the necessary steps. In addition to the problems surrounding student work, there is a great deal of abuse around traineeships. In this case, I have already addressed an interpellation to the competent minister myself, but instead of detailing in his reply what the government was about to do to resolve the reverse situations, it was only so full that he presented the current legislation, the legislation on which the practice demonstrated that they were inadequate, was not sufficient. At the same time, not only was the answer outrageous, but also that no action has been taken in this matter since then, even though there is plenty to be done. This was confirmed last week by a press report on outrageous practices against students. The National Association of Hungarian Parents drew attention to the exploitation of students and protested against the practices of employers. This is how they put it in their communication: - Businesses may have to be closed on Sunday, but underage children studying in vocational training also work on Sundays, holidays and holidays in practical training places for hunger. For hunger, because they have students doing the same work as adults, for a student allowance of HUF 16-18 thousand per month. So, like Jobbik, MSZOE demands that the problems around traineeships be addressed and this untenable situation resolved. Dear Secretary of State, Please do not go into the legislative background in your reply, and I know that. Answer how they allowed such cases to happen. What concrete steps are planned to eliminate these abuses? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He did mention an important subject. With regard to student work, let me say for a half sentence that in the last year alone more than 22,000 students participated in summer work. Last year, the day before last, we introduced this system, and I can tell you it's very successful. At the moment, there are 48,000 student contracts in force in Hungary. This is what we want to increase to 70,000 over the next 3-4 years. You may agree that students can learn the profession in the first place if they can learn the profession in sharp conditions, not in school classrooms, but in corporate conditions. I would like to bring in the VET Act - although he told me not to refer to it, but it is his bible, citing vocational training - which says that under certain conditions it is possible to train students in practice on weekends and holidays. I think it's absolutely lifelike, because if you're going to be a restaurantist, a waitress, a cook, you should know that when you're done, the hotel or the restaurant will be open on Sundays as well. At the same time, the VET Act states that, instead of the time taken, it is best to provide the same amount of free time on the next practical training day. I agree, Mr President, that if the problems you have indicated arise - so I do not dare to say that there are no cases you are talking about - I would like to ask you to do so, if you specifically tell me which institution has this problem and whether the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Agricultural Economy, or the Labour Inspectorate, has the right and the opportunity to take action. It has been and will continue to be subject to such checks. The fact that it cannot be filtered out to zero percent is likely to be so, but we will do everything we can to ensure that there is less or less abuse at zero levels. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Árpád Velez, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What is the amount of reward and premium received by state-owned companies' managers last year? It's an address. The answer will be given on behalf of Minister László Tasó, State Secretary. Congressman Árpád Velez has the floor. Here you go. [[12.50]]
u2015-02-23-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, during the ministry of Lászlóné Németh, there was a great scandal about the approval of tens of millions of bonuses and bonuses to the leaders of state-owned companies at the end of 2013. The issue of rewards and bonuses at that time also became the subject of the government meeting. In spite of the fact that the Prime Minister's statement that no one can earn more than HUF 2 million at institutions or public money-operated state companies was known, ten million bonuses and bonuses were approved to the heads of state companies. In 2013, he received more than HUF 2 million in prizes and bonuses, including the CEO of the Hungarian Development Bank, the CEO of MÁV, the CEO of the Hungarian National Asset Management and the Head of the National Asset Management. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary whether, last year, the state-owned companies were paid to their managers or not to receive bonuses and bonuses. If so, who are the leaders who received a reward or a premium and each received what amount of money? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-02-23-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At the beginning of 2014, the Minister for National Development asked the managers of the majority state-owned companies to repay the sum of HUF 2 million that they received in 2013 as a reward or premium. As a result, on the basis of the ownership decisions, no premium or reward could be granted and the 2014 bonuses were not issued either. This decision is set out in Law No 208 of 2012 on the Labour Code. § 1 and 2 applies to senior employees, in Hungarian, in addition to the number one leaders, even to middle managers. I repeat: In 2014, there was no premium record, and in addition to the number one leaders, the ban also applied to middle managers. In this regard, I can answer your question that no penny bonus or reward has been paid to the managers of the majority state-owned companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. How long can the dangerous waste storage facility in Hortobágy still poison people in Balmazújváros? It's an address. Mr Gergely Kulcsár has the floor, and Minister Zsolt V. Németh will answer.
u2015-02-23-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is known, it was discovered at the end of 2013 that 2 thousand tonnes of hazardous waste were stored in the vicinity of the Hortobágy National Park, under slightly inadequate conditions, thus endangering the health of residents beyond the life of Hortobágy. Then, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Elijah promised immediate action, with the prospect of separating HUF 350 million for the immediate liquidation of the colony. It didn't come to nothing. Therefore, last November, I asked Mr State Secretary again, and in his reply you passed the responsibility on to the operator of the plant, but he did not say a word about government promises. However, it seems that now the government's news portals are ringing the alarm bell, because the address of the news portal is that there is an environmental emergency, yet the solution is delayed. Everyone knows that the operator is not going to liquidate the plant because he doesn't have the money, but the poison can cause environmental disasters at any time. Not to mention that the rate of blood diseases in Balmazújváros is high above average, and this is probably due to this colony. Dear Secretary of State, With a 14-month delay, will the government finally keep their promise and transport hazardous waste from Hortobágy? Has the promised HUF 3-4 billion been isolated to eliminate such settlements? This question is also important because we know that the ruins of the cement factory in Silken are contaminated with asbestos and people are dying as a result. I would ask you to give me the answers to these two specific questions without misconception. And once again, the operator, the owners, spoke about their responsibility the other day, now speak about their own responsibility, that in December 2013 they promised to liquidate this establishment. It's been 14 months and nothing's happened. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The hazardous waste storage facility in Balmazújváros-Lazlózlóház was built in the 1980s to ensure the safe temporary storage of waste for recovery and disposal by industrial companies. Since it was originally built to store hazardous waste, it was equipped with appropriate technical protection such as sockets, damage control ditches and monitoring networks. However, the transition was interpreted differently by those who left hazardous waste. What they have done, we believe, is exhausting the concept of crime. That is why the competent inspectorate has filed a complaint against pollution. In order to avoid environmental damage and to deal with immediate danger, the government will take the action, but it will need to generate the necessary resources, with taxpayers' money instead of those responsible. Let's see what the inspectorate has done so far. The waste from the barrels was collected, the damaged barrels were repacked, the damaged fence of the container was repaired, the guarding of the plant was solved. They regularly conduct field visits, and due to their actions, pollution did not leave the site. This is also demonstrated by the results of the laboratory tests of 2 February 2015. In response to Mr President's specific question, the Ministry of Agriculture prepared and submitted to the Government a preparatory document to ensure the scheduled settlement of the waste disposal and the environmental damage left behind in Balmazújváros-Lazlóház. Thank you for agreeing to this reply, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Defence:. Is she really not taking any action to prevent her letters from being blown out by the wind? It's an address. The floor is for Congresswoman, and Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-77	Mr. Secretary. Is the Ministry of Defence not allowed to blow its public letters into press editorials? I asked the Ministry of Defence for information on how on 11 September 2014 the letter dated 2 April, which provided information to Máté Kocsis, the then president of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee on the purchase of the three used Mi-8 helicopters was published on the Vatsz.hu Internet News Portal. In my question, Minister, in his written reply, he informed me that he had ordered an internal investigation into his question. In my further question, I asked him if he had succeeded in completing the internal investigation, and if so, what was the result of that. According to the Minister's written reply, the internal investigation has been completed, but it has not resulted in a result, because the dissemination of the document has affected such a wide range that it cannot be clearly established from which person or persons sent it to the press. His reply was only surprising because, in recent years, the Minister has repeatedly expressed progress in reducing bureaucracy. In comparison, he replied that the letter sent to the Chairman of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee went through an uncontrollably wide range of hands in the Ministry of Defence. In view of this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how many people have contributed to the preparation and delivery of the information letter to the Chairman of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee. Although the internal investigation did not produce any results, the leak of ministerial correspondence cannot, obviously, be without consequences. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what measures are being taken to ensure that non-public letters are not blown out by the wind. Is it normal for you to have uncontrollably wide access to your non-public letters in their official capacity? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-02-23-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer to the question raised is from Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.00]]
u2015-02-23-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am truly surprised that after the Ministry replied in writing to its written question with a similar content, you feel the need to ask the same question orally again. In replying to your question, which is very similar to that of today, we wrote to you that the Ministry of Defence complies with the rules on file handling, and that is what you expect from all your colleagues. Thousands of letters are produced in the Ministry on a monthly basis, and are treated with the utmost care and commitment by the Ministry's staff and sent to the recipients. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Do you really want us to put a secret servant next to every unclassified, unclassified letter? We know that the predecessor of the party of which you are a member has tried to operate such a system once, it was customary, but I would ask you not to restore this system. I can give you the same answer to your question in writing, which is very similar to your last question. The Ministry of Defense is following the rules of file handling, and it is what you expect from all your colleagues, in your new form of speech, to do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: Why is the government not taking the problems of beekeeping seriously? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, who is responsible and competent on the subject, István Nagy, State Secretary will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Whether I'm talking to beekeepers with 10-50-200 hives, or whether they're from Tolna, Komárom-Esztergom, Pékés county, they're raising the same problems everywhere. The last six years have been particularly bad for them, and four of them can be described as catastrophic. Most of them live up to their last reserves, and they haven't dreamed of improvements in years. However, beekeeping is a special area whose products have always been uniquely exportworthy. Nevertheless, the sector feels that it is treated as a stepchild in agriculture. The key to the survival and development of the Hungarian apiary is in the hands of the government, and those concerned expect concrete steps instead of preconceived misconceptions. For lack of time, only as a list: the situation of the beekeepers. I would like to make sure that they have a full-time job, and, of course, they would also be given permissions, and of course, there would be accountability. Those responsible should be divided into districts, and should also have executive authority to exclude irresponsible beekeepers, if necessary, from the system, and to act immediately against the sick population. There is also the role of the notaries, who, we believe, should be able to assess the uterine density of their areas in the case of migratory bees, so that they can issue permits. Beekeepers find it regrettable that they are excluded from agricultural subsidies, and here they have also raised ideas for a new support system, which is on the Secretary of State's table. The untenableness of the education system has also been highlighted, and the lack of marketing is also attributed to the government. I ask Mr. Secretary of State, who is very experienced in this area, because I went to you at the university for the bee-keeping faculty, and you even gave me an "A." [[Defiance.]] To honor them with real answers for the sake of beekeepers. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-83	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, If you have come to see me, you can know the sector, I think about 20,000 beekeepers manage 1 million, 1 million 100,000 bee families in Hungary. You've also heard me say that many times, and please remember this, when I started the talk with the saying that you can't make a living from the apiary, you can only get rich. Because beekeepers do most of their work as a supplement to an action, because if you look at the 50-55 bee families that fall per person, you really cannot make a living, but you can earn reliable income as an income supplement. There are years when it is a bad world, and there are years when abundance is promising, and then there is money to be made. Indeed, these last few years have been difficult times for beekeeping. But that the Ministry wasn't there to help you, I'd like to deny that. After all, whether it is to help the damage caused by the Yvette cyclon, or to create it in the Hungarian national bee-keeping programme, to create the implementing regulation and to help it, all of which helps to make the Hungarian bee-keeping society easier. The EUR 4.7 million that we have provided 50-50 per cent of European Union and Hungarian funding to beekeepers is 15 per cent higher than last year, for example. What I can tell you about the beekeepers is that they must not confuse what is theirs, because then what is the task of the official veterinarian. The bee health officer and the official veterinarian shall cooperate closely and shall have joint responsibility for what is happening. Now they're transferred to the government offices, and the fact that they couldn't employ a pensioner is a real problem, so they're going through a rejuvenation. You have a lot of work to do, but you also have to see, my dear fellow Member, that from March to October, it is very difficult to do this in full-time. I think that everything I have told you, we can continue later, is enough to prove that the Hungarian government is very important to the beekeeper society. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: å Do you really think it is political impertinence to ask questions? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-23-85	Thank you very much. The December 2014 Government Decision of the Government of the Fidesz-KDNP on the definition of certain tasks related to the maintenance of the Paks nuclear power plant provides that:. In order to provide the necessary additional technical and scientific expertise for the implementation of the investment, a dedicated R &amp; D programme should be launched. Reaching immediately. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In my written question on 19 January, I tried to learn anything from you about this. You know, Minister, we have been telling you and you for five years that if you seriously acted responsibly in preparing for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and you did not want to fill the 40 percent domestic supplier ratio with law firms and language schools, you should have started training a long time ago. Pakson will need qualified professionals with years of professional experience. That's why I don't think it's politically impertinent to ask you that. 'Cause the answer I got from you is that it's political impertinence to ask you if you're gonna get the job ready or not. Fortunately, you can still ask questions because you can still ask questions, and you have an obligation to answer them. From all of this, I would like to ask you again orally, what kind of trainings are being started, in what course, in how many people and when? Are scholarship programmes planned and under what conditions? Are professional training planned, Pakson plans to re-start the college course, and are there plans to expand staff at the Energy Training Institute and what kind of courses? You don't have to lecture the opposition, you have to tell them why they haven't done anything in the last five years. It's not a lecture to cover up the lack of work. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: And the question. Applause in the same place.]]
u2015-02-23-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-02-23-87	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you would have felt, my fellow Member, that my reply in writing, probably with insufficient care, would have lectured or offended you, I would like to apologise. That wasn't my plan, and that wasn't my intention. As I indicated in my reply to your written question, you are banging on every question, I can answer all your questions, yes, we plan to. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-88	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the questioning period, since it's 1:10 p.m. and we started at 12:08 p.m. Now we move on to immediate questions. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Attila Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How did it feel? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister himself for the answer. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-89	Mr President, As it turned out from the title, I would like to ask you a question about Mr Prime Minister's personal feelings; I doubt that Mr Lazarus is capable of answering that. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-90	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. MEPs Zoltán Gőgös and Gábor István Harangozó, representatives of the MSZP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How long will you protect the oligarchs of Fidesz against the family farmers in Hortobágy? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I respectfully ask Members whether they will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person. Congressman Gábor István Bellozó will answer.
u2015-02-23-91	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister failed to clarify this last week, so I would like to know from Prime Minister whether his word is worth anything else, so I would like his answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-23-92	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Where is the money? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the congressman if he'll accept...
u2015-02-23-93	Thank you very much, yes.
u2015-02-23-94	... thepersonoftheresponder. Congressman indicates - not waiting for me to finish - that I thank you very much for accepting the person who responded. Mr László Teleki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the last week and today, we have heard about several people asking where the money is, what Flórian Farkas did with the hundreds of millions of forints he received in the National Roma Municipality. I would ask myself, because this has not only come up in the context of many writings and various entries, but also because I think it is important that public money be transparent in this case, so I think that this is not only a question for Florian Farkas, but also for the government. I heard Bence Rétvári's reply on several occasions, and I was not reassured by his reply, and I was not reassured because he did not answer the questions that were asked. I have always said that if, at the beginning of the elections, the cooperation that Lungo Drom and the government had done had to be priced, it would have been possible to see that they wanted to solve a monopoly on Roma, and they could have done so, because there was no government, there was no other partner of Fidesz, only the Lungo Drom. I believe that in Hungary there are a lot of Roma NGOs - legal protection organisations, advocacy organisations, associations - with whom they should have worked in addition to this, so that the government does not create a monopoly, but does not do so, so not only Flórian Farkas has a role and responsibility in how the money was spent, but also the government has a responsibility in not asking other people, why he does not address other civilians outside the Lungo Drom. This is what the civilians, the Roma civilians in Hungary, expect to address and involve them in the work they have not done so far. I think, among other things, that not only civilians, but others, too, have been injured in a lot of things, and therefore I think that the government should give adequate answers to these questions, so that it can reassure the Roma in Hungary, whether in source matters, finance or openness, because otherwise it is not able to reassure them. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári for the answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government is not selected from any organization. We have a public organization: there is a government, there is a National Roma Municipality. The partner of the government is obviously the National Roma Municipality, and how its internal relations develop, this is indifferent to the government in this respect, because they have their own decision-making mechanism, their own officials are elected, and the state has any relationship with this national minority government with a function of a public body. This project, which we discussed here today, was also discussed a week ago, and was also a project concluded in a consortium with the National Roma Municipality. From now on, the other questions may be a problem of some kind of power, obviously some of them may or may not be included in the management. Fortunately, the government was not in a position to bring justice between any civil society organisations, it was not in a position to select anyone and reject others in relation to cooperation, but it worked with the official national minority self-government, which is also enshrined in the Hungarian Fundamental Law, which works legally, because otherwise either the prosecution or the court would take appropriate measures if it were not legal, but a legitimate minority self-government has always been a partner of the government and will always be its partner. I believe that this is the purest, this is the clearest, this is the least questionable cooperation between the government and the Roma community, if the government cooperates with the National Roma Government, and the internal affairs of the local government are those which they themselves develop on the basis of internal relations. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. László Teleki, a one-minute rejoinder, please.
u2015-02-23-99	He couldn't tell me the answer again because he was avoiding questions, once and the other one, he wasn't telling the truth, Mr. Secretary of State. The reason you're not managing is because you created the law, in which the Lungo Drom received exclusive licenses, and therefore the National Roma Municipality, but I'd like to move on. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Yeah, that's right. I would like to go further, in the budget, to see that Lungo Drom itself has received hundreds of millions of forints for purchase, some kind of building purchase, various funds for the purchase of a seat, while the other organizations have not received it. Therefore, I think it is clear that the government is not doing the openness that we expect of it and that civilians expect of it. By the way, I would have expected that in 2009 the two persons, their son and their father were murdered in Tatárszentgyörgy on 23 February, and some thoughts about it, if they had said so, I think it would have reassured the population, because this event happened exactly six years ago. I think that this event, which took place at the time, should definitely be mentioned at government level in a year, because this is definitely part of the Roma issue, and it is part of what I wanted to say. Thank you very much. I wasn't reassured by your answer. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: No wonder! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-23-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, please.
u2015-02-23-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Congressman said things that weren't connected at a very fast pace. On the one hand, we obviously condemn the perpetrators of all crimes, and on the other hand, this government was more effective in detecting crimes, including in this case, than its predecessors. It would have been good if the investigative authorities had done more active work in previous years, and there was less left for the Hungarian police in this cycle, but fortunately we managed to move forward more effectively, although this obviously does not allow the victims to be resurrected, but at least we can do the satisfaction in this matter and protect others. As far as the project is concerned, honourable Member, here we are trying to give you the opportunity to train thousands of people in this national employment cooperative who can finally work as plumbers, woodworking, formwork carpenters, waterproofers, warm wrappers, vegetable and fruit processors, trained sewing workers or trained kitchen helpers, and who will not stand in line for municipal support, but can finally return to the labour market or get into the labour market with these professional qualifications. I ask that you and everyone else support this, because that is our main goal, so that as many as possible can finally get a job in the context of catching up programmes. Thank you very much. That's what's important.
u2015-02-23-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How will prosperity be here? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister to respond.
u2015-02-23-103	I must admit, the temptation is great, but I would wait for Viktor Orbán to do so. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-104	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. [[13.20]] Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet for national policy:. Yet does the government not support facilitating the participation of foreigners in elections? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr János Potápi Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding.
u2015-02-23-105	Mr President, since the Deputy Prime Minister has not answered a single question addressed to him in five years, I would now like to give him this opportunity and wait for him. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-106	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr. President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. Third, what do you think of the luxury pool tax, which you demanded in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa, as a member of the rich government? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, this is the third time I have to ask the same question, after the two answers I've heard so far have been the last of the bullshit. He did not even consider answering this question with a half sentence, to the point. I therefore ask you to limit yourself to answering the question that you have heard from the President. What do you think of the luxury pool tax you demanded in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa as an affected member of the rich government? May I remind you that in 2005, Ferenc Gyurcsány also protested in front of his villa in Szemlőhegy, and he said that Hungary today has a luxury left-wing prime minister who does not consider public burdens compulsory. As a billionaire, he refuses to pay a luxury tax after his luxury swimming pool. That is why he submitted the proposal to justify the existence of millions of people living in Hungary, while individuals have tens of millions of swimming pools in their own real estate. That is how you put it, and the social situation has not changed since then, at most your situation has changed, as the rich government has become a member of its own swimming pool. He was discreetly absent from the vote that Parliament held at its plenary session, when I tabled your proposal unchanged, because what you so desperately demanded in the opposition tends to forget in government. You have remained discreetly absent, but I am curious about your personal position: do you not consider it morally binding to propose this as a member of the government? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-02-23-108	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-02-23-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, twice this dialogue has already been held between us here in Parliament. I can't help it if someone can't take the same answer twice and put it on the third time. My position remains unchanged, and there is nothing new about it, and there is nothing new about it. There are too many dramatic changes going on in the world, Mr President, to stop dealing with my work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-23-110	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Mr. President Novak. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry you won't give me a round, honest answer again. Of course, actions speak and omissions speak in place of your words and your word, which calls into question your personal credibility. And, of course, Fidesz, because you spoke in opposition. For example, in 2009, when a number of legislative proposals were initiated to reduce VAT on basic foods to 5%, you said, for example, that the government's creaking came that it could not be resolved to be a separate basic food and non-essential food. Now, it is so in 12 countries of the European Union. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm That is how you argued, inter alia, with regard to the reduction of VAT on basic foods to 5%, and then you will sweep off the proposal that we are now making, your previous opposition proposal. Your governance is not credible if the proposal, which is literally the same as your previous proposal, is now being swept off the table or discreetly absent from either the vote or the honest response. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-02-23-112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary would like a minute. [[Peter Szijjártó spread his hands and says no.]] But he doesn't need this one minute right now. Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. [[He's taking a moment's break until several congressmen leave the room.]] I was just waiting for you to clear the picture for the TV broadcast. Thank you. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, I am now speaking for the people working in the administration, and for those civil servants who have been transferred from the municipalities to government offices, and because of a salad law now running, their salary would be brutally reduced from 1 April. I think, and perhaps more of us in this House agree, that Hungarian people in Hungary will not tolerate any more wage cuts. I think that in Hungary workers' poverty can only be reduced, not increased. Moreover, the government's justification for this is quite amazing. The term was used to reduce wage tension, because people who have been transferred to government offices have higher wages than those who work there, and therefore they are not raising the wages of the people who work there, what we say the LMP would do, but they are reducing those who are there. That's how you try to cut this Gordian knot. Dear Minister, You are deceiving the Hungarian people, because - once again - wage cuts should not be made in this country. In addition, there is one situation: it is a group that has worked for eight years on a frozen salary basis. The introduction of the public service career model is constantly delayed. I am talking about people whose salary could fall from one month to the next, although in our preliminary calculations there would be people with a higher education degree, especially those with a salary supplement of 40 per cent to 10 per cent, and others who fail the 20 per cent salary supplement. It is quite clear that another group of Hungarian people and workers would suffer a brutal wage reduction here. Dear Minister, I understand that you are rich in government. I also see that Fidesz basically wants to favour rich people. But have you really crossed this group? [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-02-23-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-02-23-115	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Unlike your style and tone, I wouldn't take the liberty of teaching you, despite the fact that I was the first public office in November 1994 to be 21 years old. I've been in municipal corridors and state institutions for 21 years. I may have some insight and an idea of the conditions under which the municipal authorities operate. If I may, I would first like to inform the Parliament that the government has decided to introduce a public service career model from June 2016, which will affect all Hungarian public servants. In the case of non-leading public servants, my proposal will be a wage increase of at least 30-40 percent in June 2016. The government will be able to create the financial conditions for this, just like those in the law enforcement sector. As far as the current transformation is concerned, on 1 March we will also take over tasks from local authorities and the Hungarian Treasury, and indeed colleagues will be transferred to government offices. However, you, my dear Congresswoman, did not speak of just over 38 thousand forints, which has indeed been this much for ten years, and this is very sad, although not everywhere and not in the same way, but you spoke of a salary supplement and a supplement. What are you talking about, Congresswoman? Are you telling me that there are municipalities in Hungary that have added to the wages of those working there despite the accumulated debt? Are you trying to tell me, dear Congresswoman, that there are people from the state tax forints, the taxpayers' money, in the municipalities that are consolidated, who supplement the wages of those who work there? Is that not what you mean, dear Congresswoman, that they are against sound farming, who make hundreds of thousands of forints more than government officials, than the municipalities whose state consolidation cost 1300 billion forints? Congresswoman, you're not talking about grade wages, you're talking about hijackings. How was these wages hijacked by hundreds of thousands of forints? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-23-116	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-02-23-117	Dear Minister, I'd rather not have your style right now, because then I'd have to pay tens of thousands of forints again, I think. But it's a fact. In this government, Minister, the number of the Deputy State Secretary has been doubled, this country has been overrun by ministers and government commissioners. [[13.30]] It is clear that they are working with political commissaries, trying to maintain their declining power. And after that, you have the courage to stand up here in Parliament and lecture a Member about the fact that some people who are not at the top of this hierarchy, but the silent majority - you know, Minister? - who go in and work from morning to night to support their families? ! When I stand up for these people, you stand up and tell me what I'm talking about? ! I'm talking about you building a country with your friends where practically the working man can't make a living. I demand these people's wages. And the only answer you have to answer to that question is that you're going to start it tomorrow, not summer 2016 and I don't know when. And then he'll say on January 1st next year, that he'll go from 2017 to the election. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Amazing, Your Excellency, your cynicism.
u2015-02-23-118	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to speak to you for a moment. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-119	If I were to lead the meeting, I would say to the Congresswoman that it is in our best interest to calm down. [[Defiance.]] That is the most important point, Congresswoman, to calm down. Just because 1821 people will get paid by 5 percent, because their salary will be higher at the government office than it was at the local government or other regional government administration. 215 people's salaries are falling, most of which we take over from the Treasury, where they had a 50 percent hijack; there were municipalities with a 35 percent hijacking. Their wages will be restored by June 2016. I would like to say that the most important part of this measure is that so far 27 thousand workers have had 4550 leaders in government offices. I'd be worried about taxpayers' money if there was an organisation with a manager of 45,000 employees. Of this, 2325 remain, which I think is very right; this country needs even less. As to your comment, Congresswoman, I would like to inform you that I was the first minister of supervision - for his personal edge - who, last December and this year, gave me a HUF 25,000 allowance for all 27 thousand employees, regardless of the reward. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-120	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Riz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Recordev in Hungarian tourism." What are the possible areas for the further development of Hungarian tourism? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah, he'll take it. Congressman Gábor Riz has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, Hungary's 2014 year is outstanding. It is outstanding for the development of the economy, as Hungary can account for one of the most impressive GDP growth in Europe. However, for such an increase, it is not enough to develop a sector, but it also needs outstanding sectors, which characterize the growth rate of the country's GDP as a driving sector. Tourism is one of the areas with such significant growth. Based on the 2014 data, it is safe to say that our country has performed outstandingly in this area in the last year. In support of some figures, it was already visible last year's third. from quarterly data, that according to the growth rate of about 4.5 percent, tourism in Hungary has evolved from one area to another and from one sector to another, but has clearly evolved from one internal sector to another. Last week, the data provided by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office exceeded all preliminary expectations. The most important numbers are as follows. In Hungary 9.5 million guests spent 24 million guest nights. This represents a 7.2 percent increase in the number of guests and a 5.4 percent increase in the number of nights they spend. It is also important that foreign guests represent a significant segment among the guests, who are now arriving not only from Europe but also from overseas and from the Middle East. But in the same way, the Far East will take their share of the 11 percent increase. It is even more joyful that the growth rate of domestic tourism is nearly the same as that of foreign tourism. The number of Hungarian guests increased by 10 percent in 2014, resulting in a 15 percent increase in the revenue of accommodation fees. It is also important to note that significant resources and significant results have come from this in Northern Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, After the results, I think the question is legitimate: what are the possible areas for further development of Hungarian tourism?
u2015-02-23-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go. [[Nándor Gúr: Go!]]
u2015-02-23-123	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, who is very interested, is also here in the benches of the MSZP! [[Nándor Gúr: We drink your word. Defiance.]] I don't want to repeat the statistical numbers because they're impressive. I would rather report on a different outcome and stress what I think is that we still have to say many more times to give more confidence in the performance of the economy. This is Hungary's performance in economic growth over the last year, as Hungary is also ranked first in the EU comparison with the 3.5 percent increase. We have every right to ask ourselves what brought this. An outlier performance, an outstanding performance of a sector or agriculture, weather brought performances? And the answer we have to give is no. It's a complex performance. It is complex because, if you look at the performance of industry, it is also outstanding if you look at our investment performance, our consumption has also increased significantly, and we feel very special and very good that the performance of tourism has also contributed to the high growth rate in Hungary in the last year. The conditions of tourism are given in Hungary. Our culture, our history, our talents, the excellent hotel services created by the Széchenyi Plan, I think they all form the basis for Hungary's ability to deliver this performance in tourism. Indeed, it is very important that Hungary is able to deliver a very significant result both in domestic and in foreign tourism over the past year. And of course, the question that I will answer in a minute is how we would like to continue to do so in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gábor Riz has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I think that, since we are both from North Hungary, it is particularly important for us that our region, some of which has traditionally been an industrial zone, can overcome the depression that has been brought about by the collapse of large industrial sectors. One of these areas is tourism. I think that in addition to classical medicinal tourism, visual and experience tourism has now been able to catch up with results, indicators and guest nights. To just mention the investment in Tokaj or Tátaljaújhely or Ozd, the result of which, I think, will be one of the important indicators of the coming years, because if the investment in MaNDA is made, Ozd can enter into the great tourism cycle between Szilvásvásvárad, Aggtelek and Bükki, Aggtelek National Parks, because we are about halfway between the two major destinations. Thank you.
u2015-02-23-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State will take the floor for a minute. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-127	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that the development of infrastructure is very important in the field of tourism, but it is also true that we do not have to or create competing infrastructures in the near future, but that we are basically able to guarantee quality development. The 100 billion forints available in the EU budget period 2014-2020 will basically serve this, new attractions and new quality investments. Indeed, our growth reserves are primarily in medicinal tourism and business tourism. This is why we are thinking, for example, about creating a congress centre in Budapest for thousands of people in the coming years in Hungary and Budapest in order to be able to report similar results later on.
u2015-02-23-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:.. On what basis did the Commissioner of the City of Veszprém act to protect Gábor Kubatov's illegal activities? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Mr President, without waiting for the question, Mr President, you have already indicated your acceptance of the response. Congressman, with all due respect, you have the floor. [[13.40]]
u2015-02-23-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, said in Veszprém last week that it is very important to maintain two thirds of the Ministry of the Interior. At the time, this statement was not understood by anyone, because it is not really necessary for a two-thirds majority to operate a ministry in a civil democracy. But since then, events have been taking place that are beginning to shed light on the meaning of this. For the first time, in District V, the National Bureau of Investigation said without an investigation that there was no corruption story, even rejected the investigation in the case that Péter Juhász local representative had done. I think that only as much of the media as this case has come to light, couldn't have been done by the National Bureau of Investigation. Of course, we will continue to support the Member's efforts to reveal the truth. But it was a far more serious matter when, yesterday, in Veszprém, one of the members of the Fidesz electoral district was sent home because he registered the people and then the journalists operating in the vicinity of the Fidesz headquarters - five minutes after Gábor Kubatov appeared, who, of course, did not want to be at their disposal in the form of any statement - the police officers arriving at the scene, including the city's police captain, confirmed that the video footage clearly showed that they knew that they were journalists. Secretary of State, this can't be allowed. The lady who had been certified, among other things, has been in the business for 17 years, told me that she had never met one of these. Fidesz event planners or on-site security people and Gábor Kubatov himself knew exactly that they were journalists. On what basis does a city police commissioner intervene in politics at this level? Is that what you expect for two-thirds support? I want you to end this kind of politicisation of the police immediately, and I don't want it to happen again. I'd rather see how those free teams were operating in Veszprém yesterday and how they've been collecting classified information about the most trusted personal data in recent years, including electoral intent! That's what you need to do, Mr. Secretary. That's what you're supposed to do. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-23-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Under current legislation, the police have a role to play in the smooth conduct of parliamentary elections. That is the case in the general elections, and so in the interim elections. During yesterday, an interim parliamentary election was held in the Veszprém County Constituencies No.1, the centre of which was the City of Veszprém County. In view of this, the designated head of the police task related to the election was the captain of the city of Veszprém County. So the presence and activity of the police captain of the county-righted city during yesterday's election was completely legal and legal. As far as your complaint is concerned, I would like to say that the police will investigate all reports and, if there is an infringement, take the necessary measures. The question of what the police captain of the county-righted city was doing at the scene was answered: he was the designated police commander, legally and legally. As far as the legality of the measure is concerned, I would like to inform you and this House that neither on the spot nor since then has the certified person complained about the measure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-133	Secretary of State, did you see that video? If you had seen it, you would not have said what you said, because it was clear from that video that the reporters had been certified - to put it mildly - after consulting the local people of Fidesz, who knew exactly that journalists had taken the recordings and that they were not stalking photos. By the way, I would like to point out that I, too, and Gábor Kubatov, and you, all Members have an obligation to tolerate this type of question and this type of interest, so to speak, which the press is showing, because we are public figures. This also applies to Gábor Kubatov, even if he has not spoken in this House once in his life. - I'm sorry, once - but he keeps organizing this otherwise illegal operation of the Fidesz. That was clear last week. All I'm saying is that instead of investigating this illegal operation, the police are still protecting us from this otherwise apparently illegal act.
u2015-02-23-134	Thank you very much. For a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-135	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am sorry that your anger has taken you and made statements that are completely unfounded and untrue, and I would like to reject your comment on the unlawful operation of Fidesz [[Zoltán Grimlock: I didn't write it, but one of the...]] This lacks any basis, and I refuse to do so. And as for your comment on the police, allow me to say that on Friday, too, I drew the attention of one of your fellow factions to the fact that memory is an important virtue for politicians and other people. May I draw your attention to the fact that between 2002 and 2010, in particular in the autumn of 2006, and especially on 23 October 2006, you have used the police for their political purposes, and you have led the police against peaceful demonstrators, honourable Member. [[That's not an answer, you know that, right?]] Since then, we've been able to restore public confidence in the police, the police thank you, all right, they're asking you to leave him alone. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Will you allow me to speak to Mr. Z. Carpathian, Mr. Daniel? Thank you. I am especially honoured by the notary of the National Assembly. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. How can your private bankruptcy help? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask whether you accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says yes. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-137	Mr President, Dear House, The institution of private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy has been the subject of campaign disputes or better proposals since 2009. During the 2010 campaign, KDNP has already promised to introduce a similar design. Yet our main problem is that it has been four and a half years, and even though they have once come to the conclusion that a bill has been drawn up from all of this, they have abandoned this form of assistance along banking alliances, currency and other matters. At last, four and a half years later, at the level of promises and in the press, it has already appeared that the government wants something similar, but at the same time, the time lost is no better signal than that 400 thousand people in Europe use a similar form of assistance a year, so it would be in Hungary. The main question is how seriously you thought KDNP's somewhat unviable, seconded bankruptcy institution, a failing institution, who tells you whether the elderly family member is going to receive treatment or to study the child, whether the family can spend money or move its resources in this direction. Jobbik, on the other hand, has developed a more humane structure whereby a legally executed, free-of-charged family helper would help convey to the creditor financial institution a longer term, but a lower payout, and would also convey to the labour market. So you can see that we, the right-hand guys, wouldn't interfere with what the family could spend their last pennies on, whereas KDNP's idea on the other hand, according to press reports, seems a little harsher and a little tougher. The question is, then, when will this finally become a bill, and what will become of the more than 130,000 people who have over 90 days of debt, so long overdue, so-called fallen credit, because the government is already emphasising its restrictive measures, and there is a strong fear, strong suspicion that the most difficult ones in the ranks, the most fallen, once again, cannot expect any help. I look forward to your substantive reply on these matters. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I am very honored that you address this issue to the Minister of National Economy, but the private institution does not belong to the Ministry, but belongs to the Ministry of Justice and the EMMI, neither in terms of legislation nor in terms of the social situation. But, of course, I'll try to answer you. We can't ask an immediate question, we should learn this too, but we've been here in Parliament for almost five years. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-02-23-140	Dear Mr President, do not force me to act in accordance with the relevant regulations of the house, so please, when I give you the floor, speak. Thank you.
u2015-02-23-141	Since 2010, the government has been dealing with the fate and issue of people in difficulty, and the solution to the foreign exchange credit problem proves that it has also taken the right path, in a legal, financial and justice sense. [[13.50]] I do not think that we can better prove that you are finally not dealing with the issue of foreign exchange credentials, but that you have obviously changed to another issue, this private failure institution, that the government is on the right track and that it is complying with the legislative rules that will lead you to be able to deal with the private failing institution after solving the problem of foreign exchange credentialers. I would like to tell you that the regulatory concept of this was adopted by the Government on 15 February. And indeed, the government examined the KDNP faction's previous proposal, and the Ministry of Justice is expected to present the issue of the private bankrupt institution to Parliament in the form of a bill in the first half of this year. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-23-142	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2015-02-23-143	Mr President, Dear House, We would have preferred that Mr Secretary of State did not waste 47 seconds of the possibility of replying to other and formal reasons, and that he would make himself subject to meaningful answers. Even so, we managed to touch about a third of what we raised. The fact that this will become a bill at the end of the first six months, Mr. Secretary, is a joke. So after four and a half years, for the 130,000 people who, I say once again, are struggling with daily problems, this message is quite amazing, especially after you have made a pact with the Banking Alliance - and they are not even ashamed of it publicly - where they have also stipulated that the private institution of bankruptcy will be carried over in a way that pleases the banks; where they have also stipulated that the eviction quota will also be set up in a way that pleases the banks. You made a deal with the banking system to start the desired lending next year. It doesn't mean that it will, but the fact that they can't show anything concrete about the private institution in four and a half years is simply pathetic. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-145	Thank you very much. They say otherwise, Mr President, the people concerned, the banks concerned say otherwise, and people living in other countries who protest in Romania that the solution should also be in Romania, say something else about this in Croatia, where they examined the solution that was born in Hungary on the issue of foreign exchange lenders. There will certainly be time to debate this in Parliament, but I would really like to say four principles in my half minute what this will contain. So the first is a fair debt settlement by approximating the interests of the debtor and creditor, with home protection and family-friendly solutions. Secondly, the consensus between the debtor and the creditor should be promoted and encouraged. Third, taking into account the specific financial market aspects of mortgage lending, the debtor's payment discipline should be maintained in the settlement of debt. And the fourth principle is to ensure that there is no unlawful concealment of property during the introduction and settlement of the private institution of bankruptcy. These principles will be followed by regulation. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question:. What measures have been taken in recent years in the fight against inland water in the Great Plain? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-02-23-147	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-02-23-148	Thank you very much. Congressman accepts the identity of the responder. Accordingly, it is up to Mr László Földi. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The inland water in the Great Plain is again a problem, mostly the South Great Plain and the Tisza Mente are suffering from the current situation, but in my own constituency, in Cegléd, Abony, Nagykőrös, there is also a problem. In the area of Kötivizig, five settlements, including Cegléd and Újszilvás, maintain second-degree alert, and Jászkarajenő defends first degree. Although there has been a recent decline in inland water-covered areas, it is expected that in March there will be more than average precipitation, which will make the situation difficult again. Last year's end was relatively rainy, the soil was saturated in many places. Due to the low temperature, evaporation can't help the situation, and unnecessary water can only leave the land by means of drainage. This is when the country's sewer network, which is more than 100,000 kilometers, becomes operational. But if it were truly effective, it might not be that serious. It is a fact that the network is partly public, partly municipal, and in a third significant part private. In addition, ownership conditions are mixed, which makes it difficult to operate the network, but it is clear that cleaning and maintenance of the sewers should not be detrimental to the confusion of the ownership or maintenance environment. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the protection against inland water is carried out in the Great Plain. How many experts do you have in counterintelligence? Can the situation be controlled? Are there any estimates of the damage caused by the internal water? Can farmers expect compensation? I look forward to your reply.
u2015-02-23-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I mentioned at the outset, will be heard from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, the area threatened by inland water is about 44 thousand square kilometres, 47 percent of the country's territory, and most of it is located in the lowland agricultural areas. At the end of last year and in January this year, a great deal of rain fell. As a result, the largest flooded area measured in January was nearly 128 thousand hectares. The defense is currently under way for 83 500 hectares. Half of this is plowing. The number of pumps in operation is 115 and some 499 people are involved in the defence. The two-pillar risk management system introduced in 2012 provides for compensation for farmers, resulting in a loss of yield of more than 30% due to inland water, and 100 per cent of the lost autumn crop may be taken into account as a yield reduction. The claim may be reported within 15 days of the occurrence of the damage. This is a process at the moment, so today we cannot say exactly what the damage to agriculture is. In addition, the municipalities can, of course, claim compensation from the force majeure framework for damage caused by inland water. In the last four years, the Ministry of Interior has paid HUF 4.9 billion for such events, and the BM Self Force Fund has supported the construction of drainage systems by some 2.2 billion. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-23-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Földi. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-153	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answers to my questions. What is most comforting to me is that farmers will not be left without a farmer, so to speak, but the appropriate portfolio and the Ministry of Interior and FM will help farmers who have been seriously damaged by inland water. I consider it equally important that it is also possible for municipalities to obtain appropriate support from them if they apply for force majeure funds, thereby reducing the damage caused by inland water. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás is the Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-155	The Member pointed out in the first part of his question that the maintenance of the channels is a serious task, and it is indeed true that in 2015, we will be able to clean up and maintain public employment for 8 thousand kilometres. There is a HUF 7.8 billion budget available for this purpose. Moreover, in recent years, there has been a steady increase in the number of well-established drainage channels with the help of public workers, such as gravitational drainage and drainage with existing technical facilities at pump sites, allowing us to deal with the problems caused by internal water for the rest of the year if there is no catastrophic water supply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2015-02-23-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's immediate question: the government is building Simicska's successors? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, please.
u2015-02-23-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hope that we have been able to look into what the MET is growing on since Christmas, because not so long ago you, as the responsible minister of the region, acted as if you had never heard of MET in your life, which, for example, is the owner of Hungary's largest gas power plant. So beyond that, if that's the case, it's kind of embarrassing for the government. Unfortunately, to this day, the government does not speak directly about the things that HES is wearing, although it is clear that the rise of MET in this country is accompanied by the decline and deep flight of MVM. You know, MVM is a state company that's always been a state in the state, but governments have always paid attention to keeping it profitable. It's the first loss since the early 2000s. This year, they wanted to add 50 billion into the MVM, and now they're at 18 billion according to the budget. But that means, gentlemen and ladies, that this company has been deboned by Fidesz-KDNP. The question is why. Why is it necessary that two companies, which are competitors, and which are connected to each other on a thousand lines, need Fidesz-KDNP to de-bone the one that is the state and let the one that is profit-oriented simply exist, flourish, flourish? Isn't it, Minister, just by chance, that Lajos Simicska's departure requires new money bags for the Fidesz? Is that what the MET story is about? Is that why you and Viktor Orbán are going to Switzerland? In addition to the children's choir, did they do other things in Switzerland? Moreover, it is clear that the passage between the two branches is enormous. Technically, a series of managers travel easily between MVM and MET. Dear Minister, I tell you György Kóbor, Gábor Králik, Balázs Lehőcz. They start their careers in one place, they continue on the other, and that's how it goes. Dear Minister, Aren't you afraid that maybe these people from the taxpayer's MVM company managing taxpayers' money are going to carry secrets with them and help MET, the profit-oriented company? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How much damage do you do to the taxpayers?
u2015-02-23-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-02-23-159	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, The truth is that I am in trouble, because I really have a portfolio of powers, abilities and knowledge that the Prime Minister intended for me as Minister, but thanks to God, I have not yet had to deal with energy issues, and I hope that the congresswoman has predicted that I would be in charge of this area in the government, it is just a prophecy that will not be fulfilled. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP. Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó: Paks, is that a landscape protection issue or something?]] I'm really looking forward to dropping off my portfolio and not getting new ones. In any case, I can only approach your question in principle, given that, unlike you, I am not an energy expert, nor am I an expert in Hungarian Electricity. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: You can see that!]] And I'm not an expert on the MET group, I don't do business in trade. [[István Tukacs: Everything else.]] I am dealing with what my constituents have entrusted me with, and all of us who work in Fidesz - whether in the ranks of the government or in the parliamentary benches - have been given the mandate, the confidence that we will serve the good of the country, and we will do so in accordance with our oath in each case, Congresswoman. Therefore, in the case of a private company, you should not ask me any commercial, business-type questions, because I am not an expert in this market, and to my knowledge, if these businesses have a point of contact with the Hungarian State, it is public and accessible to everyone, since the scope of the activities of the Hungarian Electricity Works, I believe, if you presume, is probably known. Go to them, ask them. Obviously, there are experts there who have given you advice or information, since you have been able to list by name the people of whom I believe we know little in this room. So you're talking about a question I'd be happy to answer in writing. Right now, it's beyond my humble ability. But I can tell you one thing: neither in the past, nor in the future, nor in the interests of anyone, nor of Lajos Simicska, nor of Sándor Csányi, nor of anyone else. This government serves only one interest: it serves the interests of Hungarian voters with each decision, including the decision made at the Hungarian Electricity Works. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-160	A one-minute rejoinder is for Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-02-23-161	Dear Minister, He's playing a very strange game. I think that the Hungarian government should be able to account for what goes on in the MVM. You simply have to be able to account for why it is necessary to put 18 billion forints of taxpayers' money into the MVM now, and the year is not over. I would also like to remind you that MVM has responsibilities. For example, if the Paks expansion, which I know is your portfolio now, would have taken place, then the MVM would have had to provide its share. How will you ensure that this company is loss-making? Tell me, where are you going to dig up your share of the Paks expansion? 'Cause not from MVM, that's for sure. Can you answer that question for me, Minister, to this one question? And then we will overlook the fact that we continue to have no answer as to why the Hungarian government is damaging the Hungarian taxpayers by letting the golden-egged hen pass over to MET Holding, and from then on the minister of this government will come in and say that it is not his fault, he has no idea what is going on, not his territory. It's very irresponsible, Minister. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And there will be a sequel! About the entire opposition supported the committee of inquiry. I'm very confident that you'll support this, otherwise it'll be a self-recognition of what your Swiss tour is all about.
u2015-02-23-162	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-02-23-163	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Bring me into some form of MET, Switzerland and such cases, because I am truly uninformed. I would be very happy to promise you and to fulfil myself that on the basis of your written question, or on the basis of this statement, I will share all the information at my disposal with you or with any other fellow Member of Parliament. The Hungarian Government is planning strategic tasks and strategic goals for the Hungarian Electricity Works, as it has done over the last 20 years, given that the Hungarian Electricity Works will have a huge task not only in the care of the country but also in the production of energy in the future. We are planning investments, for which resources are available not only in Hungary but also in Central Europe. Listen to the board of directors of the MVM, the minister of supervision, they can report in detail. It is not that we want to destroy the economic activity of the Hungarian Electricity Works or to limit it to any other extent. On the contrary, it will be a key factor in the production of energy and in the energy supply of the country, and our hope is that it will play a decisive role not only in the energy supply of the country but also in the region. No illegal or abuse of the situation has occurred as far as your question is concerned. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-164	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Let's live well with football?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. [[István Tukacs nodds.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the response. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-165	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, There's a wonderful game called football. They love it all over the world. We like his past the most. His future, in which there are only promises, is loved by fewer people, they would try to love his present if it weren't for thousands and thousands of strange cases. The present is a strange Hungarian version, both in terms of the quality of the game and the circumstances. I would like to highlight this through an example, the key character of which is Miklós Seszták, Minister of the Government and one of the cities of my county: Kisvárda. The Minister and Kisvárda, that's the same thing, because we know from the tabloid press, not to mention the things that Mr. Sesztas has been wearing, that he has a thousand threads attached to Kisvárda. Well, this bond leads to strange things. All of a sudden, this club gets a lot of money, a lot of sponsors, 50 million to renovate its current stadium. And what God gives: He builds a new stadium out of 800 million state forints, third-class. Anyone who has seen a little Hungarian football in Hungary knows what this third-rate word means. Dear Minister, I ask you from a general government point of view: in the county where poverty, lack of health, unemployment, youth migration, the real problem is falling down, do we need to build a stadium with state money of HUF 800 million, or is there no place for this in another way, using it better? For example, where local governments are now poking around the register for money, because they have taken away the financial means of social assistance from them. Dear Minister, Do you feel responsible for people not being able to eat stadiums there? They'd eat something else, but they don't. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Although in this genre, you are obviously asking questions and we are answering them, who is the source of this sentence that I quote? In Hungary, there are two problems with sports facilities: one is that they are not, and the other is that they are in very poor condition where such facilities exist. [[14.10]] On the one hand, it is important to complete the stadium reconstruction programme and on the other hand to launch a new stadium modernisation programme. In our vision, it is important to build new stadiums. I'm not quoting you anymore. This comes from your party partner, Attila Mesterházy, once when he was a state secretary, he said what a large and comprehensive stadium construction and stadium reconstruction program should be launched. I don't know exactly what's hurting you, the construction of stadiums, or the fact that in your time, you've announced such a program, but you haven't made any progress. It's a little strange for you, who in 2002 or 2004 would have set up a special programme for small settlements of this kind, even under 2500 people, to develop similar sports venues, and you are now attacking if this government had done so. I think it's an important and good goal. Obviously, don't blame a small town councilman for trying to improve the lives of the people there for Kisvárda's sake. Your success may hurt you that you have failed to achieve anything similar in the county during eight years of socialist government, but there is a representative in Kisvárda who succeeds - you have admitted your own incompetence - as a regional representative. On the other hand, as far as grants are concerned, you know very well, but you're just not telling me that next year's The budget includes more than HUF 30 billion to cover municipal subsidies. Each month, one-twelfth of this amount will be awarded to low-tax authorities, and in addition, they can apply for HUF 5 billion of self-hit support. So both parts, sports development, are also ensured, because 15 percent of Hungarians now play sports instead of 5 percent, and they also provide funding for municipal subsidies. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-23-168	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Tukacs. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-169	Secretary of State, that was a lousy answer. Exemplary with Attila Mesterházy when he talks about sports facilities, and there were women's handball teams who couldn't play European cup finals in their sports hall, because it wasn't appropriate to talk about the construction of stadiums for extra third-class football clubs. What I'm asking is clear. A minister makes an inexplicably greasy investment for his own city in the form of a stadium. That's the question, and that's all it's about, Mr. Secretary. You don't have to talk about what happened eight years ago. Let's just talk about the Minister, since you didn't talk about what he's been up to. I don't know what his speech means from next year, because he was talking about the budget for next year; he probably meant this year for the municipalities. Tell me, Secretary of State, why do all the mayors complain that they can't pay social assistance? Is it because you're so generous? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-23-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-171	I could also quote Attila Mesterházy as to why it is important to develop football fields and associated dressing rooms and facilities in small settlements. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] This wallet will also be of particular support. You're in-house [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I want you to talk to him. Attila Mesterházy would build such sports facilities, not you. It's a matter within a faction. You solve it. I would like to ask you, Congressman, you have had eight years, for example, to raise the support for children's meals. Did they do it? [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] They didn't. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] From 29 billion, this government raised it to 58 billion, doubled it. It doubled what the municipalities, the social (Noise. - The president's ringing. ) can provide food for schoolchildren and others, precisely so that everyone can get the right food. Why didn't you double your child's food allowance? Why are you waiting for the Fidesz-KDNP government? This has been done, and the HUF 30 billion item for aid is also included in the budget. You did not support this, but Fidesz-KDNP voted in favour of this municipal aid cover. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-23-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 14:00 and we're done with Question Time. Dear Parliament, We have also reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Sándor Bodó of the Fidesz Group applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, A few days earlier, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély informed the public that the children of Sárrétudvar are worth more than the Kabai, namely, the new gym is built in Sárrétudvari alone in the region, and there is a lot of trouble with everyday physical education at school. Well, some specific things and facts are worth repeating, how and how this situation is in this constituency. Obviously, when it comes to the introduction of everyday physical education, everyone has their own opinion, their own idea. I think the government has chosen a good path when it has launched this programme, even knowing that not all locations have the right installation system. The sentence that children run in the hallway instead of sweaty mathematics, I think it's offensive, and it's obviously offensive to school leaders, teachers, who are trying to create conditions under these conditions. The real problem is perhaps there, as the congresswoman said, that the gym in the region is built only in one settlement, namely Sárrétudvari, in my residence. Well, dear Congresswoman, I suggest you pay attention to the government decree, be kind and study it, because that is not the case. Several settlements are built, namely Báránd, Role, where there has never been a school sports facility before, and in your settlement, where you live, Kaban's gym is also built. Naturally, the procedure is not too simple, because it is installations of different sizes, according to my information these export plans are now at the construction department, and hopefully this work will be completed as soon as possible and the actual construction can begin. So the congresswoman probably did not expect me to answer her question as to whether the children of Sárrétudvar or Kaba are worth more, but there is no need to answer such a question. The reality is that children from rural, small-town, metropolitan, are equally important and equally important to the government and want to provide everyone with the best possible conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-23-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The government does not wish to respond to what has been said. After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács of the Jobbik Group applied for a speech. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor after the agenda to talk about the health development offices, because they need to be explained and mentioned, and why and why, among other things, it is very important for Jobbik to have the public health approach represented by the health development offices, the disease prevention programmes that they implement, and the screenings that take place in these offices. This is important because, for Jobbik, health development is, by the way, a rarely employed area, especially important. In 2012, TÁMOP's application for health and awareness-raising lifestyle programs was launched in the small region, as well as for health and awareness-raising lifestyle programs in the most disadvantaged small regions, where health development offices started operating in 58 districts from the summer of 2013. The offices were established with a determined mission and a relatively wide range of activities. Their services supplement the basic care include cardiology, musculoskeletal, ophthalmological screenings, various health assessments, preventive, educational programmes, lifestyle advice and sports facilities. The implementation phase of the tender will be completed by the second half of 2015 and the three-year mandatory maintenance period will begin. What the government's intention with these offices is, even the profession doesn't know, but the government doesn't seem to know. Unfortunately, the coverage of the population with the EFI and the health development office was fairly unbalanced, 157 districts were eligible for tender at the time of issue, of which 115 districts submitted a total of 126 applications, 42 districts did not receive applications, and also from the districts with the worst indicators among the population. [[14.20]] So, as I mentioned, it is not possible to know what the government's plans are, it is not possible to know how to proceed, how much goes to the existing ones, and because the government plans to maintain them after 2015, perhaps in 2016. It is also not possible to know the government's position as to whether there will be any new powers, whether there will be another task at the health development offices. And another problem, as we can see, is that the coverage is not national, as in Szabolcs County, where the experts meet virtually the worst health indicators in the country, there is only one such office, but there is only one in Tolna and Vas County, while there is no such office in Komárom County. But I can also bring up regional anomalies in my own example, from Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, where there is a very parial project in a very small place on Tomajmonostora, which operates in Tiszafüred, and there is no such office activity in a wide area of 100,000 people. The project has a very nasty and very adverse relationship with areas with poor health area indicators. In order to clarify, I have contacted both the National Health Development Office and the competent ministry, from which I have received no concrete and forward-looking answers. The written question was good that we could see that the government still doesn't know what it wants to do with health development offices after 2015, how much it wants to spend on it, whether there will be any improvement at all, and even if there will be any place for health promotion offices in the transformation of the forthcoming, perhaps already accepted health institutions, and whether they will actually have an owner. However, there is a huge need for these offices, as this will improve the territorial health gap, which is in the country, can be improved by a rather lousy Hungarian health indicator at EU level, and even by doing so, districts, Hungarian regions, and Hungarian districts that are seriously lagging behind and face serious challenges in the area of health, and their activities could avoid rather poor mortality statistics. So after the assessment of the situation, the question to which the government should continue to answer remained: what about you, what about you, health development offices? 'Cause it looks like the government let go of their hands. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Kiss from the MSZP Group submitted a statement on the anti-poverty measures taken by the Government in accordance with Rule III. The title of the district effect. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's only good that we can talk about it here because at least we can see that III. In the example of the district, how not true today is the statement of the pro-government politicians and the members of the government itself that the government is not politicalising against the poor. In these days, in these weeks, local governments will adopt social regulations which, due to the amendment of last year's social law, result in coercion, coercion that eliminates a significant part of the social support system of local authorities so far. Regular social assistance, debt management aid, housing support, equity public health care, equity care and municipal aid will be abolished by the government. Instead, the concept of exceptional municipal aid and municipal aid will be introduced. According to the social law, the body of representatives is obliged to provide extraordinary municipal support to persons in an emergency situation which endangers subsistence, and to persons with periodic or permanent subsistence problems. It shall adopt a regulation on these systems by 28 February. The question is, however, how do municipalities do this when the government does not provide any additional resources for these tasks. There are basically two roads ahead of a municipality. One is to increase its own income, to levy local taxes, and the other is to reduce its social security system. We find this system to be incredibly cynical, because it forces local governments to choose either the wrong answer or buy their own local conflicts, or they cannot provide the local poor. This cynical behaviour is unacceptable for the MSZP, and it is unacceptable for the government to withdraw significant resources from the social institution system over and over again and year after year and to be passed on to the municipalities. What happens in Óbuda-Békásmegyer, what happens in my constituency? The municipality does not assist in the government policy of providing as little care as possible to as few poor as possible. The municipality therefore provides last year's benefits system through the involvement of significant resources - the resources that you have withdrawn from this system. This means that he spends 280 million forints more on III. district council for the poor, just like you did before. 280 million forints! This means that this is the money you took from III. I was taken from the district, from the inhabitants of Óbuda-Békásmegyer. I would like to note that the Municipality of Óbuda-Békásmegyeri cannot return all the aid, despite its greatest good intentions, because, for example, the municipality is not entitled to public health card expenditures, and therefore cannot, of course, grant such support, although it would be happy to do so, but the law does not allow it to do so. Of course, this also puts an extraordinary number of poor Obudas in amazing situations. This kind of cynical behaviour, this kind of cynical policy, which tries to manage the withdrawal by transferring the political burdens of this to the municipalities, will have an amazing effect in places far less favourable than us in the countryside. Where a municipality cannot pay its share, it cannot produce this HUF 280 million or up to HUF 28 million, where the poor people living here are virtually impossible. In this way, too, I call on the government to stop this anti-poor policy, to stop putting responsibility and political responsibility on the authorities, to look people in the eye and to return the money it took from the poor. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a post-meeting speech. Where did the first class go? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-23-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought that I would receive a first-rate reply from my fellow Member, Mr Bodó, but it seems that he did not, and I am very sorry that he did not stay in the Chamber, that he could have listened to what I am saying. Yes, the congressman is right, Sárrétudvari will build a gymnasium for HUF 200 million with 100% support. The municipality also won a tender in 2014 for gym building, only a miracle, there was a budget of 330 million forints, but there was no longer such lobbying power for the Fidesz representative, Sándor Bodó, and only 50 percent support for the municipality. I would like to read a resolution on the meeting of the local government - because I prepared it - that was made by the municipality of Kaba on 7 May 2014: the body of representatives of the municipality of Kaba supports Kaba 141/3. a gymnasium shall be built on municipal property under the local map number in the framework of the national public education infrastructure development programme. The 50 percent self-force requested by the intermediate body cannot be guaranteed. It empowers the mayor to negotiate the level of self-force with Government Commissioner László Vígh, and, in order to build the gym, it will provide up to 10 percent of the cost and, if possible, request the construction of the type C gym. Powers the mayor to take the necessary measures. Time limit: immediately. Mayor Anna Szegi. I think it is very false what the congressman has just said here that the children of Sárrétudvar are just as children as the children of Kaba. Again, I can say, as I have repeatedly said after the agenda, that children in Kaba are worth less to the government than children in Sárrétudvari and children in many other Fidesz-led settlements; here we could also add Kisvárda. I ask the question several times, and I am glad that at least one member of the county of Hajdú-Bihar, Mr. State Secretary, is here: why can one child fall into a different category than the other child? The problem of physical education and gymnasium problems of children in Kaba came to the fore when everyday physical education was introduced. [[14.30]] You can say that what I'm listing is false, that we're talking about sweaty kids and desperate teachers. Yes! There is theoretical physical education in Hungary today, because I would like to use everything to replace this so-called cursed daily physical education by teachers. Because everyday physical education was introduced without the infrastructure being built next to it. It was introduced violently. I've told you several times, we didn't speak against it, I didn't say it wasn't a good thing. It should only have been introduced in such a way that conditions were met, that every settlement would have a condition for everyday physical education. Dear gentlemen, ladies. Next year, every class will have to have regular physical education. You know what that's gonna mean? Well, the current chaos is nothing compared to what's going to happen in the schools from September next year! Think about it. When I listen to one of these, and Sándor Bodó was even a school principal, and mayor, Congressman, I would not dare stand up and declare, with such support, that one receives 50 percent support, and the other 100 percent, and that the mayor is Fidesz today, won in fidesz colors in the fall. And they don't make a difference, the Fidesz MP stands up and says that the Kaba children are the same as the kids in mud. They're not the same, because they didn't even get the same support. I hope I've spoken so much about this gym in Kaba, and think about it, it's a problem over 30 years old, this town's been struggling for over 30 years so that the gym can be built. I've been visiting classes, my kids have open weeks at school, and I always go to see the classes. You know what these teachers say? That Kaban will only be built if blood is spilled. There are several accidents in the gym every week because of the condition of the gym. And you don't realize that, and you're gonna get up and you're gonna lie! I beg you, is that what we're doing today? Instead of building a sports hall, it would be better to solve the problem of gymnasiums. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-23-180	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary László Tasó responds to the speech after the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House of Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, [[There's a lot of noise in the MSZP fraction. The president's ringing the bell.]] The thing is, your question was, "Where did Class I go? Compared to what you have just said in your speech after the agenda, I do not know how to match it. Because you responded to Congressman Bodo's speech. What happened to class I? At our place, it appeared where Class I rail transport had gone in the region. That's how it came to us as a question. But if you've asked me that question, I don't want to jump away from the opportunity to answer you. There is no congressman here, and I would be very happy to do so, if I were you, on the basis of the information I have at my disposal. One thing is certain, if I remember correctly, the high school curricula required a physical education course a week. MSZP-SZDSZ-government, together, a wonderful odd pair, was a mandatory one. I'll bet, by the way, that's what the mandatory was. But to continue: I think that any decision-maker can be proud of the fact that he not only created and created the possibility of daily physical education in Hungary, but also encourages students and teachers to do something more about physical education themselves. The fact that Kaban or Sárrétudvari or Kisvárdán a child who is going to what, and how he qualifies it, is only coming from your mouth. This has never been said by the Hungarian government in Hungary, and it has never happened before that someone has spoken about a child or anyone. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. István Apáti: Guard! The president's ringing the bell.]] I do not even remember that in recent years, but in no way since 2010, the subsidies that were claimed could not eventually be turned into investments without a little self-esteem. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] The last time I heard Kaba's request, I remember that when such an authority is given to a mayor, at the first moment, he does so by turning to the always open self-force fund for support. In English, if Kabán were to be built with only 50 percent support, then there would be a reason to say so. But that is not the case at the moment, dear Congresswoman. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So I'm very surprised that you're talking about this, and I've been trying to answer that question. I'm sorry, but the fact that you're making this comment when Mr Bodo isn't inside is not elegant. [[An uproar on the opposition side.]] Regardless, if he knew you were putting this on, he would have waited. So, my dear Congresswoman, believe me to believe that, apart from you, or now, I should say that no one here, apart from a dear Member, is thinking about making any kind of difference in Hungary. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-23-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] With all due respect, I would ask the MSZP fraction on my left to calm down, because there are two other agendas, and their speakers would also like to be heard under normal circumstances. István Ikotity, Member of the Parliament, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title library development source of HUF 212 million, with the intervention of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On the basis of the Ministerial Decree on the provision of textbooks, the Library Supply Nonprofit Kft. the amount remaining after carrying out its duties shall be used for the development of library staff in schools. The source is not only institutions under the authority of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, but also non-state schools can benefit from the number of students in schools. Last summer, the LMP submitted a simple written question about the amount of library development resources allocated to the institutions for 2013 and we received the answer that HUF 212 million remained at KELLO after performing its tasks. Unsuspectingly, we didn't think that this amount hadn't been paid to the schools last year. Let us add again that we are talking about the remaining resources after the 2013 activity. As Vice-President of the Cultural Committee, the author of the question on previous development resources, I was also approached by the Library Teachers' Association, because KELLO did not account for this more than HUF 200 million even at the beginning of this year. We tried to do something about it, asked several questions to the human resource minister, Zoltán Balog, asking about the payment of resources. Finally, the library development source of HUF 212 million remained from 2013 with the LMP intervention. Recently, the ordering interface from which the call for development funds will be available has been opened to the institutions. Otherwise, the possibility has not been made public, since the schools have not even been informed about it separately. However, the IT interface used for this purpose also raised a lot of objections, and, to put it mildly, they did not make it easy for schools to do so. However, although the government and KELLO have come to mind, unfortunately, after a considerable delay, they have not been able to give the institutions a really useful opportunity. The library provider is very limited by the possibility of ordering school libraries. It turns out that the books are very limited and can only be ordered from the stock left in KELTO's warehouse. So, from the textbooks that the students bought that year, from the textbooks that were left of this set. They simply did not assess who needed, needs, or really intended to restrict the possibility of ordering. Of course, it also arises that the stock that is left behind, which cannot be sold otherwise, is somehow made money. Schools could finally get this opportunity to choose not only from books on the short list, but also to spend their development money on books they want. I wonder why KELO won't let you do this. The real needs of libraries cannot be met by the system. Are you afraid, for example, that the new books of some publishers since then, such as the books of Mosaic Publishing, will be returned to schools? Moreover, the works of the otherwise sought and ordered compulsory literary authors were only available in the system for a few days. But even if a volume is available, only one copy of it can be ordered to the entire school library. This whole thing hasn't really been made up. [[14.40]] Dear House, After cuts in the past period, 200 billion HUF is missing from the operation of public education maintenance, development and improvement of quality are virtually barely available. Even if an innovative proposal, an EU proposal, is published, at the end, it often happens that the Öveges programme is exposed - which is also found out by the May Other Politics - to who knows who they are going to; they are not so used in most cases, a lot of payments are made that are not for the purpose. This is why it would be particularly important for the education government to fulfil at least its statutory obligation and to give early support to schools for the development of libraries. What is more, do not tie the hands of schools, let them buy from this money books that they need locally, with which they can really raise the quality of education and which interest children and educators. According to the LMP, that would be the goal. Therefore, the errors mentioned above must be corrected in order to prevent this from happening at the next order. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-23-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Why can't Hungarian transport companies speak Hungarian? Mr István Szávay, from the Jobbik Group, spoke with a title after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-23-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to many people, the Kádár system was a time travel into its compromiseal servoilism, when even a few years ago the speakers of our railway stations mentioned the names of our historic cities torn by the Romanian, Serbian, Slovak and Ukrainian names. Fortunately, as a result of the unfolding public uproar, MÁV changed its practice until then, so its speakers have been using the Hungarian names of Hungarian settlements in foreign Hungary again since 2009. However, in the last five years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has completely forgotten the other symbolic but important issue related to the problem: the written name use of Hungarian state-owned transport companies. Based on his letter to me by Csongor Botos, and other anonymous citizens' requests, we are aware of a number of outrageous cases. The 100 percent Hungarian state-owned MÁV and Volán, as well as 65.6 percent Hungarian state-owned Győr-Sopron-Ebenfurti Vasút Zrt., i.e. GYSEV stops, stations and railway stations located in Hungary, can be found only in the Internet timetables, on the doors and displays of train and bus services which they have launched, and on the tickets and passes issued by these companies in foreign languages instead of the Hungarian names of foreign settlements. This is particularly outrageous and incomprehensible in the light of the fact that in some cases the Hungarian names of these settlements are also mentioned in some form, so the general practice of this would probably not violate any international conventions or regulations. But let us consider some specific examples. For example, if we search the electronic rail information system of the MÁV - elvinra.hu - for flights to foreign settlements, we find that although the system knows the Hungarian name, and it also appears in parentheses behind the currently official foreign name, for example, on the search surface, it does not do so in the detailed indicator, there is only Novi Sad available instead of Novi Sad. There are similar oddities on train station timetable displays. While in the case of the Keleti railway station, the name of Paris first appears in Hungarian and then in French, the name of Cluj Napoca or Oradea is found only as Cluj Napoca and Oradea. On the other hand, the tickets issued by MÁV are already consistent, i.e. that unfortunately they do not appear in any way the Hungarian name of the locality from abroad. However, the high degree of inconsistencies, and thus the possibility for the previously mentioned transport companies to decide on a local name display, are also reflected in the international bus schedule of the Volán Group on the Internet. The 95 percent Hungarians' Székelyudvarhely is listed only as Odorheiu Secuiesc on the company's Internet schedule, bus doors and on the tickets issued. On the other hand, Paris is written three times in Hungarian and twice in French, and the Párkány in Felvidék is, for some reason, honored with the fact that his name was written in Hungarian - the only one of the separated settlements - in Hungarian, yes, only once and then in parentheses. However, the southern settlements currently belonging to Serbia did not get this much: in their case, the South Plain Transport Centre, former Tisza Volán, is willing to use only the Serbian name. The presentation of foreign town names in international railway and bus schedules, at railway stations, stations and railway stations, as well as on tickets and passes in Hungarian is an important symbolic issue, which specifically disturbs many Hungarians from abroad and from the motherland, but may also prevent understanding. It is incomprehensible why it is not possible to include in parentheses at least the Hungarian name of the municipality of the Carpathian Basin in each case. But I'm also sure that it wouldn't prevent anyone from turning the order around and putting the Hungarian name of the settlement first, adding the name currently used in parentheses. It would be welcome if at least Hungarian state-owned companies could rise above decades of socialist alienation, since the inconsistencies mentioned above also show that they are obviously not bound by international treaties when it comes to the publication and indication of foreign settlement names. Together with many Hungarians from abroad and Hungary, I can only hope that the government will feel the weight of the problem and will do as soon as possible to ensure that Hungarian transport companies can always speak Hungarian. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-23-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary László Tasó responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-23-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, they can say everything to pro-government politicians, Fidesz, KDNP, but not to work to bring the Hungarian nation back together. [[István Szávay: I did not say that!]] be strong again, and that we would not be the first on matters of symbolic importance, you cannot say that. Everything else can be suggested in such a comment, everything else can and even marked otherwise that we may, like the previous period, strengthen the fragmentation, but I think that this is not a very right and good act for us, and we do not deserve it. [[István Szávay: I didn't attack at all, really!]] But to answer your question precisely, since you have mentioned very precise terms, I will also try to recall the text, as I was forced to ask for help, because I also have doubts whether we will always proceed as we do, and whether we can always do what we think from the heart. The precise information at the moment is that the regulations of the International Railway Association govern how to use cross-border settlements, and an international practice determines what to do. Do you think that there is a Hungarian bus driver or train driver, train attendant or train employee who would not prefer to go to Székelyudvarhely instead of the name mentioned above? I think that there are, in any case, only those in our system - as in the system that is interested in maintaining Hungarian transport - who think of this in the same way as we all do in this Parliament together. It is likely that all you can do is to act according to the following principles, which I will list. It is stated that the railway ticket must bear only the station name in the public timetable fields, on the train and coach guideboards and on the station visual information equipment. So they are going on a mandatory course, otherwise they are not changing this on their own, so this is a precise resolution. Now I can tell you and tell you what we're reading about this. The Hungarian name may appear as a reference name in the station list of the public timetable, in the search engine Elvira online, but it may not be the Hungarian name in the first place, so I confirm it, the information and the ticket can only be issued by the official name of the railway station. So it doesn't depend on what they intend to do with it, it's simply a mandatory practice that we have to perform. By the way, Hungarian publications and leaflets already naturally feature the Hungarian name everywhere, and only mention the foreign name in parentheses. In any case, however, in the foreign language publication, names should be indicated according to the name used in the schedule book, so the name of the municipality is also indicated. In the case of international trains, it is necessary to use a single name material regardless of the railway undertaking or the country, and the Hungarian railway also acts accordingly. Therefore, the International Railway Association clearly allows and requires us to use the names listed in the schedule in the European flight manifest. There is a schedule book No. 411, which is a decision, and we are obliged to do so. [[14.50]] In 2012-13, the Geographical Name Committee also defined the Hungarian names, which are naturally, as I said, listed everywhere as a reference name. The point is, where we're going, when we're leaving the current borders and where we're going, it's on the inside. I don't need a name tag. Thank you for your question, your comment. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-23-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting on Thursday at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good evening and a good return home. [[Meeting ended at 1:52 p.m.]]
