u2015-12-15-0	Dear Parliament, The 29th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and István Tiba will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address:.2015: losers and winners. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-12-15-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister of Hungary started the year, and I quote: The following years should be about the hardworking people and their families who work every day. In comparison, this year was only about the migration crisis. Meanwhile, power competes with wage cuts for the favors of various assembly plants. Viktor Orbán has made Hungary a servant of German and other global corporations. The result of this is that young people today have virtually a choice between public work and emigration. I would suggest to you that if yesterday's figures did not convince you that only HUF 920 billion had been transferred home last year, this is 3 percent of GDP. I think it's a pretty massive number. A country without grandchildren is threatening me. The other process that has taken place this year is the gang war, so that the winners of this policy, the national winners of this policy, will be designated by supreme law by Orange rule. Among the winners of the gang war are, of course, the local farmer Lőrinc Mészáros, where we can find István Garancsi and his interests, who, in a tricky way, obtained access by law to ESMA Kft. To buy it, the HUF 25 billion managed by government communication must be scattered somewhere. Among the winners are Andy Vajna, who was bestowed by the government with the online gambling business. There are relatives, who are allowed to enter the public procurement market again by amending the public procurement law a few weeks ago, and thus create new feudal relations in Hungary. Unfortunately, the story is not only about the institutionalization of corruption in Hungary, but also about those who will be the winners of this system, who will certainly not create real value in Hungary. However, it is noteworthy that among the new winners, whether we think of the Garancsi interest circle or Andy Vajna, there are those who have offshore companies watching in their net, and there are offshore companies where the goods of the gifts received here in Hungary can be placed beautifully. Dear Parliament, Meanwhile, processes are taking place in Hungary that, for example, the investment rate has fallen free again. If we take off EU funds, the investment rate in Hungary in 2015, I say, without EU funds, is approximately 13 percent. Public investment dominates here, and in the last quarter, private sector investments are falling sharply. Without value-creating investments, there will be no wage increase in Hungary. Emigration and declining investment will also eliminate the remaining economic growth. Public sector wages are artificially held down by the government. A clear sign of this is the employment of public workers in public employment. Compared to 2010, the proportion of working poor has increased by 3 percent in Hungary, with one third of households living below the minimum level of living. To raise the public sector's wages, raise the minimum wage to the minimum wage, otherwise we would have the money, but the problem is that this money is being stolen. What should we do? First of all, the state existed, or the state had 380,000 hectares in its hands during the year, which you are beating up, can be used to give land to disadvantaged settlements and social cooperatives so that they can give people value-making jobs. Anti-corruption rules that close the pump in the Hungarian national economy must be put in place. I am thinking of our proposal to mop up the offshore knights. I am thinking of our package of laws on predictability, such as the bill that we had drafted last spring, concerning the compulsory investigation of political wealth. And, of course, immediately the minimum wage must be increased by 30 percent to reach the minimum wage. The wage bill for civil servants, which has been frozen for eight years, must be replaced, but the most important economic step and the step leading to wage growth is to put back the HUF 200-250 billion that is missing each year into education. Last but not least, with job-creating aid, these subsidies should not be filled with assembly plants, the pockets of multinationals, but should be provided to the domestic SME sector and cooperatives. A decision has to be made: we want a assembly country without grandchildren or a renewable Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2015-12-15-3	Honourable Congressman, In your speech, you wanted to talk about the winners and losers of 2015 and we heard accusations without any specifics. I understand the purpose of this, but let me say that, in addition to the accusations, I am deeply lacking in the results of the past year. The results that all Hungarians can claim are the common results that we hope will improve the living conditions of Hungarian families. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Which one?]] and those that prove that the Hungarian reforms are working. Allow me to mention some of these. In 2014, Hungarian economic growth was at the forefront of Europe, and this is expected to be true by 2015. It wasn't always like that. Before the change of government, there was a year when the economy grew by 7 percent, which was what the Left called expert governance. The fact that Hungarian reforms are working and the economy is growing has also affected wages. Real wages increased by 5 percent in the previous year, and this growing trend is expected to be true for 2015. It is also important that in 2015 energy prices were kept lower and the cost reduction was protected. This still means that electricity and gas prices are quarterly lower than the previous period. Ildikó Lendvai should be proud of us. Let me continue the line. I think it is a serious joint result that foreign exchange loans have been managed, and thanks to bank accountability, the burden of 1.3 million families has been reduced, with a total of HUF 1000 billion. This also means that 74 percent of credit contracts have been reduced. [[Dr. András Schiffer: After the forint?]] The government believes that strengthening families is one of its most important tasks. Therefore, the fact that family taxation has fulfilled its expectations remains in the pockets of hundreds of billions of forints. It also serves to strengthen families by providing special tax incentives for young married people. They are also supported by new home-building support, which can be used to expand new and used apartments. These measures may also have an important role to play in increasing both the desire to have children and the desire to marry by 5 percent. This is a result that you may even enjoy regardless of party affiliation. [[8.10]] There is much talk about the feeding of children in this House these days as well. I would like to report that instead of the previous 92,000, 318 thousand children now receive free meals several times a day. I do not want to hide the fact that in 2015 800,000 children had received a free textbook. It also shows that the left is just talking about the care of children while the government is working to ensure that no child in this country is in need. Allow me to mention another result to which all Hungarians can be proud: today there are 550 thousand more people working than in 2010. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How much?]] The fact is that since the change of regime, Hungary has never had as many people working in Hungary as it is now. The operationality of the Hungarian reforms is indicated by the fact that the number of unemployed has not been as low in more than eight years as today. The work is therefore much more valued today than it was before 2010. Honourable Congressman, As regards your proposals, I would like to remind you that the LMP has had a tax proposal before. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] so you would have introduced a 25% tax rate [[Dr. András Schiffer: Exactly!]] That's exactly 10 percent more than it's gonna be from January. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] This also means that if you were in government today, the most important thing would be the Hungarian families. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Some families!]] Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Let's honor each other by listening to each other. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of the Group of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda: on current affairs. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-12-15-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We should talk all year about those needy people whose situation the government, whatever color it is, should be able to help in any circumstances. But especially in the time of Christmas, we need to talk about all those who are not or are less concerned with the holiday; about those who do not have savings, but who have a sure present and hopeful future or plans; about those who live in homes, elderly care or public care; and about all those who try to help them who work for them. They are the ones who are in no better position in Hungary today than those who are in need. We've talked a lot about a raise, but maybe not enough. As we approach the end of the year holidays, we need to talk about those civil servants who live in poverty in Hungary today. They are employees of the state, although, as we overlook the government's policy, they are more slaves, because in this country, the government now seems to use them as a central principle that everyone is worth as much as they have. You think in such a country today; those who do the most for this country are least appreciated and deserve much more. The whole human health and social sphere is in deep flight, but even compared to the entire sector, there are extremely low salaries in the social care system. Dear Secretary of State, Do you know that after 2010, you have drastically withdrawn funds from the social sphere? Do you know, Mr Secretary of State, that in 2014 the average income in this sector was HUF 105 413 gross? The net value of this is barely 70,000 forints. Fact and fact: In 2015 the bonus was minimally increased, it was put on the basic wage, but even so it does not reach the 2014 average, namely the HUF 87 351 that is the minimum level of living. The vast majority of the state's employees live below the minimum level of existence, Mr. Secretary of State. The substitute is not a solution, the profession has said that, and very little. What is a state capable of keeping its own employees below minimum living standards? Whose interest is it, Mr. Secretary of State, that employees of the social sphere should be forced to work for such low salaries? I mean, who's gonna notice they're just exorcising this system? Nearly a million other poor people who need care and care? Dear Secretary of State, It is no coincidence that there is no longer a trade union, a trade union, an economic operator who does not talk about raising salaries. Hungary's competitiveness, career leaving and decent wages are demanded by all stakeholders. I'm sorry the government can't hear those voices. Perhaps the first step would be, last week we started the debate to ensure that the payments made in November and December are made by the state to all its employees. I know very well that the Secretary of State will explain that this is all in order; then call your secretary of state for the education, health and social sectors and ask if the employees of the state have received their salaries in November and December. Another demand is that immediate increases be made to workers in the sector. We need a 50 percent raise, Mr. Secretary of State, or what happens last week at St. Imre's Hospital, and today at St. Laszlo's Hospital, and God knows how many hospitals in the next few weeks are going to quit the service of the paramedics and nurses. Immediately, let the government sit down with the relevant representatives and trade unions and develop a long-term strategy to ensure that wage management does not create tension even within the sector, that a nurse, assistant, depending on the fact that she works in a social care system, earns much less than she does in health care. This is unacceptable! It's the shame of the whole country if you don't change that. This is not a party policy issue. Thank you for listening.
u2015-12-15-6	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-15-7	Honourable Congressman, I'm really glad you brought up the pay raises. When a couple waved a raise [[József Tobias: Pay!]] The best starting point is to see if he raised wages when he was in power. The thing is, you did the exact opposite. While the minimum wage increased by two and a half times during the first civilian government, there was hardly any increase under left-wing governments. But that's not all. [[Tobias József intervenes.]] When you governed, you took a month's wages from public sector employees. [[György Balla: That's right!]] while they're being referred to. [[József Tobias: You've been ruling for five years!]] In addition, a month's pension was taken. It is a sad fact, but it is still a fact that real earnings did not increase between 2002 and 2010. There's no way they're gonna come back with a promise of wage increases. By contrast, after 2010 the Hungarian economy started to grow [[József Tobias: Sit down, Secretary of State.]] and this also means that Hungary could have gone through a period of slow wage growth. The minimum wage has increased to 105 thousand forints since 2010 [[József Tobias: Gross! And what's the tax on it?]] This also means that the second largest increase in the minimum wage was in Hungary between 2010 and 2014. [[József Tobias: Gross wages!]] This positive trend will continue in the future. Real incomes have increased by 10 percent since 2010, and family taxation contributes to this. Wage increases affect several layers of society [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Then why are there four million poor people?]] In recent years, the wages of teachers, the wages of health workers, the wages of social and child protection workers have also increased, and the benefits of soldiers and police officers have been increased, followed by further increases in 2016. A career model for public service workers will also be launched shortly. The government's measures serve to keep more in people's pockets, which is what the expansion of family tax relief is about from January, and also the reduction of VAT. If the MSZP really wants a wage increase, it supports further tax reductions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.20]]
u2015-12-15-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group: Viktor! Don't you see? They're mobsters! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr Zsolt Tiffán's Fidesz MPs were chosen as the title of my speech: Viktor! Don't you see? They're mobsters! This is what Zsolt Tiffán wrote on Facebook. I thought that you should be confronted with these lines, because perhaps you will accept better from your fellow Member that your party is full of corruption and suspected abuse cases. And it is important to recall these words because we do not know who Zsolt Tiffán was thinking about, and if there has been any consequence of these serious words. On the other hand, we can agree that there has been a rare frankness attack from Zsolt Tiffán, and we should not leave it at that. But if we do not go back so early, we will see only what was said at the Fidesz convention, then we will find many shocking statements there. For example, Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz faction, said that there is no need to pay so much attention to the government's nearby corruption charges, that is, no matter how the Fidesz moonyard gets rich, people only have to pay attention to the country's growth. This is double-freaking, because, on the one hand, even if we were to accept that people are growing, the country is growing, so far, many feel that only the fidesz moonyard can grow - but even if it were true, could it be stolen? I do not think that the country's growth would be an exception to the way politicians are involved in public money. Especially in a country that has lost 2.5 to 3 times its public debt since the early eighties and nineties, so much money has been stolen by the political set. And you can no longer point to socialist governments, because you have been in government for almost six years, and if you count the first Orbán government, the Prime Minister has been called Viktor Orbán for 10 years out of the last 25 years. However, one or two cases must be recalled. When can we find out who was involved in the U.S. ban scandal, if other NAV leaders were involved besides Vida Ildikó? And by the way, speaking of NAV, when are the hundreds of billions of suspected cases of abuse being investigated? When will we know who the people who saved money from Quaestor were among them state leaders, politicians? And when can we see clearly in the offshore settlement government bond business, which has already been referred to as the 70 billion-dollar business, and when can we see the background of that? Instead of calling for exploration, you will go to the gas pedal in Muty: the relatives of state leaders will also be able to take part in public procurement. And we can also see that it has now been modified that propertyisation investigations cannot be launched in the future, only if there is ongoing criminal proceedings - and also in corruption cases... Our clear proposals were as follows. We would also make the declaration of wealth of politicians' relatives public, which was already done by Jobbik's representatives; mandatory propertyisation investigation at the beginning and at the end of the term to Members of Parliament. And let us not forget that, if the legal origin of an asset is not guaranteed, it should be subject to compulsory confiscation and double punishment for politicians to commit crimes related to their role in public life, not to mention the abolition of immunity. These are specific points that you could put in place. We would support you even if it meant a two-thirds amendment to the law. And of course, you can say to all of our points that Béla Kovács, this is a very easy way to go, but I think they're starting to take it out on themselves. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Béla Kovács is not charged with corruption. He's not charged with corruption. [[György Balla: The largest party funder...]] And you're starting to think of him as the biggest corruption case in world history. [[György Balla: Party financing...]] There can be no party financing because Béla Kovács has made a clear statement about the amounts he has supported Jobbik. By the way, these weren't that big a deal. And by the way, it doesn't bother you that only government politicians have more value than 15-20 years of legal income. Of course, this can be smithed, but then let's light everyone up: Fidesz, Jobbik, MSZP, all Members, and then come up with the results. Gábor Vona raised it to Viktor Orbán earlier, asking him if he was putting his hand on fire for Árpád Habony, Andy Vajna or Lárinc Mészáros - neither he put his hand on fire nor you applied. You always say that we should take concrete steps. Árpád Habony, we've initiated a propertyisation investigation into his little party in Ibiza. We hope that this will be ordered by the NAV this year, because next year, thanks to you, this will not be possible. So we want this to happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-10	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2015-12-15-11	Congressman! You used the word mobsters in your speech. To tell you the truth, I'm a little disappointed because I thought you were going to use today's opportunity to clarify Tamás Sneider's earlier sentences, who said that a better-looking campaign manager should be friends with even mobsters. We have been waiting a long time for this statement to be clarified. It's unfortunate that it won't happen today. However, there is something else to clarify, let us say, the case of János Volner's company cemetery. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] Mr President, Mr President, Member of the Council has previously established and managed several companies that have been charged or cancelled with the tax administration still trying to collect tens of millions of forints of tax debt on them. How can Jobbik claim transparency if the party otherwise leaves behind companies? How? ! And, of course, we can't forget the most important case. Yes, it's Béla Kovács. It may be uncomfortable to face this issue regularly here in Parliament, but we still don't know exactly who Béla Kovács has acted for; how much he has brought to Jobbik in puttony; and how many Béla Kovács is still in Jobbik. It is a striking fact that Gábor Vona recently said on a show that there is a Béla Kovács case. In another interview, he said he heard things that were unsettling; it's time for everyone to know exactly what they were. A corruption debate day has recently been held here in this House. His own Facebook page is proof that Béla Kovács followed the speeches, and he recommended this debate. Instead of posting all kinds of posts, it would have been fair if you'd come in here and come clean. There's a seat for an MEP here, you could have. In any case, Jobbik has performed the unique feat that it has not yet been put on the government, yet it is sitting to the bone in corruption cases. No one can be pleased with this performance, least of all the Hungarian people and the voters who have honored you with their trust. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]]
u2015-12-15-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, KDNP: before Christmas, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-12-15-13	Mr President, Dear House, On the last day of the year, it may be appropriate to think back for a few sentences for the last year, and since this is also the last day of the meeting before Christmas, a few toasts are required. This year has brought good news within the border, but there are serious concerns across the border. The news within the border was primarily about the growth and strengthening of the Hungarian economy, which also had social consequences: employment increased; average earnings increased. And it should be noted here that there is a wage increase in certain social groups, such as teachers, in the career model. However, there are social groups, such as hospital nurses, where we are standing ahead of them, and there is a great need for this secure and powerful growth. However, there is a serious challenge going on across the border, and the European left-wing leadership has given a very bad answer to this challenge, which means that there is a set of problems in a culture with serious problems, which is now raised to the state level, which is reinforced by the demographic explosion in Islam. This has created a situation that, sooner or later, has triggered a conflict that we are witnessing today. However, we also need to see that this is a controlled immigration, economic and political reason. The question to us is what this response was like on the part of the European Left. [[8.30]] Central Europe, on the other hand, has a chance, and this chance is guaranteed by adherence to Christian roots, traditional values, and the operation of self-defense reflexes. But it's Christmas in ten days. This is the second greatest festival in the Christian world, which has a message not only for believers but also for unbelievers, for all of us. And this message is about turning to one another, about sensitivity to another, about human love. The Bethlehem child was born in a family, and we celebrate Christmas in a family. So when we talk about the other person, we talk about the safest place of love, the family. The aim of all responsible politicians is for Hungarian families to fulfil their role, their caring, educating, protective function. When a child is born, his way of life is determined by what family he is born in. Under orderly family circumstances, there is obviously an opportunity for a later career. But there are families where the lack of money, unemployment or the kind of trouble that can no longer raise the child and provide for his education, well, in these families, children do not have a certain future. Helping families, especially poor families, is a duty for all of us. Several measures were taken this year that served this purpose. Think of the extension of the tax relief, the extra child, the large support for child feeding, which is one of the elements of the opposition campaign strategy, the elimination of child hunger. And, of course, the aim was also to help low-income and poor families by launching a public work programme. These need to be continued. However, the fact that the government programme also serves the institution of the family in Hungary means strengthening all families. I wish now, with Christmas approaching, that this celebration will bring peace and love to the Hungarian families, and I wish all my fellow Members a blessed, peaceful Christmas. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-12-15-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I would like to start with what you have concluded: this is the last day of the sitting here in Parliament this year. Even though we are still weak, I, too, wish you a blessed, merry Christmas and a happy new year to all the factions here and here. I'm gonna put this word "Christmas" under there. Mr Fraction Manager also pointed out that Europe needs to rediscover the Christian roots that give European identity. Sometimes, with a little horror, sometimes in addition to horror, we saw that trend smiling in the western part of Europe when Christian roots were denied or pushed back. We hope that this path, now called by everyone, to the dead end of multiculturalism, will finally be given up by European politicians and will return to the rediscovery of European identity. When Europe was renewed, it always went back to the Christian roots. We can think of the last one, after the Second World War, when the basis for the reconciliation between the Germans and the French was precisely the Christian Democratic policy that was rooted in Christianity and its kind of political manifestation. And we saw, as I said earlier, the sometimes horrifying things when they said in Brussels that the Christmas tree could no longer be set up, because it violates the sensitivity of some immigrants, or when some leaders said that the Christian symbols should be removed in the camps, in schools where the proportion of immigrants is very high. We hope that no one can misinterpret what patience means, what inclusion means, because we Europeans must not change, we must assimilate immigrants here, but immigrants must accept European culture, of which Christianity is an integral part. Thus, it must not be the way many have said in recent times. Perhaps the Christmas celebration of the school next to Milan is one of the most striking examples that has been turned into a winter celebration, and they no longer sang religious Christmas songs, saying that they should not hurt immigrants. I think that no one should be offended by the fact that we live by our worldview, because they knew that they were coming to such a continent. But what we think of the world comes precisely from redemption, redemption, from the belief that 2 thousand years ago, the Savior was born here on Earth, who redeemed all men, and gave the same human dignity to all men. This is what is different from people from other continents, from other cultures and from other religions, that we consider the same human dignity to be important to everyone, without discrimination, in the case of men and women or in the case of people of different world views, because two thousand years ago the Savior came to them all. And since he has redeemed all of us from our sins at Easter, we respect everyone in the same way and consider the lives of all people equally important. That is why we reject violence, since the Savior also suffered the golgota by rejecting violence. And that is why we consider peace to be important in addition to human dignity and reject any terrorist or other assassinations or other means. But I wouldn't want to talk too much about it, but I will turn to what Congressman said to support families. Let's look at the last year, because Christmas is the time when families gather. We have sought to ensure that wherever possible and where families are growing, there is no financial obstacle to this. This is why next year the tax relief for the second child will be increased as part of a four-year programme, to a double overall, so we will take over the cost of children's meals from the parents of children in kindergarten and kindergarten, which is already paid by the state for nine out of ten children, thus increasing the number of these children from 92 thousand to 318 thousand. That's why we're taking over the cost of textbooks from families, this year's first three, next year's first four classes. If you have a child, who is growing a family, with more and more people each year under the Christmas tree, you can be sure not only of the family type tax relief, but now for young children, you can expect multiple meals a day, or for schoolchildren to give textbooks free of charge. Similarly, a privileged relationship with churches has been important in recent years. We are voting on church law today; it will be revealed whether opposition parties are in favour of closing international debates - or whether they are interested in continuing - and whether we are able to create orderly states. But it is also very important that, through wage increases in recent years, the number of people who, for some reason, are at risk of poverty or social exclusion has now fallen by more than 600 thousand. They're the ones who can prepare for Christmas with the sure middle class existence. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-15-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, Fidesz Group, also asked for a speech before the agenda. The man whose house is on fire is shouting. Hungary, which is loud from the corruption cases of the MSZP. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-12-15-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We had the Fidesz convention this weekend. At our convention, we talked about civil arrangements, migration, support for families, job creation. But when the opposition was asked about this convention, they were not talking about these subjects. However, the future of Hungary depends on whether we can protect the country from illegal immigrants and whether we believe that without strong and successful families, we have no strong and successful country. After that, the opposition does not want to talk about these extremely important issues, but, as always, here today, about corruption. And I can tell you that the man whose house is on fire is yelling. The government is accused of who even their own friends gave a devastating opinion on, as Transparency International's report published in 2008 says that corruption was then widespread in Hungary and is particularly dangerous at the meeting points of the business and public sphere, as it was written then. Corruption is a Latin word, meaning corruption, corruption. [[8.40]] Those who have brought corruption and corruption to Hungary in both economic and moral terms are shouting. The left destroyed Hungary, and for years the news had been all over the news about the MSZP politicians who were going to prison and court. So the concept of corruption accurately reflects the quality of left-wing governance: corruption, corruption, destruction. The period between 2002 and 2010 was full of corruption cases, and today we are accused of corruption by those who have squandered the country's wealth. It says a lot about the eight - year - old left government that their most memorable symbol was the nocical box. A valley bridge was built between hills, and tunnels were built in the wilderness, or EU projects such as the 40 centimeter bodrogkeresztúr lookout tower or the drégélypalánk dog fitness centre. On the other hand, immediately after the current government took office, it declared zero tolerance to corruption, but the opposition is swarming with corruption. Let's look at some. Ferenc Juhász's contribution to the purchase of Fapál Ferenc's apartment: the court declared Ferenc Juhász guilty of misappropriation. Black Cassette at the Yoga City MSZP. They've ordered an investigation into the Yoga City MSZP black cash register. The proceedings will be conducted by the NAV's competent directorate against an unknown unsub, a breach of the accounting system and a suspicion of other criminal offences. Hundreds of millions of dollars in Gábor Simon's account. Gábor Simon, former vice-president of MSZP, found out in early February 2014 that he holds hundreds of millions of HUF in an account in Vienna, which he did not mention in his declarations of assets. Later it was also made public that it had opened an account in Hungary with a passport from Guinea-Bissau, which also had millions. The Central Investigator's Attorney General suspects the former vice president of the MSZP of nearly HUF 100 million in budget fraud and five counts of false use of private documents. Loyal Dezső is accused of accepting a bribe. Unfaithful treatment in Sukoró: they remember this case surely, in October 2015 the Sukoro case ended in the first degree. Miklós Tátrai, the former managing director of the land exchange contract 4, received 3.5 years in prison. Ferenc Gyurcsány must have stood up for both of them for a reason. However, corruption is not far from Jobbik, because the party has not yet cleared up the worst corruption scandal of all time, the Béla Kovács case. The Jobbik representative is charged with Russian espionage. Gábor Vona has to answer how and how Béla Jobbik Kovács could receive millions of grants, as well as why he has not examined his representative's case to this day, and what he means by saying in connection with the KáGéBéla case that I have heard many things, including things that I expect to be answered. We also expect an answer, dear right-wing Members, as well as an answer as to why Jobbik was unable to account for the public funds. For years Jobbik failed to publish its financial report in the Hungarian Gazette in violation of the law, therefore the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office also launched an investigation against the party. But the corruption cases of the opposition are not over. Where there is still a socialist mayor running a settlement, suspicious cases appear again and again. Such as Szeged. The local transport company in Szeged. has billed more than 300 free parking passes. It is said that the invoice was issued to the municipality from a fraction of the market price, but it was not even paid. This case is being investigated for misappropriation. Dear House, So we see that he's screaming [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The one whose house is on fire, the opposition is full of corruption cases. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-15-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-15-19	Honourable Congressman, In your speech, you pointed out that the period 2002-2010 was the most corrupt government ever. Yes, we have pondered here in this House, but we still cannot decide what is the most ideal symbol of this period, the phantom associations of János Zuschlag, the tunnels built in the wilderness, the lookout to the knees, the valley bridge across the hills, or simply a nocical box. That's really hard to decide. One thing is certain, after the current government took office, it declared zero tolerance to corruption. This is reflected in the new basic law, which identifies as an obligation the responsible management of state assets. This was very necessary, because left-wing governments squandered the Hungarian public wealth, it is enough to think only of the camp of Csillebérci recently reclaimed by the state. However, the current government has repaid a decade of debt when it has made party financing more transparent. The new law allows parties to farm from a framework that is really enough to run a campaign during the campaign period. This ensures that parties can operate independently of any external influence. And if someone breaks the rules, they're strictly responsible. The new government has also done a lot in the fight against the black economy. One of the keys to this is the introduction of an online cash register, which makes it difficult to hide corporate revenues and also contributes to reducing black employment. Another significant step is the introduction of the electronic toll system in 2015. This will help prevent VAT fraud related to transport. By the way, this new system can increase VAT revenue by tens of billions forints a year. I would also like to refer to the new Public Procurement Act. Even with the amendments, Europe's strictest public procurement law is in Hungary today; it is more stringent than any previous law that has been in force in Hungary. While, under left-wing governments, public procurement was won by offshore companies, the new law excludes offshore companies from public procurement. Today we are talking about public procurement in Hungary. Everyone can see who started and who won. However, the new law has become more lifelike and easier to enforce. Honourable Congressman, The government will continue to do its utmost to curb corruption, to listen to proposals, but will not accept lectures from parties who are still full of corruption cases, even if they are far from the burden of governance. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-15-20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Allow me to wish everyone a blessed Christmas and a happy new year of success in my name. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A consolidated debate on the proposal to amend certain laws in the context of economic growth follows in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/8196. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I will give the floor first to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, author of the bill, Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-12-15-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary aims to ensure that all Hungarian families get their own apartments as cheaply as possible, so we reduce the VAT on housing construction from 27 percent to 5 percent. This is one of the most important elements of this bill, which also means that all housing construction in Hungary will be cheaper from 1 January 2016 if this bill is adopted by this House. The precise technical schedule of VAT reductions should be envisaged in such a way that, as appropriate, when buying property built by others, the VAT content of the final invoice is reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. However, if we are talking about own-owned housing, the government will make an additional provision to this law, and there, as a matter of fact, the VAT content of the building accounts can be recovered according to the government's vision per construction, i.e. up to HUF 5 million per house. Both allow the construction of a flat or a house in Hungary to actually cost significantly less. Why is that necessary? On one side, indeed, so that Hungarian families can get their own homes as much cheaper as possible. On the other hand, we need to see that the number of farms in Hungary shows that the rate of housing construction has been very far behind, let us say, compared to that of Poland - and I am referring to the construction of new apartments - where, by the way, the VAT rate has already been reduced for the construction of new apartments for a long time. [[8.50]] The example that the Hungarian government has set for itself is perhaps the low VAT that can be interpreted as widely as possible from European examples, because, as we know, the decision of a national government is not enough to reduce VAT within the European Union, and it also requires the approval of Brussels, so that it can be integrated into the European Union framework. For this reason, before the government made its proposal to reduce VAT and prepared and submitted it to you, we had studied the examples currently in place in Europe. Here I can tell you that the most gallant system of current European examples is in Poland, and the Hungarian government has adapted its proposal to this. In Poland, the lowest VAT rate is 7 percent, whereas in Hungary it will be 5 percent. This is obviously due to the fact that Poland employs 7 percent as a preferential VAT rate and Hungary uses 5 percent as a preferential VAT rate. But we also have to add that in Poland the reduced VAT rate applies to flats up to 150 sq m and to houses up to 300 sq m, which is exactly how it will be in Hungary. So the falling VAT from 27 per cent to 5 per cent will apply to flats up to 150 sq m and to houses up to 300 sq m. If you look at it, Poland, which has used the lower VAT rate for a longer period of time, will have 37,7 new housing constructions per 10,000 inhabitants per year. In Hungary, on the other hand, this figure corresponds to 8.5. Therefore, I think that we have something to encourage in new housing. I must add, ladies and gentlemen, that in Hungary the decline in housing has been observed since 2004. Since 2004, when, perhaps, we remember, the Socialist-Free Democratic Government has led out the preferential, state-supported housing loans, which previously boosted the construction of the new dwelling and really enabled the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, to access the cheaper housing. This proved to be a fatal mistake, a huge mistake. Before 2004, there was a year when the number of new housing constructions in Hungary was around 40,000 a year, but unfortunately today we are faced with a significant decline, with only 4 thousand new apartments being built every year in Hungary in the past year, and although the number of housing permits increased last year, so the number of applications is expected to increase, so the Government of Hungary wants to encourage this with a significant reduction in the VAT on housing. It is necessary not only to reduce the VAT on the final accounts of apartments built by others, but also to think of houses and properties built on their own, because if we look at the statistics, Hungary accounts for about 53 percent of the construction projects. Although this ratio may change, it can be seen that self-building has a very important role and significance in Hungary. That is why we focus on ensuring that the reduced VAT rate can be applied to all Hungarian families in both cases. However, it is not enough only to reduce the VAT on housing, but also to take further steps. For this reason, the same bill also includes a breakdown of the bureaucracy of building permits. We want to break down the bureaucracy of building permits because we not only want Hungarian families to get housing cheaper, but we want to make it easier for all constructions to happen in Hungary. To this end, we introduce the rule that the building permit is not required for property below 300 square meters, but there is only one obligation to notify, which means, of course, that the builder or the professional invited by him must undertake to comply with the applicable construction regulations. However, there is no need to ask for a specific authorisation here, the construction may start 15 days after the announcement, and then it will be up to the government offices to verify whether the construction was actually carried out in accordance with the rules, but this is practically the same as the procedure for the previous entry into service, so I must say to you that instead of two bureaucratic steps will be required, the construction permit procedure for the construction of the houses will be significantly simplified. Of course, the government has further ambitions, because on one side I would like to convince you that it is not only necessary to reduce the VAT on housing because it is cheaper for Hungarian families to get a house, but also because I think that building more apartments in Hungary means a lot more jobs. We expect the upswing of housing to create tens of thousands of jobs in the next three years. This is also important for the Hungarian economy and Hungarian families. I would like to tell you that in this bill we can undertake to enforce the lower VAT rate for the next four years, i.e. 2016-17-18-19. I think that it is about realistic to plan economically for this period, and here you can see what the performance of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget allow. It is clear that this VAT reduction could have taken place earlier. We wanted to, but the state of the Hungarian economy, the state of the budget, the Hungarian economy inherited from the Socialists in 2010 and the budget in very poor condition, the burden of high public debt and public debt did not allow this. In recent years, we have worked hard to see that the Hungarian reforms really work, economic growth has started, employment levels in Hungary have increased significantly, public debt has decreased, interest charges have also decreased significantly. Today, the budget can afford to encourage home creation by reducing the VAT rate for housing and helping families access to cheaper housing. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, this bill contains three additional provisions, which I think, of course, are also necessary for the recovery of the economy, and partly for the end of the year. The same bill includes amendments to the Local Business Tax Act and the Capital Fund Sharing Act. There are only two things I would like to say to this House. First of all, I would like to say that the Government is fulfilling the request of Lord Mayor István Tarlós, and Mr. Mayor has achieved his goal, which means that if this legislative provision is adopted by the House, then the metropolitan districts will contribute more to public transport financing than they have done so far. The negotiations between the capital and the districts took place more than six months ago. Two positions struggled with each other, the capital's request was that over the next two years, two per cent per year, and the district's negotiating proposal was to divert the allocation of funds to the capital by 1 per cent per year, which, of course, can only be used to finance public transport. The government therefore decided to choose the geometric centre and to divert the share of resources by one and a half percent each year from the districts to the capital for the next two years, thereby improving public transport and the financing of BKV. I must also add to you - and this is the other thing I would like to say - that in the same bill we also make it clear that from the local business tax revenue, the capital must first finance public transport as the most important task for it. I think that this will make it clear that in all circumstances, since the capital city's commercial tax revenue, especially with this diversion, will be significantly higher than the BKV's financing needs, the financing of public transport in the capital will continue to be ensured in the future. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, in general, in all cities, we are saying that business tax revenue can be used first for two purposes, social expenditure and public transport financing, and not for wages, only to the minimum extent possible, to the extent that other legislation allows municipalities to pay in this respect. This bill also includes an amendment to the film law. This amendment is necessary, because in the last three years in Hungary, film production has become an important sector of the national economy, because we are talking only about film production and not film distribution. [[9.00]] I have to tell you that, like other countries in Europe, Hungary's Government supports film production and film shooting in Hungary, but if we look at the results of support and budget revenue, Hungary has more budget revenue overall. The analyses carried out in recent years show that almost HUF 38 per 100 spent on every film shot in Hungary is transferred to the state register as direct revenue. Compared to this, the state supports film production between 20 and 25 HUF. In total, I must say to you that, in the worst case scenario, this means a HUF 12.5 extra revenue for the Hungarian state as direct budgetary revenue. And at that time I did not mention that it creates jobs in the same way, as significant amounts, tens of billions of forints are spent in Hungary for the production and production of foreign productions, all of which are jobs for Hungarian people, and revenue for Hungarian businesses. Therefore, the government considers it important that the legislation on film production is uniform and clear and that the funding of the film fund is ensured in all circumstances. In recent years, we have achieved that Hungary is in competition with Ireland or England, and our competitors in Central Europe have been significantly overcome. We would like to maintain this position, which is why we would like to ensure the financing of the film fund again this year, and continue to do so in the coming years. That's what the bill is about. On the other hand, it also has specific consumer protection aspects, as Jobbik's parliamentary representatives rightly pointed out yesterday at the committee meeting. This bill contains the provision that if a person buys a children's film either in the form of a DVD or another medium, the film trailer on it cannot be a higher category of film trailer than the ominous children's film itself. So, if you buy a movie for children under 6 years of age, you can't meet a movie trailer for children under 16 on the same DVD or on the same medium. We would also like to enforce this provision, which has already given rise to many maladministration, in this bill. In addition, the bill organises the Hungarian cinema visit statistics, as they are organised in a single system. We therefore believe that in the future, this will make viewers of films shot and watched in Hungary into clear and reliable statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, It also includes changes to the rules on the composition of the Economic Council. All we want to do here is to ensure that representation within the Economic Council is provided to all sides on an ongoing basis, even after the term of office has expired. This is also important for the minimum wage negotiations next year, and we want the minimum wage to increase, so that the functioning and quorum of the Economic Council must be ensured. Finally, the bill contains an amendment to the civil procedure. I believe that this is necessary because it is the right objective of the government that relations between a lawyer, a court and a prosecutor's office should take place in the future in an electronic form in civil litigation cases. I would like to tell this House that the government has fulfilled its duty in this regard. This means that the relevant system has been set up, yesterday it had its test run, and this test operation has proved to be a success. However, there are still nearly a thousand lawyers in Hungary who do not have electronic access. Given the fact that we are close to the holidays, I think that it cannot be ensured that this will be resolved in such a short time, so if it were to enter into force on 1 January, this would mean that they would, as appropriate, be excluded from the representation of civil litigation cases. Therefore, the government proposes that the entry into force be postponed by six months, and otherwise, in this six-month period, whoever wants to use the system can use it, which thus also acts as a test operation. I would therefore ask my fellow Members, in particular, to support and adopt this bill, with a view to reducing the VAT on housing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-15-22	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within an eight-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee, yesterday, may not be far from reality if I say that you have had a constructive and thorough debate on matters of substance and substance with a very calm tone. Many questions were raised by my fellow Members, to which the Minister, Antal Rogán, who was present at the committee meeting, gave an absolutely acceptable answer to a very significant majority. This may also be seen from the support of the bill, as a very significant majority of the committee supported the bill. To be quite precise, everyone outside the socialists is in favour of reducing the VAT on new apartments. At least, only the socialists did not support it at the committee meeting. I see my fellow Member of the LMP shaking his head [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Neither do we.]] I don't know if you support it or not, because you didn't attend the committee meeting. [[Sándor Szabó: Doesn't that mean?]] Therefore, with the substantive questions that the Minister has given clear and clear answers to each of them at the committee meeting, I would not comment on them. On the other hand, I would like to mention two things, a hypocritical attitude and a case that we simply do not understand. I'd like to start with this. We do not understand why the socialists are hurting if people can get an apartment by the way. We do not understand why the socialists are doing everything they can from opposition to make it possible to make it difficult for people to access housing. [[Sándor Szabó: Talk about yourselves, not the socialists. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We didn't say that, you know that! The president's ringing the bell.]] We do not understand why the socialists are unable to support a proposal, which is obviously good for people, because they can get a new home cheaper. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who are you talking about?]] Good for the economy because it increases economic growth and is good for families because it clearly creates jobs. We could also say or think that this comes from nothing other than a misconceived opposition role that is not unknown to the socialists: we oppose everything that comes from the government, even if it is good for everyone else. But I think that's not what this is about, and that's why it's worth talking about. [[Sándor Szabó: Don't worry about us!]] The fact is, this is not a misplaced vote on the opposition side. You could say that if it didn't have a history, but we can all remember what they did after 2002. In 2002, the Prime Minister's candidate repeatedly promised to continue and even improve home-building support. Compared to this, the possibility of a tax credit for housing subsidies was abolished on the first stage and the whole aid was abolished on the next step. And all they did was chase people into debt traps, start a foreign exchange loan, and then send people to take out foreign exchange loans to the banks. This decision, the decision that the socialists do not like to support people in order to get a new apartment, has the result still to this day. This would have been an opportunity, there would have been an opportunity to correct their previous mistake, even if they didn't make it right, but at least they could correct it. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable for us that they still oppose such a proposal. As far as hypocrisy is concerned, there is, of course, an amendment from the opposition, from the left side, that we should not make a flat-rate reduction which they have never otherwise supported, but another VAT reduction. [[Sándor Burány: Specifically?!]] In particular, the Socialist Party [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The basic foods... the president is ringing the bell.]] The Socialist Party, which has raised the VAT three times under its governance, does not yet want to contribute to reducing the VAT on housing, but is proposing another VAT reduction proposal to Parliament. [[9.10]] Now it's enough to say that if the socialists are talking about VAT cuts, people are getting sick because they know it's a lie. If someone's lying about this, it's obvious that they're the socialists. They were the ones who committed the worst electoral filth of 25 years in 2006, because they not only promised something that they knew they would not comply with, but also adopted a law, reduced VAT by law, and destroyed this law within a month after the elections, the VAT was raised once, twice and three times. From now on, I think everything the socialists are saying in the matter of VAT reductions is absolutely unbelievable. I ask them and all my fellow Members to support this proposal, to support this package of laws, because it is good for people, because they will be able to make homes cheaper, it is good for the economy, because it is likely that it will help economic growth and it is good for families because it will create jobs. And don't listen to the socialists. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, who will present the minority opinion in the committee in a seven-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is fortunate that I have ten years of Members' routine, because I would not be able to speak right now after Mr Balla's speech if I had fewer routines, because his speech looked like it wasn't sitting at a committee meeting, even though I remember that we were sitting in seats right next to each other. Because the arguments you wish to put into our mouths have not been made, they have simply not been discussed, there was no such thing at the committee meeting, no one has said that, which is certainly not. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, while we are at VAT, and Congressman Balla said how high we raised it: in your view, it was not even high enough, because you raised the VAT rate from 25 percent to 27 percent, so you probably found the VAT rate introduced by the socialists to be too low, so you raised it to 27 percent. So much for who is credible and who is not with regard to VAT reductions. What we have proposed, ladies and gentlemen, is... - and that is why I am making a minority opinion on the committee meeting, and I would like to say this again to Mr Balla, because, although we are in favour of reducing VAT, we are in favour of reducing VAT in any area. Congressman Balla, you understand now, don't you? I can't be more clear: we are therefore in favour of VAT reduction. The problem, Congressman, is that there is much else in this bill. But with regard to VAT reductions: we have said so much, and our amending proposal, which has now been tabled by my fellow Member, Haughty, many times, I do not know how many of these legislative proposals have been tabled on this subject, is about reducing the VAT on basic foods - the VAT on basic foods! I am sure that economic growth will benefit if the VAT reduction that you are proposing is implemented, but I think there is no doubt that the best way to make people's lives, when we are talking about VAT cuts, is to make it easier for everyone, by reducing the VAT on basic foods. I think that maybe there's no debate between us, and once that's done, then there's something else to talk about. However, as I said, honourable Member Balla, this proposal is not just about reducing VAT. You do and do, at least you do, because Minister Rogán has at least spoken about it, of course, I think, not highlighting the truth about what else this law is about. Unfortunately, this is also about the capital and the financing of the BKV, for example, and it tells the transport company, when the Mayor asks the government for help, that the government does not provide it with virtually a penny of budget support, but says that it should solve your own revenue and practically label the part of the business tax that concerns the financing of the BKV and says that the capital cannot spend it on anyone else. Is that your help, Congressman Balla? Tell me, please. That's what they do to help the capital's lives, that the revenue that would otherwise be passed on to the municipality as its own revenue in the form of a business tax is basically tagged by you and you're telling me that it's the only thing that can be spent on? And what about all the other areas that this money will not be spent on? What you are talking about, and what the Minister has also pointed out, is that you are transferring two 1.5 per cent of the district to the capital - yes, if I count it well, but correct me, Minister, if I am wrong - about 6 billion forints, and if I am aware of that, the BKV will be financed at 40 billion per year or perhaps even a little more. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that 6 billion is a tiny fraction of what it costs to finance. I understand, Minister, that this is what the mayor asked - not 1.5 per cent, but 2 per cent, if you can even find this arithmetical mean of what you have been talking about - but he also asked that the government help him with the rest; you are so elegantly silent about this. And the government will not provide help, but will say that the capital will solve all the rest of its incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a hypocritical solution and a solution that is not in the interest of the Budapest people, which, I think, cannot be supported, and if you are presenting it under a law with a VAT reduction, then obviously, if we abstain from voting on the bill in the Legislative Committee, it is not about VAT reduction, but about this capital solution in the first place. It also tells a lot of other things that came up at the Legislative Committee, such as what I have highlighted: for example, you are introducing new electronic administration methods without otherwise creating the circumstances, introducing such new methods, so that everyone can anticipate that the system cannot prepare for the date of entry into force. That is why many people are not getting paid now in the public sector, and that is why it is necessary to postpone for the third time the entry into force that is now provided for in the law; the electronic administration, if anyone does not know exactly what I am talking about, is also included in this law. And this method of legislation, which is about you making up a story, you don't consult with anyone, you don't prepare impact assessments, you don't assess the results, let's say the early entry into force of this, I don't think it's acceptable. I don't think it's acceptable for us to postpone the entry into force for the third time, even if they do it in such an uneven way that whoever wants to do it will do it, whoever wants it, will do it anyway. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us not pretend that this bill is just about reducing VAT, because this proposal is about a lot of other things, which is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-15-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said in the expozee and in the speeches, it is perhaps possible to put the bill before us from an economic policy point of view that we are faced with one of the most important economic history decisions of this decade. This is all about the fact that the government intends to introduce one of Europe's lowest new housing tax with this measure, which we hope not only represents one of the lowest VAT rates, but also significantly expands this discount to a wide range, and, with other amendments, also makes changes in the construction law that accelerates, improves the willingness to build a house and improves the mood as planned. [[9.20]] It might even be possible to quote Marai what this bill is finally about, but perhaps there are more practical reasons for adopting this bill. Three of these reasons and three reasons why the Fidesz faction certainly supports the proposal: one is the maintenance of economic growth, the contribution to it through the VAT reduction; the other is the expansion of employment; and the third is the improvement of the housing situation of Hungarian families, Hungarian youth, and the assistance of the conditions for the founding of a family. But perhaps we should go through these reasons in a little bit more detail. We can see that Hungary's economic catch-up started after 2010. In recent years Hungary has been able to produce 3 percent or more economic growth, which has brought Hungarian development to the forefront of Europe in terms of growth compared to its previous situation. He also did so, quite rightly, so that economic stability and competitiveness could also increase in Hungary. Of course, as has been said earlier, the many important measures that have taken place in Hungary over the past four to five years were necessary, but it is not necessarily enough to maintain economic growth at such a high level. If we take European catch-up seriously and are serious about it, then indeed, in the years ahead, the country must produce economic growth of about 3 or 3 percent with a low deficit and a steady state. This growth can be achieved by involving economic sectors that have significant added value in the engine of growth. Allow me, fellow Members, to say that in this way we are in the lucky position in the second cycle of the post-2010 period that there are completely different goals and challenges for the Hungarian economy, and it is good that we have to talk about how this does not increase Hungarian growth, but how it maintains Hungarian growth. And it could also be recalled here that, after 2010, we had to talk about how we would be able to repay the IMF's loans and how we would be able to get out of the over-deficit procedure in relation to the previous legacy. Fortunately, we were then able to cope with the challenges that underpinned the economic growth that we are talking about maintaining. And how can we see that this helps the Hungarian economy to grow? According to preliminary calculations, this new measure could generate a new investment of up to HUF 100-120 billion annually in Hungary. This could increase annual GDP by up to 0.2-0.3 percent annually, which, I think, is necessary to maintain the pace of Hungarian economic growth. The other important area, in which we expect very, very positive changes from the measure, is essentially an increase in employment. It is clear that such a measure will significantly increase the performance of the construction sector and we are well aware that the construction sector is one of the most labour-intensive sectors, so that every percentage of growth that occurs in the construction sector can create hundreds and thousands of jobs. Moreover, according to current calculations, this VAT reduction, taking into account European examples, could represent up to 5 to 7 thousand new jobs per year in the sector. And why is the role of construction important in this regard? It may be possible to refer to Parliament when it comes to such economic policy issues, that, in principle, the large economic textbooks, if you can say so, know three sectors that are able to involve people at a lower level of education or vocational training in the labour market. By the way, such is agriculture, such as trade and tourism, but the third largest such area is the construction sector, which is able to move a significant number of public workers to the labour market, whether previously inactive or in the light of Hungarian relations. And as such, I think that this measure may have a serious social impact, as it is likely that some of the newly created jobs in Hungary will come from the low-skilled, but it is not excluded that some of these jobs can be achieved by bringing home professionals who have migrated abroad, otherwise working in the construction sector. The third important area, which is why we certainly support the proposal, is basically - perhaps this should have started with this, but this is less economic policy considerations - so that Hungarian families can access the apartment as cheaply and as quickly as possible, the easier it is for a young couple or a Hungarian couple who want to start a family to have an apartment. It is quite easy to calculate that, with the current VAT reduction, the price of new apartments will fall by about 20 percent, but it is also possible that, due to the high demand, young people will be able to obtain new apartments even more cheaply. According to current calculations, this represents about 5,000 newly built homes per year. This provides a home for 5,000 families. Otherwise, it is very important to say on the proposal that we hope - because many details will still be before the government - that this can continue. Based on the first experience, it is also necessary to examine other areas that can be involved. It is a very important part of this proposal to bring about a breakthrough in Hungary in the area of cutting down various public administrations. Anyone who has already built in Hungary knows that it is neither easy nor cheap to get all the permits and all the papers to build a new house. Here, in essence, the government cuts a Gordian knot by making house building essentially mandatory under a certain square metre. This will not, in our hope, mean that houses are built uncontrolled, as it places responsibility on the designers if the designers have to take responsibility for the proper construction of the house, but it will certainly save very, very much time and money for those who want to make use of the possibility of building the new house. Overall, with regard to the VAT reduction, I can say that it is a very brave step, one of the most dynamic housing subsidies in Europe is being implemented by the government through the VAT reduction. It is not impossible here that we will also have to fight our battles with Brussels, because, as has been said in the Expoze, there is also a need for certain approval of Brussels, to include it in the Brussels framework, and to do so we intend to give the government all the support from the Fidesz fraction. [[9.30]] Perhaps it would be another area that I would like to touch on from the package of laws submitted, by the way. I mean, as a capitalist, as a Budapester, XVI. as a district, public transport in the capital is one of the most decisive not only for my constituents, but also for all Budapesters, I think. We trust, by the way, that, as has been said here, a little bit of a dead-end trial over the last six months, which is a source of support for public transport in Budapest between the metropolitan districts and the capital city in connection with the sharing of resources. Here, too, the bill seeks to reach a compromise solution. I also consulted with the mayors yesterday on whether this proposal was acceptable to them. I have been told that, although it affects the budget of all districts, of course, this is twice 1.5 percent, but for the BÖSZ, the Association of Budapest Local Governments, this may be a compromise proposal that, if the capital takes the necessary measures for its part, the districts undertake this contribution for the sustainable financing of public transport in the capital. So we hope that a good compromise can be reached. Here, perhaps, the question that has been raised in previous negotiations remains open. We are well aware that public transport in the capital affects not only the capital, but also the agglomerations, and the contribution of the agglomeration settlements remains open on this issue. I hope that this has also come to a standstill here during the negotiations of the coming days, which can also lead to a fair solution. Overall, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I can say that the proposal that we have just tabled will certainly receive full support from the Fidesz faction in order to maintain the growth of the Hungarian economy and to facilitate the cheapest and faster housing of Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-15-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We could get used to Fidesz beating a bill through Parliament in one day, because most of the time, in a few days, we find out what the real reason and intention of the bill is behind the soundy passwords. Here too, we must live with the suspicion lawsuit, despite the fact that it is not immediately clear today who will benefit from this bill. Because, as my opposition colleague has already said here in the previous minutes, this bill was not only about what the leader promised at the convention to reduce VAT, but also about a wide range of areas, but also about the film industry in addition to the capital's resource sharing. I was waiting for an explanation from the expo and from the mouth of the lead speaker of Fidesz to explain why this is so important here and now, but in the absence of this, we have to rely on speculation. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the most important question mark in the immediate context of reducing the VAT on construction is why this is only done for four years. If this is so important to you, if the construction sector is such a strategic sector, if it is only through it that job creation can be achieved, if the best way to support families is to reduce the price of new-built homes, then why do you want to do this for only four years? What is the reason why this bill was originally presented with four happy years of construction between 2016 and 2019 when, instead of the brutally high, world-class 27 percent VAT, only 5 percent VAT will charge the price of new-built apartments, why is it only for four years? If construction is so important to us, if we consider it so important to create jobs through the construction sector, if we believe that the most important condition leading to the happiness of families is to have a new apartment that they can buy, then why is this important only for the next four years? Why isn't this important to Fidesz after 1 January 2020? That's the first question. We have not heard any explanation for the temporary introduction of this provision for four years. We have not heard any explanation for this. By the way, we thought that they were already well fed, because the news is full of people who bought, bought, and lived among the members of the government. We thought everyone already had a ten-year-old kid in the government. Still, someone's behind, and you need to help him for the next four years with a little price reduction to get a new apartment? Or did the failure fall into their heads so much that it was not built in Hungary by a renowned car manufacturer, but in Slovakia, that instead of making cars, they turned to the construction industry? Or did Lőrinc Mészáros get the idea that he's going to try his luck in construction over the next few years? Or did the Prime Minister's son-in-law tell the father-in-law that now that we've had the filament business and the information technology doesn't seem to pay enough, he'd try his luck in construction for four years, and then the next business? So you can stand on our feet even more? It really doesn't make any sense. If there is also a grain of truth in what you have just said, why is this important for the industry as a whole, that one sector is being given such a great help, if it is really important to expand jobs through this sector, if you really believe that this is one of the most important guarantees of helping Hungarian families, then why do you think that this is important in the country for only four years? It just doesn't make any sense. The other argument, which makes us think that this is a wrong direction, is that if we look at what is the first of the social problems in Hungary, we do not find that the crisis in the construction sector is a crisis. That's not what we find between the first and the most important problems. Among the most important problems, we find such as the increase in workers' poverty, the tax system, which consists of more and more complex taxes, bureaucracy in general and such. Because if they really want to help people thrive, why not restore, for example, the minimum wage tax exemption, as inherited from socialist governments? It just seemed to sting their eyes, and they taxed 16 percent on wages that had not previously borne the burden of personal income tax. Why don't you start here? Do you not read the statistics that workers' poverty and the increase in poverty in general have become one of the most important social problems since 2010? Do you think that if this is one of the most important problems in Hungary, then instead of reducing this, the VAT on construction, the VAT on new-built apartments, should be reduced? Is this the most important problem in Hungary? Several times and not only we Socialists, but other opposition parties also urged that yes, in a country where the VAT rate is so intolerable, 27 percent, where, in your own admission, hunger and poverty are a daily problem, why not reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5 percent? Several countries have moved in this direction in the region. The latest country on this path is Romania, where VAT on food products has been reduced. Hungary is not on this path, for some reason Hungary sees the pledge of ascension in the construction sector, at least for the next four years. This is not what you've seen your pledge in the last five years, and this is not what you see your pledge in after 2020, when the whole thing that you're putting forward is destroyed by a pen stroke, as is the case in this law. And as they may drastically decrease - this is not a fact yet, but they may decrease - the prices of new-built apartments will rise dramatically as of January 1, 2020 - this is already apparent because you have encoded this into the bill. But all the other question marks come from the fact that once this was promised and considered so important, why do they still deal with everything else in this bill? What was it you didn't know three weeks ago, and now you have to push it through Parliament in one day, through an exceptional procedure? Was the problem of funding the BKV not known? [[9.40]] Mr. Tarlós didn't mention this at the Fidesz convention, that suddenly they just remembered that the capital should be helped? Of course, but you do this in a special way, you help the capital, you give the money with a good heart, because you don't give it out of your own. It does not receive extra money from the government, but, on the one hand, requires the capital to spend its own money, to interfere with the decision-making mechanisms of independent municipalities, but on the other hand, it is even more serious: they are taking money from the districts to make more money for the capital. Of course they give it with a good heart, because they give the district money, and they don't give extra government support to the capital. In this bill, regardless of the construction sector, families or job creation, you are simply changing the system of so-called resource sharing, the sharing mechanism that benefits the capital and the districts that make up the capital from the tax revenues. It seems to be a small change of one and a half percentage points to reduce the money of district authorities - and with which the capital can manage more money - but, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in one of my constituencies, Kispesten, this means HUF 50 million minus next year. That's what they're taking from Kispest's municipality. This is one quarter of the amount that can be used for social assistance. You will take a quarter of the amount of social support from a district - not from one district, from all districts - to give it to the capital because you do not want your own extra resources from government reserves - obviously you need it for stadium constructions and other similar things - but you will take it from district money and give it to István Tarlós as a Christmas present. The local government of Kőbánya, with a budget of much higher than the municipality of Kipest, is obviously even worse than the other municipality of my constituency, since there is more money involved in its proportions. Ladies and Gentlemen, Back then, we hadn't even talked about what the film industry had to do with families, job creation and construction and so on. You have been obscenely silent about the fact that, by the way, the laws relating to the film industry are being amended here. I was waiting to find out why this has suddenly become a strategic sector, that, in a day's turn, as if enlighteningly, the Hungarian Parliament must get to know this problem and make a decision about it immediately. Honestly, I didn't hear one argument that would explain that. One wonders that Andy Vajna once again told a member of the government that something should be done, because there are not enough main roles for the woman or something, and we should support this activity a little bit and so on. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Don't get the wrong idea, tax cuts and increases in opportunities are good things, provided, of course, if they don't give them from someone else's, but they reduce the government's own income by doing so only in areas that are not one of the first five major problems of Hungarian social problems, and they are not one of the most important strategic sectors of the Hungarian economy, although construction is indeed an important sector. Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, it is quite simply amazing that you, in this bill, will tie the hands of the municipalities in a day's time, so in general, what they can use their revenue for. It's quite amazing that in a day's time, you'll have your own law factory pass a law here in Parliament that takes money from the districts and gives it to the capital with a boost. It is quite amazing that all of this is wrapped up as if it were just about the construction industry here and now, and even with the latter, it is quite amazing that they are not telling us that they are thinking of maintaining and operating this excellent system for only four years, and then you want to forget it the way it was. Dear House, These are the problems that make us think we're dealing with the usual tricks: Fidesz takes out one thing that can undoubtedly be resolved, and it solves it, like in a package, by pushing a bunch of things down the Parliament's throat that are quite simply unacceptable. It helps in an area by transferring money from other areas, putting these areas in an impossible position. Therefore, because of these criticisms, we cannot fully support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-15-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-31	Mr President, Dear House, Without exaggeration, there is a strategic proposal ahead of us, which is why I think it is a face toaster that the government will bring down a fair trial with BKV, film industry and the rape of municipal issues. It is quite simply for us here to talk about construction, home creation, the possibility of keeping Hungarian citizens and Hungarian youth at home, the creation of a climate so that the Hungarian people can live here and live in this country, do not migrate mass. And then you force the BKV and the film industry into this, making it virtually impossible to have an elegant debate where your elegance is lacking. After all, there is a question in which I think that all-party agreement and a multi-party consensus could be reached, and the government is making a public relations issue through the announcement of a year-end, in fact, a love package, which it will obviously stress on various media platforms in the coming weeks and months. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm saying that it's okay, because I can say in a picnic that at last Thursday's ministerial hearing, I was able to nail the Minister of National Economy to the question, request and demand that, come on, the 27 percent VAT on housing be reduced to 5 percent. A few days later, the same announcement was made, and in fact the result of a previous better decision proposal is now presented here in a fidesz robe. Obviously, Jobbik supports and clearly supports this principle, its orientation, its direction. What we are complaining about, in addition to forcing further questions, is that this solution is not at all complete. One of the pillars, one of the legs, seems to be settled. On the basis of previous announcements, it is well known that the market itself, i.e. construction contractors and businesses, in the case of a favourable VAT rate, would be able to reduce EU record VAT to 5 per cent in the area of housing construction, as stated in this draft, the market itself would be able to create 5 to 6 thousand new homes annually, and in essence this could now be achieved thanks to a government measure without you moving your little finger. And you should also see that while the market is now allowing certain types of movement, scope expansion, there was some pressure on your part, because Mihály Varga had an announcement, which was very sympathetic to me, that is to say, the VAT on housing construction needs to be reduced. The problem is that the government forgot to act after that. The market, on the other hand, took the message, waited for the VAT reduction, large investments froze, an economic sector dried up, so you trashed yourself and the Hungarian construction industry in a situation where most of the developments stopped, waiting for the VAT reduction. It is very fortunate that you have made this announcement, and we are very happy that you did not do so after a year or two, which is why it should not be ruined. We also see that while the VAT reduction allows market players to raise new real estate, let us see what you are doing. What does the Government of Hungary do? Let us look at the budget, the approved one, and see how many apartments have been built in Hungary in the last year. You want to know what we're getting at? Less than 300 apartments have been built in Hungary in the last year with a budgetary background. And don't hide with the local governments, because the municipalities that have already been bled up will play a much greater role in the construction of apartments. Compared to this, the Government of Hungary is unable to measure anything in this area, even within the statistical margin of error. It is now taking the right action, allowing market players to develop certain kinds of developments, but this alone may not be a great relief for a single Hungarian person. So they have a dog's duty to lift up the state leg that doesn't exist. After all, you yourself acknowledge that this VAT reduction, if only 3 thousand new properties are built as a result of this, will also benefit from your budgetary income expectations, as there are numerous positive economic impacts, various tax payments and contributions against VAT losses. So the thing is, in 2015, 8358 new apartments were built, which is a catastrophic, pathetic number compared to the fact that if 40-50 thousand were to be built, the entire housing stock could only be replaced every hundred years. [[9.50]] And let's say, in terms of my residence, Óbuda-Békásmegyer, let's think about what happens to a panel house in Békásmegyer in 100 years, or what happens in 400 years if we assume, based on this 8,000 fact number, that the real estate is only changed every 400 years? Because the number of newly built real estates per year during the Fidesz-KDNP administration would replace real estate in Hungary every 400 years. This is also nonsense for a simple family house. So it seems that something had to be done. What you have done now is a measure that gives air to the market, which generates additional budgetary resources for 3 thousand apartments, which can be considered relatively minimal. What's the Jobbik's problem with that? The fact that two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, we warned you of the need for such a move, and, let alone not doing anything, it was swept off, and they voted against the resolution proposal which aimed at the same thing that you are now doing. So what could be the reason why you've been hovering over this issue for five years? For five years these positive economic effects were kept away from the Hungarian economy, and now, when they had to find some end-of-year PR element in their reality show, they suddenly found this otherwise very right move. What we don't understand is what they've been doing in this area for five years? Why was it not important to keep young Hungarians at home for five years? Why was it not important that, where appropriate, the supply side finally widened a little in this area? We also see that, while the market is able to build at least 5 to 6,000 new-built properties in addition to such a VAT reduction, a very unhealthy, unbalanced state can be eliminated - with an ugly Hungarian inability - because so far, due to the huge VAT rate, real estates have actually been developed there, and it was worth it to build new-built apartments where the price was above 300 thousand forints. So here we can think of the inner districts of Budapest, the downtown parts of rural metropolises or the streets of Váci, but let's say not the outer edges of the rural metropolitan areas, not the villages and small settlements at all. If this VAT reduction were now full-scale and, where appropriate, it could encourage, say, the increase in the number of rural family houses and ports and, where appropriate, the introduction of new ones into Hungarian life, then it could be complete, but not complete, what you have submitted is missing from the package. The price limit of 350-400,000 forints in the capital still appears to exist, where price reductions are not expected even in the external districts of Budapest on the basis of professional expectations, but rather the expansion of supply in the long term. We usually get a two-year market expectation in the analyses, when the market calms down, and you can see what expanding the supply side means. But this is important, let us not discuss this, because it is quite clear that, let's say, in the case of low rent prices in Budapest, the solution is not a simple, timber-based price regulation, but the fact that the supply side has to be fixed. And we also see that you are quite simply ignoring very serious social phenomena that we have discussed here in Parliament, and we have drawn your attention to it. Let me give you an example: hundreds of thousands of properties stand empty in Hungary today. What would it have cost you to put in a comprehensive bill for housing, housing and construction to assess this hundreds of thousands of vacant properties? Market estimates are also available, not yours. It is a shame, a shame, that it is not important for the Government of Hungary to see how much property that is empty in Hungary can be used in a situation where supply is scarce, Hungarian youth cannot get home, hundreds of thousands of people migrate abroad. It is not important for you to have a real hidden resource, hundreds of thousands of vacant properties. We know that market estimates suggest that the number of people whose condition has already deteriorated so much that even the increase of new ones would be cheaper than their renovation. However, it should be assessed how many of these real estate holdings are owned by the state, how many municipalities and what belongs to the private property sector. We should assess how much of these could be brought back to Hungarian life. And yes, Jobbik misses a state-based home-building and rental-building program that focuses not only on the market sphere; it also focuses on the possibility that Hungarian people can start their lives on the basis of a lease. About printed rents, a state-based construction system, central acquisition of materials, qualified Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian construction works, because if you want to boost employment, you can do so; and by bringing Hungarian suppliers back to the life of the national economy with long-term contracts. So it would be true that a newly built apartment would create four jobs in the longer term. If we are talking only about VAT cuts - and this , just be quoted here, because this is a serious step in my eyes - then it is not true that these four new jobs per apartment are the same. It is no coincidence that you expect to create 5 to 7 thousand new jobs according to this model, while at least 3 to 5 to 6 thousand new buildings can enter, market estimates suggesting that up to 5 to 6 thousand will be available next year. But we also need to see that employment cannot be substantially changed simply by reducing VAT, we need to put the state foot next to it, we need to assess vacant real estate assets. How can it happen that the reduction of your VAT which is intended to be comprehensive, I would like to emphasise once again that it does not have incentives for rural ports: In the end, the renovation activity is completely neglected, and we can see the establishment of a system where you favour the upper middle class, the beneficiaries of a single-key tax are once again placed in a position to favour certain large entrepreneurs - is it not familiar with the Fidesz legislation of recent years? And again, they do not favor the gestures of those who may live in a poorer line, and precisely the target group that cannot start an apartment without a single home, so they will migrate abroad. So they miss exactly the target group that should be most helpful. That's why we're saying we're not against it. VAT cuts are good, we support VAT reductions, but we also claim that this package could be fully implemented, and we simply do not understand the isolation that you have. We don't understand that you're making the same almost entirely in the form of a better decision proposal, you reject it, then you bring it in your own robe, it's fine. And we will vote for this because we can overcome our party political interests, but in the interests of Hungarian citizens and voters, we would expect them to assess the vacant stock of real estate. That's not how the budget would go down, how we'd finally know about our real hidden resources. We would like this to be extended to the entire range of renovation activities, since, let us think, a lifelike example: it is not necessarily the construction of homes moving near the 300 sq m or 150 sq m border; it is a certain social class, which is beneficial for a lucky social class. Let us not discuss this, let us not envy them, but let us help those who are most in need. Where appropriate, an extension of an average-sized rural port may arise, where two young people, let us say, can try to live together, are given by God to be able to even have a child in that environment. And in such a case, both in terms of renovations and in terms of material acquisition, they should be subject to a discount, which is not a 27 percent penalty tax. And not only for the construction of new real estate, and there too, narrowing it down, extend it to a certain section, but also for all Hungarian people to have this discount in full. And once again, we see that these shortcomings are simply still making this package eligible, only the government is unable to come up with an elegant idea that it puts down, discusses with professional organisations that are much better than you and we are better at this area, because it is what they do in full-time. And if appropriate, by adopting better, positive proposals, you would now be able to achieve a full consensus in this area. Believe me, from the PR point of view that you consider exclusively important, it would also be more beneficial if you could present to the public with a package on the basis of a summation, by putting thousands and tens of thousands of Hungarian young people, middle-aged Hungarians and older Hungarians in a position. Compared to this, we can find a narrowed-down package that only benefits certain actors, certain spheres. That is why we call on you to definitely extend the range of preferences to everyone. The budgetary impact would continue to be absolutely positive within a budget cycle; they would be measurablely positive within a government cycle. We are therefore simply not understanding the fact that they are not willing to negotiate meaningfully on our improving proposals. If you have put in your own robe the idea of opposition that you have just brought in here, have the elegance to discuss its details and dare to discuss the long-term effects of national strategy by which you could slow down emigration, by which you could facilitate the adoption of a child, so that Hungary's most serious problem, tragic population loss, can turn back and finally grow. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Before you begin, Congresswoman, we will no longer see each other this year. I wish you a nice and pleasant time. Once again, a blessed holiday and a very happy new year! [[Intercoms: Thank you very much!]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[10.00]]
u2015-12-15-33	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We opposition representatives need to learn more and more that when the government presents something popular to the Parliament, all the letters of the proposal need to be carefully reviewed, since they usually smuggle in some measures that put the economic hinterland in place or simply want to hide it. This is no different in the case of bill 8196, the title of which is already a scam, because most of the articles contain changes in the film industry that have little to do with economic growth, the more Andy Vajna's interests are strengthened. The bill submitted is therefore a salad law. They're trying to trick me again in a day. Now that the Quaestor case has failed the government's practice of lawmaking, which indicates that there is no rush, without agreement, to make a good law, yet they present another package as a matter of urgency. This kind of irresponsible legislation seems to have grown to their hearts, they can't work decently and thoroughly. Changing VAT to enter into force in two weeks is simply amazing! It shows that you have no idea about the operation of the economy, or that you want to fish in confusion again, and that surprise changes are being skimmed by some. We find it unacceptable that, while the government has already decided on this, hopefully even background calculations have been made, but you have waited for the Fidesz Congress to announce the measure itself, and then pushed it through Parliament in 24 hours. By doing so, they acknowledged that they view Parliament as merely a theatre, and in your values, a Fidesz Congress is a much more important forum than the National Assembly elected by citizens. In addition, this hastens the effectiveness of the whole measure, since market participants have no chance of preparing for the new system in time and, for example, to lay down plans for next year in light of this. The most important step in the legislative package is to reduce the VAT on housing. Such a step could, in principle, be an eligible instrument, because it stimulates construction, creates jobs in an important segment, expands supply in an area where it is critically low, which has led, on the one hand, to the deterioration of housing conditions and, on the other hand, to an increase in rental prices, and thus to the deterioration of the situation of many families in the last year. At the same time, the most important thing in this area is not to reduce the VAT on newly built apartments, which should not be the first step. On the one hand, it would be more important to support renovations with either central resources or by reducing the VAT on renovation activities, because renovations, especially energy efficiency renovations, can increase comfort a lot faster, improve housing conditions and reduce overhead costs than new constructions. During that time, more people could be in a better position than with new constructions, while the side effects, construction and back-up industry are the same. But the government, more specifically, John Lazarus, took even the 150 billion that were earmarked for this purpose, so that he could give it to those close to Fidesz. On the other hand, it would also be more important to build or develop public or municipal tenements from the existing stock. The VAT reduction only partially supports this because the renovation of the existing stock is not considered, and capital resources will not increase for such an investment, although the end account will be less than 20 percent. Our further problem is that the reduction in VAT will not primarily benefit those who are most vulnerable to the housing crisis, which is undoubtedly existing and worsening. In our view, this would require a much more targeted form of support, as there is a risk that most of the budget money spent on this will land on construction companies and the more prosperous ones. And that danger is not small. We have been able to learn about the practice of passing on in general, but it can also work and work vice versa. It is also an important and backward step to tighten construction standards, to ensure that newly built apartments are not only new, but also modern and low-cost. We cannot start saving resources tomorrow, because there are already few of them today. But the reason why this proposal is not acceptable is that it does not apply to private strong constructions, i.e. we support larger companies and more wealthy customers by reducing their VAT, but if someone would only help themselves, I did not - I underlined that. This will be particularly a problem in rural areas, where there is no demand for the construction of row houses or block houses, or for someone to entrust a company with the construction of a complete house. Thus, this measure will only increase the gap between the countryside and the city. There is a part of the bill that is unacceptable for other reasons. Article 3 According to the text of Section 3, new constructions of 300 square meters are excluded from the local construction regulations, only a few basic regulations must be complied with. This is nonsense, unacceptable, as it means the deprivation of the fundamental right of local communities to determine what and what building can be built in their settlement. On this basis, all local safety, heritage, health, urban or environmental standards may be disregarded. We believe that this regulation is an assassination, so it is in no way acceptable to any responsible Member of Parliament, whatever party position it may be. In conclusion, it is perhaps a first step that the government now recognises the existence of a housing crisis and the problems of the construction sector, but tries to tackle it with a wrong solution, while it has smuggled a number of unacceptable and, in many cases, non-existent measures into the salad law, all of which are intended to be passed over the Parliament in 24 hours for reasons of communication. We find that unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-15-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome. We will continue our work, which we would like to continue with two-minute comments, but we do not have a candidate for this, so we will have further speeches from our representatives. This is possible at the expense of the remaining timeframe. The meeting room table may monitor how much time each fraction has. First up, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, It's always a great pleasure for us to have the government try to do something we've come up with, our idea. Of course, we often experience that in a slightly distorted form, but if it is a step forward on the subject, we are certainly pleased about that. We ask the government to continue to implement our ideas, and while we are at VAT, to extend the VAT of 5% to the basic food and to the tools needed to raise children, because these are the steps that would really help to raise children, to change the population situation. The other very important issue is that this issue must be dealt with on at least two gauges. The other track, which my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, has already mentioned, is the construction of the rent-apartment programme. We know very well that this does not really work in Hungary today, and we also see that for many families - we can even talk about worker poverty - this is the only way to start a life or to start a broken life for some reason. Governments often like to rely on foreign examples, to take foreign examples into account, but if we have a system that has already worked in Hungary in the thirties, then we would have nothing but to adapt this system to today's times. I am talking about the ONCSA system, the National Fund for People's and Family Protection, which flourished in the thirties, and part of it was the construction of a rental program. I could talk about this for a long time, but right now, I'd just like to give it a big picture. The point was that they had a flat at a reduced price, and there were conditions for keeping the apartment and moving on. [[10.10]] It was one of the conditions - the most important condition, I might say - for regular and disciplined work, for going to work, and if someone has complied with these basic standards, he has complied with the conditions, after a certain year, including the rent until then, he could buy this property. So he could continue to extend his family's life not only in a rental but also in his own apartment, more easily with children, young people began their lives more easily, started to start a family more easily, and thus helped Hungary flourish at that time. So I would like to ask the government to look at this on a number of gauges, even by taking into account old examples in Hungary, to develop the normal working and not the current rental program, or to extend the VAT reduction to the basic food and the tools for raising children. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-36	Thank you very much. Congressman János Harghitai, KDNP.
u2015-12-15-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The backbone of the bill to the salad law before us is the legislative changes and legislative changes that are linked to the reduction of the VAT on housing, and in this context some construction requirements are amended. I would first like to talk about the importance of reducing VAT. The government, when it comes to us with a draft legislation, I think that it is always consistent with the social policy it defined at the beginning of the government cycle. In this, the family policy of the Orbán government is always a very high priority, and perhaps this is the central issue of our social policy, the multifaceted support of families and in as many ways as possible. At a time when we are talking about a VAT reduction, I am thinking of this social policy guiding line, we want to support families. This is no question that in Hungary there is a traditional and tradition that we like to live in our own properties, which can be highlighted because this is not necessarily so natural in the happier part of Europe, where societies are more mobile, where more people live in apartments. But if we ask ten out of ten people in Hungary whether they want to live in a rental or own property, they will definitely prefer this latter. So, my fellow Members, who have spoken before me and said that we should say that more people who have left Hungary should come back and present such concepts to the Parliament, I can say that this is also a way for us to win young people who want to leave again to the country, because they can get real estate in Hungary at reasonable cost, while, say, in Western Europe, where they work temporarily using their knowledge, they have much less chance of doing so. Why does the VAT reduction focus on construction? I think that the government has made a perfectly logical and well-chosen choice and did so without rush, so the Members of Parliament are obviously not only monitoring the activities of Parliament but also the activities of the government. The press has reported on several occasions that the government has dealt with this issue several times, and I think it was the right decision when it decided to bring this problem before us this year and to move forward with the amendment of the VAT law. It will not come to anyone as a trauma, I say this to the representative woman, even if this law comes into force in January, because it is positive for everyone, less VAT, who will become customers on the market, will have savings and we have a right to calculate that companies who build apartments and who will have more income will dynamic the economy. So we believe that in addition to serving our family policy goals, we also had to choose a tool that also serves economic policy goals. 2014 is a closed period in our lives, where we already have a closing account, that year, in 2014, there was 3.7 percent economic growth. I think this was the third best growth indicator in Europe, and we were the first in Central and Eastern Europe. Obviously, we'd like to stay here, it's very difficult to stay here, but it would be nice to stay here. Therefore, in addition to pursuing its social policy objectives, the government is looking for economic policy instruments and steps that serve both at the same time, and I think that encouraging housing is such a goal. If more housing is built, more jobs will be created, more jobs will become income for the government, employees and employees will pay personal income tax to the budget, they will have income, and I do not have to justify this for a long time. We think it is a tool that best serves the growth of the economy. So this line of steps, as I mentioned, while also serving our social policy goals, I am thinking of family support, also serves the growth goals of the economy at the same time. I think it is a bold move to reduce VAT from 27 to 5 percent, and we have knowledge that where we have already had this VAT rate of 5 percent, let's say, in Poland, there is the majority of apartments in Eastern Central Europe. The least we have built so far, we must change this trend, and we rightly hope that we can move towards, say, Polish figures. We have heard from Mihály Varga in the last few days about the fact that if three thousand apartments were to be built more a year, this step would bring about a budget reduction. So I think that you will achieve the government's goal of helping families without reducing their budget revenue, because both are both important goals at the same time. Obviously, in addition to reducing VAT, because it is our hope that more housing will be built, the government considered it justified to change the construction regulations as well. We have just talked about cutting red tape, and we have also passed several laws here in Parliament. I know and you know that a comprehensive reform of the administrative procedural law is also being made. In that bill, efforts will be made, one of which is already coming back here. Hungary is traditionally a very bureaucratic administration, a very bureaucratic administration, and this needs to be changed. It takes courage, and I think that this change will bring its fruit. In Hungary, there has not been much of an example of administration deciding with its silence, because that is what it is doing here. If someone wants to build a family house of less than 300 square meters, they'll just announce it to the construction authority, and the construction authority will take note of it. This does not mean that the authority is not instrumental, because the authority's control options remain unchanged and will obviously also verify whether the construction authority of the Government Office is in compliance with the legislation. But the important person who has dealt with such issues on the administration side is well aware that this is a difficult, bureaucratic system, especially when designers had to produce the whole process electronically for the proper units of the government office. It is good that we have resolved this system, and it is good that we have the courage to say that we can take note of it. I'm also not afraid that when the collective will of the local community lays down rules on building regulations, this procedure would be impaired. The possibilities of the administrative authorities are being reduced, but anyway, I think that in every way we should limit them to these general procedures, because they make procedures unduly bureaucratic, and I hope that when the Ket. We have - I am talking about the administrative procedural law - the Ket. It will also represent this concept. So I am not concerned about the collective will of the local community, I approve of these red tape reduction and rationalisation measures. Perhaps we should mention another proposed law, a business tax issue. As a man of the capital, I also consider it important, as a countryman, to have a polemic that I watch through the press when I listen to the speeches of Mayor Tarlos. I am glad that he has achieved his goal and that the capital will have additional resources for the operation of public transport, which is obviously important in this big city. As a countryman, what I don't understand is why this town works as 23 or 24 cities when it's actually just a city. When the members of the district or the representatives of the districts here resented the fact that this cost the district x I do not know how much money it costs, it is likely that citizens living in their district, when taking the tram or the subway, are not thinking about who would finance these costs, but want a good public transport. [[10.20]] So I think that this is a reasonable compromise, acceptable to the districts, and that this one-and-a-half-percent transfer to the capital will obviously help. To partially bind the hands of local governments, to what they can use industrial tax revenues, I do not think this is tragic. The law says, in particular, in these areas. This means that attention should be paid to these areas. In the case of the capital city, this is transport, in the case of municipal authorities, this is social expenditure. In other cases, opposition representatives usually speak out to ensure social expenditure, and we now use a legislative act to force it in this respect. It is also completely rational for the government to put a brake on the use of business tax into this, and basically it says that when you local governments make wage payments, the world can't run away with you. Thus, the business tax is not used by the municipalities to finance wage payments in a decisive way, but, as the law now states, primarily social expenditure, other expenses, and transport expenditure for the capital. I think that this is the thinking of the law before us, with it in these two areas, and since, as I put it, our socio-political objectives are supported by this draft law, and I hope that it will also help our economic policy goals, so the KDNP faction has welcomed and will support the draft law that is coming before us. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-15-38	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Gógös, MSZP.
u2015-12-15-39	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been much talk about VAT cuts today, which is one of the most important elements of this bill. Perhaps a case or additive that would further strengthen the amendment that we have tabled has not been mentioned. This is the food safety risks in Hungary. Once again in the morning, one of the main arguments was that in the same place where some anthrax was fed, perhaps a year and a half ago, the same entrepreneur where it was sold was now found again. This is interesting because of two things. One of them is that these new-made goldfished farmers are obviously not qualified for this profession. This is quite obvious, because there hasn't been such a problem anywhere else in Hungary in decades. The other thing is that we don't know where these animals come from, because in connection with the hortobágy investigations, we've found again a stock with ear numbers, interesting for a big winner whose staff had the ear number in a company that hasn't existed for three years. These are very dangerous things, and this is only related to the VAT case, because if companies operating in official systems face such competition, they are surely doomed to death, and it is certain that the VAT that has been cheated for a huge profit will also affect this. For this reason, it would be very, very important to consider a reduction in the food sector that affects the highest consumption. I was just before the Economic Committee with our amendment proposal, which sets this out in detail, but we also tabled the same amendment to this bill. I suggest that it should be taken into account that VAT reductions should be continued, in particular, in the case of substitution or substitution products. I said this yesterday to the Minister: I do not think that there is a country in the world where poultrymeat and pigmeat have different VATs. That's just amazing. They don't do that because it shifts consumption to one of them, because it goes into a significantly better price position, which I don't think is right. So at least that much should have been done, and it's still not too late for me, because a thousand tricks can be used to at least replace this one item. It's about 6-7 billion forints loss, by the way, in the short term and in the long term, I don't think it's anything. Besides, I would definitely be a swordsman, and it might be worth considering before Christmas, but if we fail now, after the big consumption period is now going down, there may still be time for this until Easter, but we should not stop this process. The other thing is that we do not fully understand it, and I think that the Minister will give an accurate and clear answer in the closing words, and yesterday at the TAB meeting he said that not only will this VAT reduction be true - and here I would respond to Erzsie's comment - so yesterday it was said that it would be possible to recover it from the bill collected at the private construction site up to HUF 5 million. This means that in a house of approximately 30 million people, the entire VAT can be reclaimed. That would be a very positive part of it, and I would even say that would be the really positive part. There is no such thing in the bill, but yesterday the Minister said on the TAB that these things can be regulated in a government decree. I also believe that you should be able to use your technique, how to solve this, but it would be good if it were confirmed, because this morning, the Deputy Secretary of State on TV did not confirm that saying. They asked me after I told you last night, not in public, or I think I told you publicly that the government was preparing for this, which not everyone knew about. This morning, they asked the Deputy Secretary of State, and he said they were investigating a lot of things, but there is no decision. I think that, after we are before a decision, and there is no question that VAT cuts should be promoted, another issue is that there are a lot of bad things in this bill, so that everyone will obviously have to think about what to do with it. Of course, knowing the propagandaistry, which is currently being led by Minister, you will certainly resolve that from now on, anyone who does not vote for this is against VAT cuts, even though he only does not agree with the transfer of funds on film and other matters, which have, in a crappy way, been included in this law in the same way. It's only usually possible to explain this to people for billions of dollars a year, and only Fidesz has it. So it would be nice if you were in the closet, I don't know, or if the Minister would give you an exact answer while you're on the move. I would add that such a system has already worked in Hungary. It was a mistake - and now, as we hope, after the gap is large, this does not happen - that everything was done without an invoice, because life was easier than collecting an account and then reclaiming it. We don't know if that's going to be the reaction, but there's a big difference here, so I'm not sure a small-time industrialist can let you out of your fee if someone doesn't ask for an invoice. It would bleach a lot on the case, and especially now, in combination with the electronic construction log, although if there will be no building permit, then I don't know how it will be, but so much... - I think today's debate should be about this, but in that time it will obviously be difficult to decide what other things are involved in the exemption from building permits, which I also think is unnecessary bureaucracy. But it is also important to pay attention to the fact that there are zones where there are monuments, others, and the parameters of the obligation to notify must be regulated in such a way that there is a lot of substance in it that it is clearly not certain that it should be subject to an authorisation procedure, but that they should not be left behind and no one would want them to, I think, build houses like Elek Mekk just in order to simplify them. So I would like to ask for answers on the way here, and I would like to say, first and foremost, that this food VAT issue should somehow be included in this regulation or in this law. There's the amendment, you have to vote. I think they told me in the Economic Committee that it didn't cause a short-term budgetary problem of around 100 billion, but 150. I think the pork is included, which is already included, so maybe it's more, and the poultry itself is 7-8 billion. I would still keep this on the agenda, and we should resolve this in this bill once we have opened it. And on other matters - whether it really applies to private construction then - it would be good for the Minister to give a clear answer, because it doesn't matter. They're waiting for this answer because now it's spreading because there's a lot of misunderstanding here, in this area. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-15-40	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-12-15-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, the comments inspired me to speak. I think there should be more, much more thought-out laws here. In particular, with regard to this law that we are discussing today, I cannot decide whether we are actually treating this as a VAT issue or whether we want to solve it as a housing crisis, so we want to deal with housing issues. [[10.30]] If we treat it as a question of VAT... - and it is very likely that this is the case, because Minister has also highlighted the reduction in VAT, which he is proud of in this bill that we will be the first in the European Union, and VAT will be 5%. However, if we deal with this whole matter as a VAT issue, then it is absolutely legitimate to say that if we reduce VAT - which we know is very, very high in 27 percent, not only in the European Union but also in the world - we should consider whether, in the case of VAT reductions, the reduction of VAT on new-built apartments from 27 percent to 5 percent, this is the first or perhaps the basic food, because poverty is growing in the country, there are a lot of people, earners who earn under the minimum wage, and it is very, very important to them how much they get access to daily food, the daily food. So that should have been decided before. I think that this whole issue should have been treated as a housing crisis and brought to Parliament in this way. To do this, however, we would need a comprehensive survey, an impact assessment by the government on what the most serious problems of the housing crisis are, which are those layers who do not get housing, who are struggling with rents, whose rent rates take two thirds of their salary, or perhaps in the last few days it has come to light enough that maybe 40,000 people live on the street, so many people don't have a roof over their heads. So in this respect, it should be considered what the most important problems are if we are to tackle the housing crisis. Minister also said that the government's top priority is that everyone in Hungary today has their own house and apartment. This may also have to be considered, depending on changing circumstances, because your own apartment, so if you build somewhere, it will significantly reduce your mobility. In today's world, Hungary also has to go from one area to another, so that someone can get a job, have a job, work. However, this would require a system such as that found in many Western countries, that it is easy to rent apartments for x years in addition to its place of residence. So this concept should be considered whether circumstances have changed, whether or not it is the first place for everyone to have their own home. The question is also, which I'm almost certain is that rent is needed. But when it comes to rent apartments, you don't have to think about just the elements of a person's needy social housing... that can also be a type of rental that almost approaches the market rent to make people more mobile. So we should have thought this through, and first we should have a kind of concept, I think if we wanted to take a meaningful step, to discuss it with Parliament, and then we would certainly have much less problems presenting certain laws if these drafts were prepared after proper preparation. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-15-42	Thank you very much. We would now have a two-minute speaking session, but no one came forward for a two-minute speech, so we will continue the work with comments from its representatives asking for a normal word. Mrs. Loránt Violin, Congresswoman, Jobbik, please.
u2015-12-15-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For my part, I would like to talk about two points on the bill before us. The first such issue I would like to raise now is the question of construction activities subject to a simple announcement. In fact, what this is not a small issue, or a problem, is what this will cause in the Hungarian construction industry, in Hungarian construction activities, we cannot know, because the very soul of this whole proposal, which will be regulated in a government decree, will be detailed as to how the announcement should be documented, what is the procedure of this whole story, but since the government has not given us any kind of information about it, so I really do not know what we can discuss in this matter. More specifically, what is known is what Minister Lazarus recently told us, namely that they want to drastically simplify the building permit procedures in such a way that there will be some kind of pattern plans, from which the builder will be able to choose from a palette or a menu, and in relation to it a certain pattern plan will have to be adapted in some way to the given plot, to the particular terrain conditions, and so on, and this will be the notification procedure which will enable it to be built on. I tell you honestly, I don't know how much you've achieved for the present and highly respected representatives of the government, but the architecture society is unconsciously upset about this issue, namely because they believe that they will be degraded to being a simple foreman by those architects who have spent a lot of time and effort in gaining their skills, learning for many years at university what you will now simply want to degrade, simplify, and degrade to a simple foreman the architects who otherwise have a university degree. The question of model designs will not solve the problem of building structures in Hungary today that are not suitable for public taste - because any strange, surprising and thought-provoking, but there is still such a thing as common taste in Hungary. It's enough to think about the future structures of the City Park, the museums that, in a rough simplistic way, remind you of a large radiator or an ugly cube, and so on, so there's a lot that can come up with what these already winning works look like. In any case, it certainly doesn't suit the common taste as such. Therefore, I do not think that the idea of model designs will solve and remedy all the problems that represent Hungarian architecture today, but it is certain that a significant part of the current, say, 12 thousand architects with chamber membership, has been made unemployed in one second, so that the Hungarian economy will certainly not be turned on. But beyond that, there are countless indiscretions. Here, my fellow Members have already raised thoughts which I very much hope will in some way be clarified by this particular government regulation, because once again, many problems may arise. What is clear, however, is that the local construction code and the regulatory plans attached to it will be roughly reduced by the fact that they are... - I say to the OTES, the Protocol, that this is the 253/1997. Government Decree No 1 contains as an otherwise binding element, which must be included in the Local Construction Code in respect of a plot. I will therefore list what must be laid down in the local construction regulations or in a regulatory plan. For example, the smallest area of the plot, the mode of installation, the maximum extent of installation in Hungarian, the percentage of installation - the maximum level of installation height, the method and extent of public utility, the minimum level of green surface, the structure that is placed there on the given plot, its destination, and the destination that is certainly not to be placed on the given site, and the extent and location of the construction below the ground level, and this is important because this is related to the level indicator, which is also specifically defined for certain construction zones. So the maximum permissible construction density is actually the level area indicator. [[10.40]] Furthermore, as an option, the law provides that certain requirements of the local value protection regulation, such as traditional forms, colours, traditional building materials, traditional crops, should be taken into account, where appropriate, during construction or in the design of its environment. But in the same way, local value protection regulations can also define security of view and visibility. You will not be interested in this, according to the current bill, in building activities subject to such a simple announcement, only the construction method, the maximum extent of the installation and the height of the installation will have to be taken into account in the many aspects listed above. That's it. And I'm sorry, one more thing: the regulatory line. This thing is funny - because the regulatory line means what? For the sake of lay brothers, a small repetition, Minister, is the line between public space and non-public territory. Is it a good thing that you write that this should be taken into account, because imagine that, based on the simple notification procedure, it would be possible to build on public space? So this is a tautology, a completely unnecessary requirement, because it is quite obvious and clear that we do not build on other people's land, where appropriate, on public land, which is the area owned by the community. The other, I must continue to say, is extremely unprofessional - and the person who has drafted this bill probably has not spoken to a builder in his life or asked for the opinion of the profession - that it is otherwise formulated: method of installation or construction, which will have to be taken into account in the simple announcement or when assessing it. For example, the method of installation can be - again for the sake of lay brothers and sisters as a repeat - side-by-side installation, free-standing, closed-line, twins and so on. However, the concept of a construction site means that pre-, side or rear gardens, certain safety distances or other legal requirements, as well as other provisions of the regulatory plan, must be followed and the building can be placed there. So there are two concepts that do not cover each other, and yet they are otherwise formulated in the law. I think that this is a serious mistake, it should be improved, put at least one of the two, because both of them should be taken into account where appropriate. Because overall, we have to say that what is currently in the law doesn't solve anything, doesn't settle anything, will only contain contradictions, or project a controversial vision, an extremely acute norm, which will cause chaos overall. And let's face it, as my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck said, it severely undermines the right to self-determination and the freedom to make regulations of local communities. So I suggest that this part be considered or taken out, because in this way, in this form, it is incomprehensible. The other thing I would like to mention very briefly is the financing of the BKV. You have been talking about, most of the slogans have been about Hungary performing better. Now let's see how Hungary performs better in terms of numbers, such as the BKV situation. Average age of trams: 35 years, but we have 48-year-old trams. At HÉV, we have 39 years of average age, but we also have 49-year-old HÉVs. At the subway, apart from the Alstoms, 32 years is the average age. There are 671 kilometers of rail, a significant part of which is in critical condition, so you have to put the slow sign sign in a lot of places, so technically, the trams can't go as fast as they can, because they'd go out otherwise. The BKV is currently in a critical state in technical terms, and we must say that the risk of the necessary maintenance and non-investment in operations is very significant. The loss of assets is ongoing at the BKV, and since it does not replace it, this loss is accumulated year after year. The cost of technically justified investment would be HUF 76 billion per year. Compared to this, what you're about to give - I'm going to quote all this - it's 1.5 billion forints, which is also not an additional, additional source, but a source separated from the districts, because Budapest can manage at IPA level from about 100 billion forints. By the way, a significant part of this, virtually HUF 8 billion, was spent on BKV and community transport on an annual basis anyway. So there's nothing new about that. Not to mention the small contradiction that you are not obliged to do this part, the additional source that you are now providing, so to speak, to use for community transport in the capital, only especially, so it is written down in the bill. So we're feeling a serious contradiction here, too. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-44	Thank you very much. Speaking to the representatives of a normal word... [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. For two minutes, however, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied. With all due respect, two minutes is one minute 22 seconds in this case. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-45	Mr President, Dear House, I feel that 1 minute 17 seconds will be enough to draw the government's attention to the very important lack of response that we have confronted it with the fact that it has been able to produce less than 300 apartments for the previous approved budget for Hungary as a whole. And don't point a finger at the local authorities, because we're talking about building a public housing facility. So when we are trying to have a meaningful discussion here on how to manage real estate development, housing, rentals and various social aspects together in Hungary, we see that you - once again - are strengthening a market leg, by the way - are strengthening large entrepreneurs, but the state's protective, caring hands are almost completely removed from the system, left out, more precisely. So the question is, when will they finally be willing to assess the vacant real estate assets? [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: This is not the goal.]] when they will be willing to undertake renovation activities, they will also be able to introduce benefits for enlargement, which will make it possible to make substantial progress in these areas; but most importantly, when they will be able to move away from it so that they can provide an average of a few hundred apartments per year when this system is sorely lacking in the national economy. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-46	I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The united debate, Honourable Parliament, is closed. I will ask the Minister, as rapporteur, if he wishes to react. [[Antal Rogán stands up.]] Minister Antal Rogán, please.
u2015-12-15-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to listen carefully to the comments and, if I may, I would respond to them now. I would like to start by continuing to confirm that Hungary's Government's basic objective is to allow everyone in Hungary to have their own apartments, if possible, cheaper and easier than they can do at present. [[Zoltán Grimlock: This is not gonna work!]] This is why we have decided to reduce VAT primarily for newly built apartments, from 27 percent to 5 percent. And here I would also like to make it clear that in the case of newly built residential houses, we will enforce the rule that in the construction of newly built residential houses with a floor area of less than 300 square meters, the construction family or individual may claim the VAT amount of the invoices generated during the building, for a maximum of HUF 5 million per residential house. Moreover, the current law gives the government the power to do so, and this must be clarified in the implementing regulation relating to the law. The Government stands ready to negotiate and take the relevant implementing regulation at the 16th government meeting, if Parliament now takes the decision, mutatis mutandis. I would also like to tell you that we are thinking of a complex home creation programme. This therefore means that the government will review other forms of support linked to home creation. Many people here have missed the issue of renovation. What I can tell you is that the government is supporting the renovation of the house in Hungary, starting from last year, because we have brought back the family home creation discount, which has been abolished by the socialist governments. This family home-building discount has so far been practically limited to renovating a used apartment. There, energy aspects played a significant role in applying for a family home-building discount, but our past six months' experience is that this makes it difficult to make use of it. [[10.50]] That is why I would like to tell you that the government will also look at the system of family home-building benefits. This does not require the amendment of Parliament's law, this requires the amendment of all government decrees, this will take place at the 16th meeting of the Government, and we will negotiate there, mutatis mutandis, that we will also resolve the facilitation of the conditions for recourse to the CSOK, and we will probably increase its amount as well. However, we will be able to announce the details of this after the 16th government meeting, since the government has to discuss this first and make a decision considering the options. I must tell you here that when you set yourself a good goal, you must, of course, also consider the conditions of the budget for this. In Hungary, VAT reductions are possible because we have climbed out of the serious economic, budgetary and debt crisis in which we inherited this country in 2010 and inherited public finances. In 2010, it would have been unthinkable to reduce any VAT, I must say to you. There, the primary goal was to reduce the cost of living for Hungarian families, so we started by bringing back the tax relief for children, reducing personal income tax, and then introducing the reduction of the rent, and the next step could be the implementation of as many elements of a home creation programme as possible, and I think, thus, supporting access to home for families. Luckily, the state of the budget here today - because the Hungarian reforms are working because there are jobs, employment has increased, the tax revenues of the budget have improved - has enabled the budget to now use significant amounts for VAT reductions from 2016 onwards, and we think that we will be able to do so in the first place at the newly built apartments; but we will support the renovation of the used apartments, or we will think about all other forms of support. Here I would add to you that, of course, it is possible to think about housing, but only with the same money that can be used to create a rental, the support system can help access five or six families to their homes. We need to decide which one we want to support: we want to get one family home through a rental apartment, or we need to bring five others to our own homes in the form of, by the way, increasing the family home-building discount, reducing VAT, and introducing large-scale subsidies. If you'll excuse us, we'd rather have five families at home than one, so we chose this form of support. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I see - and we have already clarified this yesterday at the Legislative Committee, and I would like to make it clear here too - that, as at the TAB meeting, of course, here in Parliament, the government will not support socialist proposals to extend the VAT reduction. And I can only shake my head, I said that yesterday, and I think that this attitude that you have here in relation to VAT reductions is indeed a school example of hypocrisy and duplicity and even high school. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That doesn't mean we can't vote!]] 'Cause it was you guys. [[Zoltán Grimlock: This poor man doesn't care!]] who, by the way, significantly increased the VAT on basic foods: first from 12 percent to 15 percent, then from 15 percent to 20 percent, then from 20 percent to 25 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Weak talk!]] So I'm asking you to spend some more time here until you propose another VAT reduction. [[Zoltán Haughty: In January!]] Wait at least as long as the VAT was constantly raised until otherwise steered. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That is a very rude answer, Minister.]] I would also like to add to Congressman Haughty that, by the way, at family houses, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the removal of the possibility of reclaiming from the ominous account of the self-built ones - which we talked about here, which you so strongly urge and which we are going to do now - was also done by you in 2004. So if it hadn't been removed, it would only have fixed his mistakes. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They didn't give me anything back!]] then perhaps this practice could have worked well over the last decade; it is exactly 11 years since you have abolished it. So I understand your urge, but I'd like to add that you're facing your own mistake here in this form. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You mean you?]] Then let me talk about simplifying the construction authorisation procedures. I think that the government is clearly and clearly guided by the reduction of bureaucracy, and I think that everyone in Hungary is trying to make it easier to build an apartment. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Till the house falls on someone!]] I understand all the bureaucratic aspects you represent here, and today the funny thing is that the interests of bureaucracy have been represented here by opposition representatives. [[Zoltán Grimlock: This is frivolous, Minister.]] I think this is indeed a very funny situation; on the other hand, the government has an interest in reducing bureaucracy, and that is why it presented the relevant bill. I'm sorry Congresswoman Violin isn't here anymore... [[Proud Zoltán: That's why children eat anthrax!]] Let me ask you not to yell at me. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I listened to it with all due respect, and I didn't say anything. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It would have been better to answer on the way!]]
u2015-12-15-48	I'm asking you to respect each other's words.
u2015-12-15-49	Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-50	Furthermore, I would like to pay the Minister's attention to the fact that Congresswoman Viedűs is sitting next to me as a notary.
u2015-12-15-51	Excuse me. Meanwhile, Congresswoman Violin went to the pulpit. So what I can say to the congresswoman is that I understand every sentence she has said, but on the one hand, there is no mention of these model designs, so there is no pattern plan here for property below 300 square meters. Here the basic objective is precisely to make the procedure as simple as possible, so there is no building permit, only a notification obligation. As regards the obligation to notify, I think it will have exactly an extra job and even a responsibility for the architect's profession, because the architect must undertake to comply with the local construction regulations and prepare the plan to serve as the basis for the notification. So it doesn't limit his freedom of choice. I am convinced, by the way, that it does not restrict the right of local communities to establish rules. As mayor, I have been involved in the negotiation of several of these construction regulations. I must say to you that the more bureaucratic procedure I know little, and, by the way, in the four or five indicators that we have listed here, all the elements of the local construction regulations must, in the end, be concentrated. If one adheres to this, then the local construction code is also practically fully complied with. And here, I think that cutting red tape is an extremely important interest for all of us. Finally, allow me to say to the rest of you, so in the non-housing part of this bill, I feel that when you asked for a word here in this Chamber, you were simply driven by the intention of searching for the kakán knot. Honestly. What is the problem with changing the allocation of resources or even the trade tax? Does this give the capital more money to finance the BKV or not? [[Zoltán Gőgös: They didn't ask the districts, Minister.]] He's definitely getting more money. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Whose is it? From your district?]] And it was, among other things, you, I remember, who repeatedly urged the districts to deposit more money into the capital register, by the way. Then, on the other hand, let me add that I believe that the government has spent huge sums of money on the capital in recent years: we have taken over BKV's debt, about HUF 150 billion; we have taken over its total debt to the capital, which is about HUF 270 billion. If I look at the interest burden of these, which we have freed the Municipality of Budapest, it is scattered somewhere around HUF 25 and 30 billion. If this money were to be returned to finance the BKV, we would have much less problems. We supported the completion of Metro 4 and the complete renovation of Metro 2, the government is behind the renovation of Metro 3 with a full warranty, the government finances buses and new trams for the capital in the order of 100 billion. Just as we were sitting in this room, the Minister of National Economy has just announced that the national purse buys electric buses for the capital from a separate HUF 4 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you that this is almost continuous, we are constantly involved in the complete and wider renewal of the fleet. But here it is certain that this bill can guarantee the operation of the BKV in this form. Of course, it can be said that there is something else to be translated into the capital's tax revenues, but what I can tell you is that if we reverse it, this is not the most important task of the capital? That's what we've heard all the time. I must therefore say to you, and here I call to the attention of Mrs Hegedűs, that the section you quoted is at the beginning of the law, but at a later stage it is clearly stated that the City Council must provide the amount of 52.5 per cent of its dues to carry out the local community transport task, so this is a full guarantee for the financing of BVK in the next period. Finally, to be honest, I do not see what the problem would be with all the other parts, because I think they have not been able to bring up a valid reason for the other sections of the bill. I therefore ask you, since there is no valid reason here in this form, and I have already put forward the arguments in favour of it as a rapporteur, that, in particular, with regard to the reduction of the VAT on housing, but also for the other stages, you should support the adoption of this bill here in this House. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-52	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place at our meeting today. Dear Parliament, From 12 o'clock, we continue our work with interpellations. Until then, I'll take a 12-hour break. [[Pause: 11.00 12.08President: Dr. János LatorcaiPublishers: Lorántné Hegedűs and Dr. István Tiba]]
u2015-12-15-53	I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats to check that their voting cards have been properly placed in the voting machine. I'd like to inform you that it's past 12 o'clock, and please adjust your watch to Parliament's hour. We've got interpellations coming up. I'm gonna ask for your attention. Member István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title of Health Scandals. Mr István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Here, within the walls of Parliament, opposition representatives are raising health problems, and they are getting answers in order that the majority of governments indicate that health is basically all right. The problem, however, is that this is not the case. Some of the most recent cases, which have already turned into scandal, underlined that something is very wrong in Hungarian health care and especially in hospitals, inpatient care. I list some names: St. Laszlo, St. Stephen, St. John, St. Imre. Doctors, nurses, stand up and leave the facility. There are news of the need to group patients in some rooms so that they can even look at them. There is news of the departure of irreplaceable doctors, whose departure puts healing at risk. Of course, not only in the institutions, but also in the streets. Healthcare advocates and representatives pass on petitions, demands and proposals to government representatives in a series, but the new Secretary of State did not provide a meaningful response to the change they would expect. They leave; two or three leave health care abroad every day, and they have no intention of returning quickly. I miss them. But that's no wonder, because yesterday, when the Independent Health Union was demonstrating, I got this card from them. [[He's showing it to me.]] The average wage of a worker is 1 percent, and it is terrible to say it: 3643 forints. We need wages, we need a raise in order to solve the unfair and unfair system of gratuity that exists now, to keep them at home, to provide high-quality care as far as possible. It takes a substantial increase in wages to do their job, if not in reassuring circumstances, or at least a little more relaxed. And, of course, it's not just for them, it's for the patients, because health care is not just about the doctor, it's not about the nurse, it's about the worker, it's about the patient who wants to heal. Mr State Secretary, this may look different on the glasses of benefits to government members and state leaders providing priority benefits, but I am asking what they will do to stop health problems. [[Continued noise, move.]] I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-12-15-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We're not going anywhere until they take their seats. If you'd like to sit down, or if you have something to discuss, go outside and carry on outside the meeting room. It is simply not possible to hear correctly what is being said in the speech of its Members. To what has been said, not to what I have said, but to what we have heard on the question of interpeller. [[Defiance.]] Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, All I can say to the diminished MSZP fraction is that what the Socialist Party is doing is infinite hypocrisy. Now that you are in opposition, you are demanding additional benefits for health workers, I would add that we are working on this, not just demanding it, but we are trying to do so to a greater extent than the growth of the national total product. But when they were on the government, they did not seek systemic solutions, but privatized hospitals and put the workers in danger. Look at the disadvantage that this is now in Eger or in Hatvan or elsewhere, where hospitals have been privatized and how many doctors have gone! Then they took away 13 months' salary, let alone not raising it, but reduced the wages of all health workers. And instead of a system-wide solution, they just wanted to keep patients away from hospitals, put in a visitation fee, a hospital allowance, so that as few people as possible could get well and take as much as possible off the road to recovery. After this, the Hungarian Socialist Party is very proud to stand up after the electorate and the OECD have issued a certificate of poverty in terms of wage and GDP, as not the current government, but any government-related experts, but the OECD said that under socialist governments there was 2.3 percent withdrawal from health care. [[12.10]] This was also the turn of the trend after 2010, and not only did the withdrawal decrease, not only did the withdrawal stop, but there was an expansion of resources in health care, and I do not count on the HUF 500 billion medical development that will usually be completed this semester. Compared to this, we have a long-term picture of health, the first steps of which we have already tried to implement. Thus, for example, this 27 percent increase in wages, to which we are currently covered. We have said that we do not have the courage to take on raises from credit, but as the total national product increases, and since 2013, it has been growing significantly, we are taking on the higher share of health wage increases. We do not dispute that nurses, doctors, have more to offer for the work they have done, but we have not undertaken to finance these wages out of debt and credit. This year, in addition to the previous 95 thousand health workers, 77 thousand people who work next to a sickbed and have shift allowances and night allowances, we have secured additional wage increases, so in addition to our previous 75 billion-dollar commitment, we will spend another 5 billion this year and 12 billion forints on the wages of healthcare workers next year. But that is not the only step we have taken, honourable Member. You know very well that emigration is the main threat to young doctors, to the elderly, but to the greatest extent, it is the young doctors who are mobile and who, if necessary, go from the countryside to Budapest, Budapest or West Hungary abroad. That is why we have launched the Resident Support Programme, which has now succeeded in keeping thousands of residents at home. These figures also show that when we took over government from you, the number of residents entering vocational training was 420 per year. This rose to 904 last year, and this year, when we changed the system, and the hospitals no longer pay their wages, but pay their wages from the central budget, we had to increase the number of eligible residents to 1338. Cross-reference these two numbers. 420 and 1338. Your result is where the number of residents entering, wanting to work here in Hungary and what this government has achieved. Or look at the number of doctors asking for work permits abroad, honourable Member. From this he draws the number of doctors of foreign nationality; otherwise, the number of people who came here to work in Hungary has more than doubled. If you only look at how many Hungarian doctors have applied for a permit to work abroad for the first time, this was 755 for you, it has now fallen to 432. That's a lot less doctors wandering around. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This does not mean, of course, that we should not continue the policy of wage increases, but only Fidesz-KDNP has succeeded, and you have only been able to reduce the wages of healthcare workers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-15-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr István Tukacs if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman. [[Noise from the pro-government benches. Crikeys: Yes! Yes! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-12-15-58	Mr President, I congratulate the Fidesz faction on finding the health situation so good. The Secretary of State has answered me last week to the question of St. Imre that they will be paid on a prime minister's level by these stand-up anesthesiologists. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: It happens, that's right!]] And I added that I'm sure they'll leave their hospital for adventure. Shame! Since then, six more doctors have stood up in that hospital! Secretary of State, we should be looking at reality. Reality is the image of St. John's Hospital's crumbling medical room circulating on the Internet, not what you're saying. And the therapist won't be given a bite of bread at the store for you to compare it to the last year. I checked the OECD chart. It's different. Turn it around and you'll see [[Noise in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Because if I turn it around, it's the other way around.]] How much money you guys pulled out of health care. That's what I'd suggest. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, I do not accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-59	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 103 yes, 32 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: "Can online democracy be confiscated? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The city of Siófok has recently been at the heart of the media's interest, and unfortunately not because of its excellent beaches or famous tourism, but since the mayor's change, the skeletons of the previous city leadership have been falling out of the closet. There was a recording of the former mayor, Árpád Balázs, convincing the then Fidesz parliamentary candidate about how the Public Machine would finance his campaign through a waste sorting project. Or let's talk about Balaton-Parti Kft. of his famous corruption suspects, in which the current mayor, Róbert Lengyel, made a series of reports, and in which the prosecution also investigates. [[12.20]] However, at the exfideszes mayor of the city, Árpád Balázs, these were not the ones that broke the guarantee, but rather an entry shared on a social media site, according to which an apartment in downtown Siófok was sold at a suspicious price. The story takes a rather interesting turn from here. Árpád Balázs filed a complaint against anyone who shared this post on his social media site. And then, by the way, even more shockingly, the prosecution takes over this otherwise private charge and continues to prosecute people who have shared an entry on their Facebook page in public proceedings. That's because they shared an entry they liked. In a country that's lied to democracy, I think it's unthinkable. So the D.A.'s office came forward as a public prosecutor. They treat these people like criminals. This is an outrageous, but fidesz solution in all its tastes. Why? If you can't control or censor the Internet, then act with the means of intimidation! Fear those who share a post, imprison them, and next time they won't do it. What kind of solution is that, Mr. Secretary of State? However, to date, or perhaps precisely for this reason, nearly three thousand have already been divided, in protest against the restriction of freedom of expression. [[István Szilárd Németh: Don't joke!]] I ask the government: is the institution of freedom of speech important to you? It's not enough that there's corruption going on in the government, you're even punishing the person who reads that into your head? [[István Szilárd Németh: The Jobbik!]] How much does a public figure have to put up with? If his questionable dealings are read on his head, will he have to tolerate it? 'Cause in our opinion, you're gonna have to put up with it. Are you planning to censor the Internet or limit freedom of speech in any other way, in order to make a final attack on freedom of speech that is repressed on social networks? In order to allow the poor public media, which, by the way, is the pathetic mouthpiece of the government propaganda, to perform its brainwashing activities without obstacles. Because at the moment, this is what we are unfortunately witnessing in Hungary. What do you want, Mr. Secretary? Do I want the '50s back? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-61	Thank you very much. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-15-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is particularly important for the constitutional interests of citizens and the press to participate in social and political debates without uncertainty, compromise or fear. Increased protection of political expression applies both to judgements of value in public matters and to statements of fact in public matters. The free criticism, functioning, monitoring and criticism of the institutions of the democratic rule of law and of politicians who professionally shape democratic public life - whether this is extremely sharp or offensive - is a fundamental right of the members of society, citizens and the press, which is an essential element of democracy. In the case of persons exercising public authority and public politicians, the limitation of personality protection is considered to be more necessary and proportionate than anyone else. At the same time, the Constitutional Court stressed that this does not involve emptying the protection of the human dignity, privacy and reputation of those involved. People exercising public authority and public politicians also have the right to privacy, and public actors can also claim legal protection against false claims. Therefore, in view of the requirements arising from social coexistence, the Criminal Code has removed the limits of freedom of speech and has ordered slander to punish someone who claims to be a person of integrity, using a celebrity or a term directly referring to such a fact. This can take a variety of forms, so it is possible to commit in addition to personal communication on various social media sites in the newspaper article and using other possibilities of the Internet. In the event of defamation, it is not a condition that the statement of facts and rumors capable of defaming honor be false in substance and, consequently, that these crimes may be carried out in the event of a statement of a true fact. At the same time, freedom of expression related to public affairs, the requirement for criticism of public interest, social justice is an important interest which must also be enforced by law. Therefore, the Criminal Code defined it as a ground for non-criminality if it proved to be an objectively appropriate statement of fact in connection with the dispute on public affairs, in order to undermine the integrity of public affairs. There is an increased social interest in the criminal protection of the social respect and human dignity of the official. This is expressed in the legislation in force by declaring defamation and defamation of a criminal offence committed in violation of an official's law, in the course of his official proceedings, as a criminal offence to be prosecuted by a public prosecutor, or by imposing a public prosecution on those two offences, even if they are not committed during the official's formal proceedings, but in close association with the official's proceedings, due to official proceedings. I wish to indicate that the Ministry of Justice is not a law enforcement body, so that it does not have the power to decide on the pending case, nor to issue a resolution binding on the parties or any public authority. As regards the criminal aspects of interpellation, we are only able to provide general information on the legislation in force. In the pending case, the prosecution shall supervise the investigation; a question may be addressed to the Attorney General pursuant to Article 7 (1) of the Fundamental Law. Thank you for your attention. I ask the congressman to accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] A question may be addressed to the Attorney General pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. Thank you for your attention. I ask the congressman to accept my reply. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2015-12-15-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-64	Mr. Secretary. In professional terms, it was a huge bullshit you've just told me, and you haven't answered my question in substance. In the last 25 years, you have built a system with the MSZP, which is about the need for everyone to fear for their work, their existence and their personal freedom now, if you do not commit allegiance to Fidesz or the current government in power. This system will be liquidated by Jobbik, completely on the government. Everyone should be given the right position on the merits, not on the basis of their government ties. And now, since we are quite public, Mr. Secretary, I will do what nearly three thousand people have done, and I will also share the incriminated entry on my own Facebook page. I'm ready to proceed with the procedure, I'm ready to kidnap, I'm ready to suspend immunity, I'm up for it. Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-65	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 34 votes against and no abstentions. Members of Sallai R. Benedek and Szél Bernadett, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Is it not enough that they earn little, even late, public sector workers get their wages? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, please.
u2015-12-15-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It seems that we have come to the point that not only is the wage increase causing difficulties for the government in the public sector, but you cannot cope with the timely transfer of wages. Plus, this isn't about a one-time mistake. You hold nearly 900 thousand public workers in a situation where they do not receive their due pay in time, they do not receive their salary, hundreds of thousands of workers were late in receiving their wages for November in this country. [[John Lazarus: That is not true! Just tell me the truth.]] and there are also people who have transferred only part of their salary [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] There are also omissions in the payment of overtime, travel expenses and bonuses. You know, I'm interrogating the respected government to finally give you the opportunity to talk to these people and to say, in substance, that you are apologizing to them on the one hand and investigating this case on the other, and the third is to guarantee that it will never happen again. The most outrageous thing about this is that to date, no one has taken responsibility for the fact that these people have not received their wages in time. The Treasury and the institutions are practically pointing at each other. The Treasury washes its hands, they couldn't help but blame the Treasury and blame the transition to the new payroll system. But in the meantime, the government won't say a word, they won't apologize, they won't promise immediate action, they won't look for those responsible. The Deputy State Secretary of the NGM was able to say that it was possible, I quote, that something had happened at the individual budgetary bodies - so the quote - and the other quote said that they regret what had happened and asked for understanding. [[12.30]] You know, gentlemen and ladies, if these people had paid as much as you did, they might not have a problem getting paid in time. [[György Balla: What is your salary?]] But in the public sector, seven years ago, wages were practically frozen, wages were not raised, minor allowances were paid to those who received them at all. And now these people are here before Christmas, and you owe them the wages. In the meantime, of course, I know that there are ministries, Mr. Minister, where there are rewards, there are many additions. But what about the 900,000 people? And I'd like to add that in last week's government briefing, they basically made it to the lie, they said that the money was always being paid. Do you know what this is about? The CLIC can't even tell us how many people we're talking about. The KLIK said, I quote, that there is a disproportionate amount of work to collect the data. It's a situation like this. In such a situation, the CLIK is able to say that it would take a lot of work to find out how many people were not paid. Do you know what the LMP expects of you? Three things: (1) follow the workers; (2) immediately examine the situation; (3) guarantee by finding those responsible that this will never happen again. And I now ask you with respect what you do in this situation, what these workers can expect.
u2015-12-15-67	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to your interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-15-68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you are once again not prepared for an interpellation in the depth, because in your interpellation you distort or simply lack facts and realities. I believe that he has now appeared in the image of a negative, sensationalist opposition politician during the interpellation, especially when he talks about nearly 900 thousand state workers being insecurity for months. Or when you say that hundreds of thousands of workers were late receiving their wages for November. I believe that you or your party have not been approached by hundreds of thousands of people, but, in fact, by any complainant. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Because you forbid it by e-mail! No comment!]] You've been scissoring the news from the media during your interpellation. What are the facts, really? The fact that the Hungarian State Treasury has been a new, modern one since November 2015 is the XXI. It has been moving to a system of stipending for the challenges of the 20th century, introducing such a programme, and has been preparing for the changeover for years. This affects 900 thousand people in Hungary, as well as over 12,000 institutions. Hundreds of millions of data had to be processed to ensure that the new system, which is a modern, up-to-date system, would work and that calculations and references would take place in time. The changeover took place between 5 and 16 November. No one claims that the transition, such a far-reaching work, can be done without problems. This cannot happen anywhere in the world, because, once again, it is a program and data of such magnitude that mistakes are almost natural. As a result of the transition to the new salary system, some institutions may have received their wages a day or two later, but this is still within the legal deadline. Unlike institutional practice and customs, a delay of one or two days may have occurred. I indicate that, according to the law, professional staff receive their wages by 5th of each month and 10th of every month, and that this was also achieved during the pay payments in November. By the way, the Treasury has developed an e-mail system to indicate who has a problem. By December 7, 23, 7-12 December, 61 requests and notifications were received, which the Treasury investigated thoroughly in all cases and provided an appropriate reply. What I can tell you is that the system will be fully operational after its fine-tuning, and a salary accounting system will be put in place that will up-to-date employee data rather than the old so-called recovery system. From next year, it's really a XXI. In Hungary, a staff and civil servants system will be established in the 20th century. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-70	I don't accept it, Mr. President. What the government does is outrageous. What are you talking about? CHAPTER XXI It's not about not paying the workers' wages in time. CHAPTER XXI It should be precisely that there are workers' rights and regular wages. I find it outrageous that some public workers - teachers, nurses, social workers and others - wait for their wages in vain. We're talking six months behind, Mr. Secretary of State. Six-month lags! And you don't take responsibility, you don't investigate them, you basically don't do anything. They say it was within the legal deadline. I think that if you can spend 3 billion in one ministry on all kinds of commissions and bonuses because some of you have helped you quickly to spend EU funds, then don't do it to the other state worker so that he won't get that little wage in time. Pay attention to the fact that there can be no difference between a public worker and a public worker. What you can't do is one part of the government says that there's any reward, and the other one says, "Wait for the worker to get his hunger pay." You can't do that, Mr. Secretary. Examine and act in substance, that's what we expect of you.
u2015-12-15-71	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative János Halász, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: a direct flight from Debrecen-München. What does the new flight mean for Hajdú-Bihar County and East Hungary? It's an address. Mr János Halász has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-72	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you remember how much obstacles, hostility, malice we had to deal with in Debrecen in order to open the airport again. During the first Orbán government, in 2001, it could finally become an international airport. Then, again, there were times that did not favour either people or economic development. However, the City of Debrecen recognised the economic potential of the airport and developed it continuously. Then, after another victory by the civilian government, the development of the airport was given a new impetus. While in 2011, 19 thousand people made use of the airport service, passenger traffic in 2014 was 145 thousand, and this year is expected to reach 180 thousand, i.e. almost ten times more passenger traffic. The airport in Debrecen became the most important and at the same time the largest traffic port in Eastern Hungary, the second busiest after the Liszt Ferenc International Airport in Budapest. A good opportunity for further growth is that from April 2016, Lufthansa, one of the world's largest airlines, will start a direct flight between Debrecen and Munich three times a week, which hopefully will help the region develop. In recent years, the city of Debrecen, together with its strategic partner, has spent a total of HUF 7 billion on airport development, and it seems that the work invested is becoming more and more profitable. Dear Secretary of State, It also shows that it was worth fighting that the airport in Debrecen had become a base airport for Wizz Air. In addition to the increase in traffic and passenger numbers, the impact of the airport on the economy and job creation is also outstanding, while the airport significantly increases the economic and tourist attractiveness of our region. Thanks to the presence of the international airport, many companies have been established in Debrecen and its region over the past 15 years, employing hundreds or thousands of people. As a result of the city's conscious economic development policy, additional companies choose Debrecent as the location for their investment. [[12.40]] In other words, new jobs are being created, the economic stability of the city is increasing through paid local taxes, and investments to improve urban quality of life increase the quality of life and the quality of life of people in our city, which will enable additional investors to settle in Debrecen. This is an exemplary development, where the real winners are the Debrecen, the Hungarian tax-paying citizens. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary what the new flight means for Hajdú-Bihar County and East Hungary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-15-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Lajos Kósa, who is sitting next to you, knows best how much effort Debrecen has made to put the airport in position with the help of the civil government, and how much investment they had to make to put the airport in Debrecen in the position we see it now. Many of the energy invested has not been wasted, as we can see that not only Debrecen, not only the county of Hajdú-Bihar, but also East Hungary's real economic base and centre is the airport, and we know that the capital injections that came from private investors clearly serve to complete the multimodal centre and naturally bring the world into Debrecen and its region. In recent years, as you well know, the route and history of the airport in Debrecen have started with charter flights, and today the situation is quite different. He was right, and he knows exactly how important stations have been in recent years, and he also knows that these stations were actually just a warm-up. But naturally for Debrecen airport, Debrecen and the county, it is also important that all transport development projects are carried out, and naturally those supported by the Hungarian government from the budget can be implemented with EU funds from the integrated transport development operational programme, as well as those generated from private capital, all of them. Passenger traffic will then continue to increase, which is hoped and planned to increase by up to one million passengers by 2020, which clearly means that attention will continue to increase for the region. Investors are coming, and we feel that not only Debrecent, but also the region as a whole will be discovered, and our values and treasures will be revealed in rural development. Jobs are growing, this is natural, not just at the airport, but elsewhere where they may be affected by transport, and naturally also places that have attracted tourism are becoming more visited. It seems that this warm-up era of Debrecen is coming to an end, and they are going up to the center field together with Hungary, and they are able to fight for further development, which will be a kind and pleasant struggle, as they will be a clear competition against others. Transcarpathia, Transylvania and the Highlands are also in competition for the opportunities that will otherwise be culminating at this airport. We are also in competition with regional and regional airports, but of course these are healthy competitive situations. I am sure that Debrecen will be able to take advantage of the benefits that she will be able to obtain from the grants, and it is natural that this will also trigger the movement of internal and regional economic forces inside. We are not only looking for opportunities from abroad, but also from other neighborhoods. Inside and inside, we have the strength to increase that. Of course, the development of the international airport in Debrecen is extremely important for Hungary, since one of Hungary's bases is Debrecen and the people in the region are counting on us. In my opinion, this will indeed be the time that will come, which will truly show that Debrecen's ambition, the sacrifice of the county and the help of the Hungarian government were really worth the money, it was worth the opportunity, we can use it. I trust that the citizens of Debrecen will properly assess and assess the efforts in the future, as I see now the efforts of the municipality of Debrecen, which are the same as those of the previous municipality. I wish Debrecen good work, good luck and, naturally, everyone a merry Christmas. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr János Halász to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-12-15-76	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, and I would also like to ask you something. You remember last week there was a big fog in Debrecen, and one of the London flights couldn't land there, and this flight had to land in Budapest. These things happen, there are extreme weather situations at every airport. But we also know that in Debrecen there's an automatic detachment unit that brings the planes down to a height of 800 meters, and it's a lot harder to land safely in a big fog. There is also a detachment unit that automatically delivers the machines to a height of 250 metres. If it were one of these in Debrecen, aviation safety would improve a lot, we'd be helping the airport a lot, so I'm gonna start a meeting with you on how we can move towards such a development. Thank you, I accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Lázár, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-78	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as I have repeatedly said, safety always comes first. This cannot be overwritten by any economic and political interest. Mr. Secretary, I would like to point out once again that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is not a game. It requires not only management, but expertise as well. Leaders must live with the problems and problems of the workers there, and even understand how the Paks blocks work. To operate everyday, workers and CEOs need to speak one language. After all, Pakson is responsible for the day-to-day operation. Each week, the business manager's meeting discusses the agendas related to the operation of the power plant for that week. The heads of each area shall submit their proposals by Friday of the preceding week, which shall also be sent to the CEO and the Director. This is the hundreds of pages of Hungarian professional presentations to be read by the responsible company managers by Monday. How do you think the power plant will run smoothly if the CEO and the people under it don't speak the same language? Will the CEO, who will be targeted from abroad, live and translate with him every hour of every day? According to the leaks, Hans-Peter Villis was the German manager. He is the one who probably raised the wages of the leaders of the state companies in the energy sector by millions. According to the news, he doesn't want to play that role. At Miklós Seszták's ministerial hearing, he said that they will discuss this issue until 31 December and decide who will be the CEO. Please do not make a political decision on the position of CEO of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Please make a professional decision by asking the local leaders. Unfortunately, Pakson has once lived by the power plant workers that you have removed the respected and respected former CEO of the power plant without any particular, rational reason. Now he's the 80 percent elected mayor of our city, the Fides. The residents still respect, appreciate, regardless of party standing. The current CEO also started his professional work as a young engineer at the power plant. He's been running the ladder, and now he's been waiting almost a year for uncertainty about when he's being replaced. For the sake of peace of mind of the Pakson workers, please confess here, Minister, what is the real reason for the levitation of the replacement? Do you really not know any Hungarian experts who know how to operate the Paks blocks? If you don't, the people who work there should be asked, I think they'd be happy to help.
u2015-12-15-79	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Minister János Lázár will answer your interpellation question. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-12-15-80	Mr President, Honourable House of Representatives. I would like to thank Mrs Paks for her repeated interpellation and question, as she is familiar with Paks and the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and I now see that she knows the Government's intentions in detail. I would like to thank you for continuously displaying the interests of Paks and the interests of the nuclear power plant, with the involvement of trade unions and management, and I would also like to thank you very much for supporting the maintenance and capacity maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant from a number of opposition representatives. This is very important, because this is a national issue, so that the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is maintained and the nuclear power plant does not have to be closed. If you allow me to do so, I also consider this to be a very important matter, and I would like to respond to your question: if a new nuclear power plant is created in addition to the current nuclear power plant, then the question is whether the new nuclear power plant capacity, the building blocks will be operated and who will operate it. The Hungarian government has a clear position that we need a state-owned operator and operator, and we have the intention - I do not see any other such intention or proposal, although we could, but our intention is to entrust Paks I to colleagues working in the nuclear power plant at the moment to operate the new nuclear power plant capacity. [[12.50]] This is a very important thing, because it means that anyone who works in Paks I. has a job for the next 60 years. This is positive news for thousands of workers, although obviously only on a theoretical level, but still there would be the opportunity to try to organise a completely new team, but this is not the way we want to go. Meeting the unions, I reassured everyone that Paks II. in operation and operation, we expect Paks I. experts. As for your specific questions, if you'll allow me, I'd like to line them up. You're asking me not to make a political decision about the CEO of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. It's not a political decision, I can reassure you. He's asking us to make a professional decision. I assure you that a professional decision will be made and that a professional with a national and international authority will be assigned. I can also tell you that we accept the work of János Süli, current mayor, former CEO, and that our candidate has been beaten like ice on the border, so that the statement is politically correct, and we have good cooperation with Mr. CEO. His proposal, which may concern János Süli being the new CEO, I cannot accept it because he was elected mayor by the Paksians, otherwise he could be considered. If you want to make a personal suggestion, thank you very much. You're telling me to confess right here, right now, at this crime scene, what's the reason for the actual replacement. When I met Mr Hamvas, he indicated to me, for example, that he wanted to retire shortly, in addition to the change of professional concept, so we need to find a new CEO. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-81	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Minister's answer. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-82	I can't accept it because of one thing [[Noise, clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'll tell you why. On the one hand, I did not recommend János Süli as CEO, because we are honored that he is now the mayor of our city, respected and respected by everyone. I really cannot accept it just because of their past, from the way that Mr. CEO János Süli was replaced by thousands of people who worked there to let him remain CEO, because he was respected and appreciated. They've been hovering over who's gonna be the CEO of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for a year, which is why people working there are worried about what's gonna happen to them. All they see and feel is that you decide them today, and they're afraid that a political decision will be made. That is why we are asking that a professional decision be made, and that Hungarian expert should run the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as we need to speak a language for the workers and the person who runs it. That's why I'm asking you to calm us down this year and the people who work there so everyone can have a good Christmas. Thank you.
u2015-12-15-83	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes to 21, with 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title of Land Tax. Mrs. Loránt Violin's notary, please.
u2015-12-15-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, From 2015 there is a new tax option for municipalities, the municipal tax. It is regrettable that the underfunded municipalities are increasingly forcing the municipalities to introduce this new tax, as well as a specific mutation, the land tax, in addition to the construction tax, land tax and communal tax. In this regard, the Curia has recently taken an extremely important decision. In advance, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights initiated an investigation into the municipal tax regulation of Balmazújváros and then turned to the Curia, as he found that the regulation was in breach of higher law. In his view, because the municipality has also introduced the agricultural levy, the land may no longer be subject to any other public burden under the Law on Local Taxes, so the municipal tax cannot be levied on it. The Curia agreed with this argument and also explained in its decision that if the landowner, as an original producer or a member of a company, carries out business on his land, that activity precludes him from being subject to the municipal tax. Although the Curia's decision applies only to Balmazújváros, it may also affect the municipal tax regulation of other municipalities. I would like to note here that in the past, Htv. In the debate on the amendment to the directive, we have already expressed our view that a targeted investigation could also establish that the municipal tax is contrary to the basic law, as well as its conflict with other laws. Let me list our former arguments here and now. This form of taxation is not even known by the Fundamental Law, only the local tax is named, and the municipal tax is, we know that it is not, and in the current legislation there is virtually no framework for the tax law, which results in a complete lack of legal certainty, i.e. in virtually any order of magnitude the land tax is established, the sky is the limit. Furthermore, in the great rush, they forgot to name the new tax code in the municipal law, so it does not include it, it does not know it as its own income form, and then how it can be booked at all. Dear Minister, On the basis of all this, when can the competent government offices, in their judicial oversight process, be allowed to withdraw the land tax regulations? In any case, when will the concept of municipal tax be repealed? How long will the hardworking little people have to pay the price of the stick-made law? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-12-15-86	Thank you very much. It is true that you did not interpel the Minister responsible for the municipalities, as regards municipal taxes, but let me nevertheless, my fellow Member, allow me to make a comment on behalf of the government concerning the right of local governments to levy taxes. My conviction and the government's aim and intention are to try to secure the economic freedom and the local economic freedom of the municipalities. The condition of this is that, in so far as it complies and is compatible with the tax rules laid down by the European Union and the Hungarian tax rules - I refer here to the continuing doubts about the business tax - if the legal conditions are to be maintained, the representative bodies should have the right to free taxation in 3200 Hungarian municipalities. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then we will vote about us?]] I believe that this is an indeterminate right resulting from the Fundamental Law, which deserves every municipality. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: What are we voting on? A sturdy applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The State is wrong to restrict the right of municipalities to levy taxes for various partial purposes. We say nothing more than that the municipality has more taxing rights than before, we do not say what tax it has to impose, but we say just now that the amendment of the Business Tax Act tabled by the Government is a good example of this: it is primarily local tax for social expenditure and where public transport is to be financed and used for public transport. However, we do not label it, so there is a local tax revenue that the local government is free to manage. What would be the point of local governments, otherwise, if we did not leave this leeway? Congresswoman says that there is no one to make a decision, there is no shoreless or there is no legal framework. Of course it is. ! Local bodies of representatives act as legislators on local issues on the basis of the rules of democracy, regulating the possibility of charging taxes through local regulations, do not question that. I hope that Jobbik does not have the ambition to undermine municipal rights, to deprive the municipalities of their right to levy taxes or to take away their decision. The very important debate that the representative bodies have every year in order to see how much the local tax should be, and it is possible to innovate in it, it is possible to burden the population, depending on what the capacity is and what the legal framework is. Of course, we know the decision of the Curia, of course we followed the decision of the Curia, and of course, the Curia, contrary to your claim, does not exclude the right to levy local taxes, even does not exclude land taxes, but regulates its framework and conditions. For example, those who are exempt from tax by the State cannot be taxed locally and are also subject to double taxation. Seven investigations are currently under way, 23 municipal decrees are being reviewed, and I have instructed government offices to review all local government tax regulations from this point of view after the Curia's decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-87	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Minister's answer.
u2015-12-15-88	No, I cannot accept the ministerial answer, I am very sorry, and I am also very sorry that the Minister has not listened to what I asked, and I am even more sorry that he does not know the local tax law, because in the local tax law it is quite clear and obvious that this tax form is not a local tax, it is another type of tax, it is called a municipal tax. [[13.00]] Yes, I came to you because you are the Minister for Government Administrations, and exactly the government agencies should have dealt with this matter, and it should have been done much earlier, because Minister Fazekas himself has also told you what framework you think this right to levy taxes can be, but you have done nothing, you have been guilty of allowing a lot of settlements to introduce this tax form. By the way, if you're talking about economic freedom, Minister, you know what? Give back 60% of the car tax, then there will be economic freedom! [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] Give back 8 percent of the remaining, and then there will be economic freedom! [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks. Interjection in the same place: Don't shout.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-89	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 110 votes to 48, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of the KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: "Is the fight against metal theft successful? It's an address. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-12-15-90	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm guessing you'll answer. Nearly two years passed, the 2013 CLX on Metal Trade. Since the adoption of a law which significantly strengthened the regulation of the sector and set itself the objective of preventing theft of non-ferrous metals and illegal trade. It is worth recalling, ladies and gentlemen, what we have set out to do with regulation in order to reduce metal thefts. Some of the most important changes are: stricter controls and introduce them; increase penalties; tighten permit and storage conditions and ultimately improve cooperation between authorities. Since the adoption of the law, we are very pleased to hear news that metal theft or illegal metal trade has been significantly reduced. It was well known that this problem had previously been very sensitive, among other things, to public services. Dear Secretary of State, I have been informed that the 2013 CLX on Metal Trade. Since the entry into force of law, the situation of public service providers has improved significantly. Together, security efforts and the tightening legislation have produced tangible results over the relatively short period so far. For example, the number of cable thefts has decreased to six in two years and the number of metal thefts has fallen to one third in two years, which is perhaps the most vulnerable but important public service provider. According to the Budapest Transport Company, the number of metal thefts has decreased significantly here, thanks to the effective cooperation between BKV and the police, which has been the subject of several successful raids in recent years. I would note here that maintaining the safety of transport must continue to be a very important objective. We therefore expect and rightly expect that further very strict monitoring will be carried out, thus preventing possible crimes and creating maximum restraint. Dear Secretary of State, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Experience over the past period has shown that thefts have decreased. I respectfully ask what kind of metal trade controls have been carried out by the authorities concerned and what results have been achieved. Are there any new developments and can we hope to continue the positive trend? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-91	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation question of the congresswoman. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-15-92	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Following the publication of the legislation on metal trade in nearly two years, it is still a successful law, and its implementation is also a success, because, as you said, we are indeed able to deliver results in terms of reducing metal theft and eliminating illegal metal trade. In the period from 1 January to 4 November 2015, a total of 2045 metal trading controls were carried out, of which 948 cases were identified by the determining finance officers. The National Tax and Customs Office imposed a total of 955 million 862 thousand HUF metal trading fines as a result of the metal trade violations detected. In total, 137 cases of illegal metal trading have been discovered by NAV customs. More than 8.7 tonnes of material subject to a metal trading licence were seized by financial officers during the metal trade controls. Of course, in order for this success to continue, the Ministry of National Economy will also do its best. There are ongoing consultations with the National Tax and Customs Office to ensure that adequate interpretations of the law are obtained and that the resulting implementation is consistent and clear. The NAV also has excellent contacts with other bodies, including the police and the Environmental Inspectorate. The Ministry is associated with several professional organisations and is constantly evaluating the implementation of the law, possible changes and changes. Several consultations were also held between NGM, NAV and several public service providers, such as MÁV, BKV and ELME. Based on what they have said, their damage has been greatly reduced. For example, the damage of BKV, which was 178 million forints in 2012, decreased to less than 12 million forints this year. The same is the case with the MÁV, where 883 cases of railway theft and damage occurred in 2012, which has decreased to only 109 in 2015. The same can be said in the case of ELMÚ, where the damage was still HUF 380 million in 2012, and now this figure has fallen to less than HUF 20 million. Similar results are presented at E.ON and Waterworks. I also believe that these numbers are indisputable proof of the success of the metal law. Of course, both the Ministry, the National Tax and Customs Office and the competent professional bodies are doing their best to continue this positive trend and to completely eliminate metal theft and eliminate illegal metal trading in Hungary. Thank you, Congresswoman, for your attention and your interpellation. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-12-15-94	Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I am aware that here, among the walls of the Parliament, there are often serious matters of historical importance, compared to this, cable thefts and metal thefts seem to be a very insignificant subject, which may even give some light. At the same time, don't steal! The command and compliance are a millennia of orders, and it is very important that our safety is served by the good implementation of this law. The convincing answers by the Secretary of State, which dealt with a reduction from 318 million to 20 million or a reduction from 178 million to 12 million, are reassuring that we do not have to fear that irresponsible metal and cable thefts will put our safe transport, do not give us a god, our lives in danger. I wish you to continue to succeed in this work. I accept your reply with thanks. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[13.10]]
u2015-12-15-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. We're moving on. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: No time?]] Member József Kovács, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. They deserve special attention and receive the title of young people in our country. Congressman József Kovács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-96	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For Fidesz-KDNP, it is of the utmost importance that all children participating in public education receive the same high level of knowledge in schools, wherever they live in the country, while maintaining and strengthening their mental and physical health. This is also intended to serve the purpose of a number of changes introduced, such as the establishment of a menu regulation to promote the health of young people, which entered into force in January 2015 or the introduction of free textbook provision in an emerging system. In addition to preserving and strengthening the physical and psychological health of children, we also pay particular attention to the position of young people in the labour market. Twenty-two thousand start-up locations have been made possible thanks to the job protection action plan. It is pleased that the level of youth unemployment in Hungary has decreased in recent years, while this has continued to increase in the euro area. Fidesz-KDNP also places considerable emphasis on keeping residents and young specialists at home. It is a key government goal that all young people wishing to start specialist training in Hungary can participate in the programme. In addition, the residency support programme has been available in Hungary since 2011. Since the introduction of the scholarship programme, the number of doctors applying for an official certificate to work abroad has been steadily decreasing. As part of the general medical establishment proposal, in August 2014 an application was issued to support the establishment of doctors who filled at least 12 months of unfilled GPs, and 80 empty practices were filled. Dear Secretary of State, What are the results of the announced residency grants and related support programmes, and what measures are being taken to keep young specialists at home? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-15-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The numbers that the Member has also reported are no coincidence. If we look at the average youth unemployment in the European Union, we see that the figure in Hungary is 20.6 percent, and in Hungary it is 16.2, so more than 4 percent better than the EU average. As the Member said, this depends not only on local circumstances, but also on government action, and the job protection action plan, besides many other target groups, has been a priority target group for young people under the age of 25 as well as for mothers or long-term unemployed, unskilled or pre-retireed workers. Thus, on average, 158 412 young people under the age of 25 have benefited from the job protection action plan in recent years. This means that the government has supported the employment of young workers under the age of 25, amounting to HUF 22.9 billion, i.e. HUF 23 billion. This is why youth unemployment has fallen below the EU level in Hungary, and it is also important that the Youth Guarantee Programme represents an additional EUR 200 billion in support of young people's job creation. The Member also asked about government measures to keep young doctors at home. You are well aware of the residency support program, with 2,500 young doctors in total being able to keep it at home, and the first year of residency has already gone out, so we continue with this in the case of specialists, where they receive an additional HUF 151 thousand allowance, and before that they received an additional HUF 200,000 allowance for 100 or priority programmes. We can see that while in 2010 an average resident income, when someone started their medical career, was somewhere around 130 thousand forints, these scholarships were now able to get it up to 400,000 forints. Obviously, these are not comparable to payments in England or Sweden, but if we look at how they have evolved in recent years, there is a positive shift. And this positive move can also be seen in the number of young doctors applying for a foreign work permit, as the number of young people who have applied for their first work permit abroad has fallen from the previous number 755, to 432, so it has almost halved the number of young people who are applying for their first work permit abroad, and the number of doctors studying abroad has increased. This is why the number of residents entering vocational training is already more than twice what it was five years ago. This was not an accident, but the measures that the government has taken. Let me tell you that next year's budget is also around HUF 6 billion, perhaps even a little higher, what the government is taking off the shoulders of hospitals, because from the second half of this year, the salaries of residents have to be paid not by hospitals, but by the central budget. Not only are they trained, but now their salaries are coming from a central budget. The conflict of interest between older doctors working in the hospital and young doctors ended. There is no struggle for status, and there is no need for a hospital manager or economic director to wonder what kind of older doctor's salary should be deducted from what he might pay for a younger doctor, since the salary of young doctors, residents, is paid by the central budget. This gives us confidence that there will not only be a higher salary, but more space for residents, where they can be placed, as it has often been a problem that there was no status that they could fill. I believe that in this rise, what I have said, it is apparent that the kind of medical supply that was missing from the period before 2010 is now appearing to rise back. So please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-15-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-12-15-100	Dear Secretary of State, I think that what has been said to many of us has been extremely reassuring, but it is even more important that young people starting their careers and the young people involved have the same satisfaction. I hope that we can continue this journey, and I am honoured to accept your reply with thanks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Mr. József Tobias, the leader of the group, has now come forward in order of business. It's his speech that's coming up. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-12-15-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the MSZP Group, I would ask the President to take a half-hour break, and during this time I would like to initiate an extraordinary House Committee meeting. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-103	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House that I can now allow a five-minute recess, because the Speaker has already called the extraordinary House Committee meeting at 16:30 p.m., following your initiative, which I would like to state as soon as possible, after the immediate questions. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Why? Reason!]] József Tobias!
u2015-12-15-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The debate on the order of business can be addressed. [[Intercoms: Yes!]] Thank you.
u2015-12-15-105	Mr Fraction Manager, if the President considers it necessary to hold a point of order debate on it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is a point of order debate.]] I believe that in an extraordinary House Committee case, Mr Group leader has not indicated the subject, and the weight of the subject cannot accordingly be weighed; I have only the opportunity to decide on a request. If Mr. Group Leader also identifies the subject, I can make a decision in that spirit. [[Intruder from Fidesz: It's too late now!]] Here you go.
u2015-12-15-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's never really too late. T/8196. I would like to have a hearing at the House Committee meeting, so that, both on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court and on the basis of the invitation of President János Áder, the Hungarian Parliament can return to the letter, norm of the legislation adopted by the Fundamental Law and complete the practice that deprives the factions of expressing their opinion on matters that are not compatible. [[13.20]] And at the moment, there is only one salad law - although this is already the second case in the last two weeks that has come to light - in which you are trying to make a decision, pairing up unconventional laws with each other, in an exceptional procedure. I would like to say, Mr President, that the Prime Minister's announcement was actually about the VAT reduction, which would, of course, be supported by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, but there was no mention that, in the meantime, the amendments to the capital's business tax, the local government's business tax and the change of the built environment would also be resolved in the same law. I'm initiating an emergency house committee meeting to get this off the agenda. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-107	Thank you very much. Mr Fraction Manager, during yesterday, Parliament discussed the bill in an exceptional procedure, so I have no opportunity to remove it from the voting order. So we're moving on. Sooner than 4:30, but... [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among other things: It was not submitted!]] After that, we will be able to hold an extraordinary House Committee meeting following immediate questions. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Shame!]] Now, let's get back to work. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Five-minute break?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats, make sure your cards are properly placed. Decisions will be taken. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: Five-minute break?]] However, before the vote takes place, I will allow the now tight five-minute break that I have already agreed to. However, I would ask my fellow Members, if it is not important, not to leave their seats, to remain in the Chamber. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It's been five minutes. Please take your seats. Again, I ask all of you to check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. We will continue our work with decisions. Please take your seats here on the stand. [[It's happening.]] Coming up on the European Union mission to train Somali security forces H/6444 on the adoption of a report on a further Hungarian military contribution. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6444 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 166 votes in favour, 25 against and 2 abstentions. Coming up now in the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic H/6445 on the adoption of a report on further Hungarian military engagement. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6445 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 171 votes in favour, 25 against and 1 abstention. [[13.30]] It follows that T/8157 on certain claims resolution measures to strengthen the stability of the capital market. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/8157/8, and its summary report T/8157/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/8157/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 7 against and 59 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/8157 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 154 votes in favour, 11 against and 31 abstentions. It follows that T/8196 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of economic growth follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/8196/6 and T/8196/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/8196/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 3 against and 35 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/8196 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 154 votes in favour, 8 against and 7 abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, taking into account the accession of Croatia to the European Union. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/776/6, and its summary report T/776/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/776/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 197 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/776/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 196 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following is the T/7392 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/7392/6 and its summary report T/7392/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Honourable Parliament accepts the Acting Committee T/7392/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 33 against and 29 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the bill submitted has been amended so that there is no provision for a qualified majority. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7392/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 29 abstentions. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Act T/6983 amending Act T/6983 and related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6983/14. T/6983/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments 2 and 3 and of amendments 4, 5 and 6 in the Jobbik Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is the motion of András Schiffer. The adoption of this includes Amendment 6. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 134 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 134 against and 5 abstentions. [[13.40]] Amendment 3 is the motion of András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and by István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 59 votes in favour, 133 against and 4 abstentions. Amendment 5 is also proposed by István Apáti and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 58 votes in favour, 133 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the draft amending proposal, the MSZP Group initiated a separate vote. We will decide on this first, and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. Dear Parliament, In point 7 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee is the 15th amendment of the bill. § 2 proposes to amend paragraph 2. At the request of the MSZP, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 7 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Commission proposes to amend paragraph 1 of this Article by means of a technical amendment. At the request of the MSZP, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 7 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 194 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6983/14. The majority of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the part of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 67 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6983/14. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted further points of the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 68 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the amended bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. The adoption of these will require the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will be drawn up in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6983 accepts it. the provision of amended legislative proposals requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the provision of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 68 against and without abstention. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6983 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 68 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. T/6976 amending Act T/6976 in relation to joint municipal offices. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6976/7. T/6976/8 and T/6976/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 2 and Jobbik Group's amendment No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 3. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 130 against and nine abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. The reservation also requires a qualified majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 34 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. The adoption of this will require two thirds of the Members of Parliament present to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6976/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly did not accept the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 30 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not adopted the draft amendment, we will decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. The adoption of these will require the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6976 accepts it. A qualified majority of the legislative proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the provision of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 68 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6976 accepts it. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not adopt the provisions requiring a simple majority by 0 votes in favour, 199 against and without abstention. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. T/7408. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7408/18. T/7408/19. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendment No 12 and the group of the MSZP Group No 9 and the group of Jobbik. That's what we're gonna decide first. [[13.50]] Amendment 12 is István Ikotity's motion. The adoption of this proposal excludes amendments 9 and 8. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 130 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by József Tobias and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 8. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 69 votes in favour, 130 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and by Tamás Sneider. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 134 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. The adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7408/18. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 38 against and 28 abstentions. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/748/21. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. Please listen, because they won't understand. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/748/21. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 31 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/748/21. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not adopt the provisions requiring a simple majority, without a vote in favour, 167 against and 32 abstentions. It follows that T/7394 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the registration of persons who do not have the right to vote. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7394/5. T/7394/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7394/5. The majority of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the part of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 159 votes in favour, 36 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7394/5. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 159 votes in favour, 35 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/7394/7. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7394/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 160 votes in favour, 35 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7394/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 160 votes in favour, 34 against and 5 abstentions. Now the amended bill requires a simple majority... [[Intercoms. For signal:]] Thank you. Excuse me. I didn't turn a card. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. T/7409 amending Act T/7409 and certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7409/15. T/7409/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 (4) of the LMP Group, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 4, 7 and 10 and the Group of Jobbik proposed amendments No 3 and No 8 and 9. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is the proposal of András Schiffer and István Ikotity. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 3. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 161 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by József Tobias and Gergely Bárándy. For reservation here a qualified majority is required. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 132 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by András Schiffer and István Ikotity. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 130 against and 24 abstentions. [[14.00]] Amendment 10 is the motion of István Ikotity. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 69 votes in favour, 128 against and without abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Adam Mirkóczki. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 131 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 9 is the proposal of Adam Mirkóczki. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 163 against and four abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 4, 5 and 15, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7409/15. The majority of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the qualified majority part of the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 45 against and 24 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7409/15. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not adopt the provisions of the summary amendment requiring a simple majority by 2 votes in favour, 171 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not adopted the draft amendment, we will decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7409 accepts it. A qualified majority of the legislative proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the provision of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 39 against and 29 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/7409 accepts it. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the provisions requiring a simple majority by 0 votes in favour, 170 against and 29 abstentions. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets follows a series of steps. T/7389. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's summary proposal for amendment T/7389/4 and its summary report T/7389/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7389/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 196 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/7389/6. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7389/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 197 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7389/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] It follows that T/7834 on the amendment of the laws relating to certain legal persons governed by public law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7834/7, and T/7834/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 134 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7834/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 57 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7834/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 60 against and four abstentions. The 2013 CLXXVII Act on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code follows. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/7821. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7821/8, the summary report of the Legislative Committee's amendment is T/7821/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 131 against and 4 abstentions. [[14.10]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7821/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 130 yes, 68 no votes, without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7821/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the single proposal by 130 yeses, 68 votes not, without abstention. The 2015 CXXIV on national accreditation follows. T/6987. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/6987/8, and its summary report T/6987/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by György Szilágyi and Lajos Kepli. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes, 161 votes against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6987/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes, 35 votes and 26 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6987/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 yeses, 35 votes against and 30 abstentions. It follows that T/7396 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain entities of the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7396/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7396/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 135 votes to one, with 58 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7396/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 135 votes in favour, 1 votes against and 59 abstentions. It follows the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. Act T/778 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7378/8, and T/7378/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by György Szilágyi and János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 yes, 131 votes not, without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by György Szilágyi and János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 35 votes in favour, 131 votes in favour and 28 abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by György Szilágyi and János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 35 votes in favour, 131 votes in favour and 28 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7378/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 128 votes in favour, 62 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7378/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 128 votes in favour, 59 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. It follows from the 2013 XXXIV on the organisation involved in the settlement of certain disputes relating to the design and execution of works and the modification of certain laws in relation to the prevention of chain debts and late payments. T/7830. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7830/5. T/7830/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7830/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 158 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7830/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 156 votes in favour, 29 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. The 2006 LIX on special tax and annuities to improve the balance of public finances follows. Act T/7831 amending certain tax laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7831/5, and T/7831/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7831/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 129 votes in favour, 37 votes in favour and 27 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7831/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 127 votes in favour, 27 votes in favour and 40 votes in favour. [[14.20]] Next up is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. T/7397. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7397/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for an amendment; and T/7397/6 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7397/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 63 against, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7397/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] It follows from the 1995 LIII on general rules for the protection of the environment. T/7395. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7395/5. T/7395/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7395/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, 10 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7395/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 180 votes in favour, 11 against and 2 abstentions. T/7401 on the amendment of certain laws relating to road and rail transport and consumer protection. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7401/17. and the summary report by T/7401/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed to maintain the 8th and 10th amendments and the 13th amendments. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is proposed by János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 125 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 10 is proposed by János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 130 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 13 is also proposed by János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 132 against and 32 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7401/17. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 38 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/740/20. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 34 against and 31 abstentions. Next up is T/7402 on the amendment of certain social, child protection, family support and other related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7402/24. No. 1 and its summary report on T/7402/25. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 20, Jobbik Group No 15, 16 and 19 and MSZP Group No 8, 9 and 13. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 20 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 9. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 9 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 15 is proposed by Mr Sebestyén Vágó and Mr Sneider. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 130 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment No 16 proposed by Mr Sebestyén Vágó and Mr Sneider. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 129 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment No 19 proposed by Mr Sebestyén Vágó and Mr Sneider. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 60 votes in favour, 129 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 13 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 128 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7402/24. A summary of the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 182 votes to one, with 13 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7402/26. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 189 votes to 1 with 7 abstentions. [[14.30]] Next up is T/7404 on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7404/12 and T/7404/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Article 4 (4) of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 4, 5 and 6 be maintained. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes amendments 4 and 6. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 136 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 137 against and four abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 136 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/7404/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 159 votes in favour, 5 against and 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/740/15. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 158 votes in favour, 5 against and 32 abstentions. It follows that the report on the adoption of the report on the situation of nationalities in Hungary - from February 2013 to February 2015 - H/772. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/772. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 159 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that, on the basis of a proposal from the Fidesz Group, T/7832 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sports in relation to the safety of sporting events. The decision and final vote will not take place at this meeting. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you, will you be included in a series of articles by Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, and his fellow Members, T/7825, on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 24 votes in favour, 167 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/6522 by Anita Heringes, MSZP, representative, on the immediate solution to the problems of the domestic waste management system. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 66 votes in favour, 125 votes in favour and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by our colleagues at Demeter Márta and Harangozó Tamás MSZP, with the title H/7668. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution in series by 66 votes in favour, 124 votes against and 1 vote in favour. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on the amendments to the law necessary to prohibit socially harmful propaganda financed by public funds by Schiffer András LMP, T/5326. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 65 votes in favour, 125 votes in favour and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles with the title of equal pay by Mrs Bernadett LMP Wind, H/6925. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 64 votes in favour, 124 votes in favour and no abstentions. In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, Since we do not meet from up here this year, allow me to wish you all a blessed, merry Christmas and a peaceful, joyful new year! I give the chair to Vice President Sándor Lezsák, and we continue our work. Thank you. [[14.40]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-12-15-108	Let's get back to work before blessed Christmas, please take your seats. [[Noise.]] Take your seats, please, dear fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can the papals count on you, Prime Minister?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-12-15-109	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Recently, there have been two very sad news in the media about the situation of the Hungarian food industry. One of the news was that a large store in Budapest, where meat cuttings and demolitions were carried out, was closed after the inspection because of very serious hygiene problems, and because of the lack of marking of the raw materials, and then, allegedly, after replacing them, it could restart. The other news was that one of Hungary's oldest meat companies was once again subject to winding-up proceedings in Pope. [[Attila Móring József takes his place in the notary seat.]] The two news is related to the fact that, while a large number of problems were found in one company, and they did not comply with anything, which is required in Hungarian meat processing, the other has four international licenses, all the conditions that allow the production of Hungarian products of sufficient quality are met. In the first business, I could say that the meat shop and the fishing shop were mixed because the bone worm and the boneworm were together - I showed you this yesterday about VAT - I'm only saying this, Prime Minister, because it's not a normal world. So what's not normal is that this business could be restarted, I think that's one of the problems. The other is that we cannot simply create an environment, so to speak, so to speak, that a long-standing enterprise can survive against such gangsterism, because they are most likely not to pay any public service, because after unmarked animals, I think the tax is collected from them as a maximum of protection money, but otherwise it is certain that they do not comply with the rules and the tax and tax rules. I am therefore asking, Prime Minister, whether you are willing to change the situation that is causing this and whether you are willing to help a business that is not able to compete with these gangsters again. I'd like an answer to that.
u2015-12-15-110	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-15-111	Honourable Congressman, The unusual situation is that I agree with you, and the question of whether the papals can count on you, Prime Minister? I say, yes, people can count on us, so the papals can count on us. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-112	Thank you, Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Haughty.
u2015-12-15-113	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I think we'll see what we're doing, but since we're talking like this, let me ask you another case. [[Defiance.]] One of them is whether the land for the farmers' programme is agreed that the wife of one of her State Secretarys bought serious land - L. Simon László's wife - with whom I understand they are in a community of property, whether this was the goal. The second is that, if it is true that there will be a sample farm in Mezőhegyes on about 2 000 hectares of public land, where 400 volts/new jobs will be created, as jobs will be kept - at least that is what Minister promised in the city - then why this model is not and why they will not create 80,000 new jobs on the 400 000 hectares of public land and why they will sell it, while it has also been shown that the Constitutional Court has severely limited the free use of such revenues. If you could just answer me that, too. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-114	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-115	Speaking of talking to each other, [[Defiance.]] So let's just ignore the little thing that we're not having a house-to-house conversation - but it doesn't matter if it's just a conversation and it's Christmas, so why not? As I understand it, you are talking about the fact that the responsibility of one of the State Secretarys of the Hungarian Government was also bidding during the auctions. [[Intercoms: Wife.]] Sorry, your wife bid. I would like to say that the word "win" in this context is not a sensible word, because it is not a lottery, it must be paid. So no one ever won anything from the Hungarian government. If someone wants to buy something, they have to pay for it according to the rules prescribed and mandatory for everyone, and if the Secretary of State's wife did so by the way, I congratulate her, she did the right thing. To the question of what we intend to do in Mezőhegyes and why our intention differs from our other intentions in other parts of the country, I will answer you this complicated question because it is a stud estate in Mezőhegyes, and the government has decided that it is important for the country to retain and strengthen one, two, three stud estates. That's it, we keep all the studs, and that's not the exact number. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what you said, but, if I remember correctly, we'll assign 3,000 acres of land to this stud farm. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-116	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, group leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: What makes the Prime Minister's environment rich? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor.
u2015-12-15-117	Mr. Prime Minister, Last time I had the opportunity to ask you, I was wondering why people in your environment have become incredibly rich in recent years, let's think of Árpád Habony, Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna. Is this because they are the most talented, hardest, decentest, or because they are in your environment, don't give up, God, or that they are involved in certain corruption transactions, which, let's say, the authorities are looking the other way? I asked you this question, this serious question, but Prime Minister did not answer, but he said that I should ask you this question before asking you this question, first I should answer what is true of the accusations against Béla Kovács. If the Prime Minister has asked me such a serious question, I think it is my duty to answer it, so I will do so, but by the way, Prime Minister, it would be your duty to answer such a question. But I'll answer first. [[14.50]] Jobbik has never received financial support from any country, Russia, nor will it, because for us maintaining independence is one of the most important basic values. However, the Prime Minister should continue to answer my question, because the question remains, not only does it concern me, but it concerns the whole country, and I would also like to propose, Prime Minister, how to decide on this debate between us in a decent and fair way. I suggest we set up two committees of inquiry. One committee of inquiry will examine the question of possible Russian support for Jobbik, Prime Minister, you will give the head of this committee of inquiry, whatever you feel free to ask, we will stand before the questions. And let us set up another committee of inquiry in parallel, with our permission to lead it, and we would ask a lot of questions, which would examine the richness of people in your environment in recent years. I think that these two Committees of Inquiry would be able to clarify these questions in parallel, and that your question would be answered by the Hungarian society and my questions would be answered by the Hungarian society. So I look forward to the Prime Minister's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-15-119	It is a good idea not only for the Members to ask the Prime Minister, but also for the Prime Minister in the hour of immediate questioning, but I am not taking advantage of this opportunity. However, I would like to make it clear that I do not recommend to the political life of Hungary that it wants to take over the powers of either the police or the prosecution. If I have a good understanding of your devious sentences here, then you are basically accusing us of corruption, so I would like to make it clear that I will not tolerate any kind of corruption, I have not tolerated it in the past, and I will not tolerate it in the future. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's a good massive roof!]] And I'd like to reassure you that when the government and I make a personal decision, it's always in the best interests of the country. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Read this...]] If you don't believe that - which I regret - ask those who once thought that there might be another choice; ask your new sponsor, for example. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And the accusation that the Prime Minister of the country with businessmen [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who is it?]] I find it a bizarre accusation. I can hardly believe you're doing this; you can't do politics, you can't run a country, you can't sit on a deserted island or do that. He also pointed out that the entrepreneurs who are supposed to be working with the government, who, by the way, you only referred to as a per, are getting rich. So I looked at the public rankings of the richest people in the country. Among the first ten largest Hungarians, I could not find Fidesz, even though we have been ruling Hungary for 10 years. In light of this, I find your accusation ridiculous, and I suggest that we talk about it seriously if you have at least five fideses in the first ten. I'm afraid that's not tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-120	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the faction.
u2015-12-15-121	Prime Minister, these gentlemen may not be in the first ten, but they are making very good progress in this direction. [[Viktor Orbán: I don't think so!]] and I am sorry that you did not understand the potential of my proposal, because this is also an opportunity for you to clarify the accusations, yes, the corruption charges that are made not only by me but by countless citizens of Hungary. [[János Lázár: Cleared!]] It would be possible to put the cards on the table: there would be two committees of inquiry, one of which you would lead and examine the possible Russian support of Jobbik, and the other would be led by us, Prime Minister, and would examine whether the richness of people in your environment - because we do not deny that these people have been remarkably rich - is due to their talent, diligence, integrity, or something else. We would like to examine this; I think it is a fair proposal, not a subtle proposal, and when the Prime Minister answers at this moment, not only will it be decided whether you support this proposal, Prime Minister, but also whether you have a clear conscience or are afraid. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] If you support it, your conscience is clear; if you do not support it, Prime Minister, your conscience is not clear. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-122	The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-123	Thank you for your good wishes. However, I would like to say with due modesty that in order for you or Jobbik to personally test us for courage, we need to eat some more dumplings. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Secondly, I would like to say that I repeat: I refuse to make Romania of Hungary. [[Dóra Dúró: Because politicians are accounted for!]] I refuse to detract from the powers of law enforcement authorities in all kinds of extraordinary procedures and other matters. Although you want to make Parliament look like it is, I can see it, but this is a place of legislation and a place of important decisions for the people, so I am not in a position to assist in such actions. However, I would like to assure you - just because we are a little tired of your constant accusations here - that we will not remain indebted to you, we will follow the principle that, as God gives us, so is your vow. They're full of criminals. There were criminals behind you. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Who?]] You're being supported by criminals. You're a persistent couple. I suggest you go public and reveal this. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-124	Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of "May Other" Politics, Mr. Head of the Group, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "Hollo to the Raven?" It's an address. The Attorney General has appointed Mr. Ervin Belovics Deputy Attorney General for his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The head of the faction says yes. Congressman András Schiffer has the floor.
u2015-12-15-125	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Well, it looks like we're gonna keep going, like, this week, in the government's favorite newspaper, there's an article out there. [[Interjection.]] The reason why you can't know - I'm talking about the Habony Communication, because there was a shout-out about which one it was - where Gábor Simon got that mysterious 200 million in the Vienna bank account, because Switzerland threw a lifeline to the former second man of the MSZP and refused to give legal aid. On the other hand, there is a Directive 2005/60/EC and a Directive 2000/642. a European Council decision on the basis of which Hungary also has a so-called financial intelligence unit, i.e. a financial intelligence unit, and this is none other than the National Tax and Customs Office under the supervision of András Tállai, the NAV, and the NAV should in principle have the information which the Austrian co-organ has. [[John Lazarus intervenes. But insanity in the ranks of the governing parties.]] In principle, the Austrian co-organ was required to identify this person not only on the basis of the rules on money laundering applicable to him and also in force in Hungary, but also to declare how this money was transferred to the bank account in Vienna. So my question remains: how long will it take for the Hungarian public to know that at all [[John Lazarus intervenes.]] Where did the former Socialist State Secretary and Congressman get all this money in this mysterious Viennese bank account? My other question is that it looks like the Hagyó trial is coming to an end. How can it happen that a procedure is being conducted, that we are about to conclude, that they are slowly putting a halo over the heads of Miklós Hagyó and his associates, that the fidesz accountability has failed badly, but no man has ever been asked to be interrogated by the investigating authority, and this man is none other than Miklós Hagyó and Ernő Mesterházy's boss, Gábor Demszky? How could they conduct this procedure without even asking about the health of Gábor Demszky? Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-126	Thank you very much. [[János Lázár: Good question!]] In response, I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich.
u2015-12-15-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, One of your questions is about the Simon case. Allow me to inform you that the investigation in this case is about to be concluded, and it will be decided in a very short period of time, obviously either on the subject of prosecution or on the issue of termination of proceedings. I cannot give you more detailed information because, as I mentioned earlier, the substantive decision will be taken soon; then, obviously, the public will be informed by the prosecutor's office. With regard to the Hagyó case: this procedure, as the Member mentioned, is in the course of a judicial procedure, and it is expected that a substantive decision will be taken at the beginning of next year. I believe that the prosecution has certainly not put a halo on the heads of the defendants of the Hagyó trial, on the contrary: they have been prosecuted because the prosecution considers that they all have criminal liability. Obviously, Gábor Demszky's interrogation of the case was not due to the fact that, in clarifying the historical facts, Gábor Demszky's criminal liability was not raised. If it had come up, the same procedure would obviously have been enforced regardless of the person. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2015-12-15-128	Thank you, Deputy Attorney General. In response, I'll give the floor to the leader of the faction.
u2015-12-15-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, The sad thing is, you didn't answer any of my questions again. What decision you will make on the merits of the Simon case is indeed the autonomous powers of the prosecution. The only thing I care about as a tax-paying Member of Parliament is that... [[Defiance.]] How is it that the last year has not been enough for the prosecution to solve the question of how this 200 million forints came into Gábor Simon's bank account. Since 2001, there has been a very strict anti-money laundering regime, not only in the European Union but in all OECD Member States. I also referred to the European Union standards on the basis of which the tax authority in Hungary should have this information from the Austrian co-government. Why don't you know that? On the other question, how can you go through a procedure against the mayor's advisor or the deputy mayor without even questioning his boss as a witness? I'd like answers to these questions. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-130	Thank you. The Deputy Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-131	Thank you very much. Then I'll try to repeat it again so that my answer may be more specific. Obviously, the prosecutor's office will clarify how and how this money came into the account of the person concerned. At the time of the prosecution, it is also obvious that the prosecution will inform the public about this. Until then, I can't inform Congressman. If you have information that can justify the determination of the criminal liability of Gábor Demszky, I ask you very much, Mr President, to comply with your legal obligation, to file a complaint and, in this case, to examine the criminal liability of the person concerned. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-132	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. Dear Parliament, István Szilárd Németh, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question with the title of Parking in Szeged. The Minister appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Szilárd Németh.
u2015-12-15-133	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A few weeks ago, from DK to MSZP, from Together to LMP to Jobbik, we held a corruption debate day here in Parliament, where the truth turned out that the current opposition was actually full of corruption cases. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] This has also been confirmed by the European Commission's six-point corruption report. In fact, here is the latest case, which is also linked to the MSZP, with the title of Parking scandal at the Town Hall in Szeged, in the local and national press. I quote from this article:. It is not enough that between 2008 and 2012 there were more than 300 free parking passes for a local transport company, as we have learned. For incomprehensible reasons, he charged a fraction of the market price for the certificates to the municipality, which the City Hall has not paid to date. In the process, there are two suspects, and according to the article, this corruption case, which is linked to the MSZP, can also bring down László Botka, the head of the city of MSZP. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I ask the Secretary of State if it is true that the investigation into this case has indeed been initiated by the National Bureau of Investigation in connection with misappropriation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-134	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Karchi! You have an account in Pope, watch out!]]
u2015-12-15-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to have Zoltán Grimlock keep the house rules, if you please... [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-12-15-136	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. We're listening.
u2015-12-15-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to confirm, in response to the questions you've asked, that the National Alert Police Bureau has opened an investigation into a probable suspicion of misappropriation. There's already been investigative action in this investigation. Three suspects were interrogated. Other investigative activities have been carried out, and I cannot now describe them in the interest of the investigation, but I can confirm what you have said. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-12-15-139	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr Secretary of State that in all cases the principle of zero tolerance, which the Prime Minister has also mentioned, decided by the government on this subject, on the subject of corruption, should be applied. I am very pleased that this principle is also applied in the parking scandal in Szeged. Just as a lesson, let me list some cases that have been made public here in Parliament. From Fapál László in Hungary to Ferenc Juhász, or from the Csillebérci case to the double murder in Csepel, to the bribes hidden in nokis and whiskey boxes, to Gábor Simon or the Russian-Iranian funds provided to Jobbik. And they also have representatives whose immunity has already been suspended against MSZP Member, Dezső Believer, and the Jobbik MEP, Béla Kovács. And for those of you who are guilty of zero tolerance, you have to act very hard for the authorities. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-140	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one is above the law. Those who violate the law must bear the consequences. The government, as you said, has indeed declared zero tolerance against corruption. But not only did it announce this zero tolerance, but it introduced and implemented a series of measures that would make it possible for Hungary to be ranked in the least corrupted countries by 2020. Honourable Congressman, It is strange that the opposition did not vote in favour of the laws that would have promoted these objectives, for example, the Socialists did not vote in favour of the Act establishing the National Bureau of Investigation, which was adopted by Parliament at the end of 2010, and this organisation was set up on 1 January 2011, the exact most important task of which was the fight against corruption. That speaks for itself, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "The poor country is a stolen country, or whose relative can we respect behind the legislative amendments?" It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2015-12-15-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! You've said a lot of amazing things in your speeches lately. For example, in his speech at the Diaspora Council, he again visionized the economic and military collapse of the declining West. Let's just say I think we can admit that he was reading a speech he wrote on a trip to Ibiza by Árpád Habony. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] There is also some solid charm when, as a prime minister, you show the way to our Hungarians living across the border, under whose government three of our countrymen left the country. But no doubt my personal favorite from this speech, I quote, is that you believe that the situation of the lower middle class in Hungary is improving. Prime Minister! Which movie are you watching, tell me honestly? Over the last five years, the situation of the poor and the percentage of poverty in Hungary has increased year after year. Today it stands at 32.4 percent, i.e. every third person is either poor or exposed to poverty. Over half a million people live and work outside our borders. I don't think there's anything to be proud of, Prime Minister. The Hungarian people, however, are not poor because of their own fault, the Hungarian people are poor because they are stealing Hungary for the poor. For example, there are cowardly and corrupt leaders, Prime Minister, who negotiate with 140 businessmen in Iran, who do shit and do business, while here, in Parliament, they vote in the law tabled by the government so that their dear relatives can rejoin the public procurement meat pot. My specific personal question to Prime Minister is this. Did you, with your consent or specific instructions, pass the law whereby the relatives of government members can fatten their bank accounts again in public procurements? [[15.10]] Please clarify, Prime Minister, whether this amendment was important to you personally or to someone else. If someone else should be nice to indicate by name which member of the government was the one to whom this amendment was so important. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-144	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-15-145	When the government decides to submit a bill, it's in the best interest of the country. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us ask the question of who is speaking here. There's a Member here who can't answer the question as to why there weren't rules as strict in your time of government as they are now. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They are much stricter...]] Why didn't we have such strict rules that they demand of us? Why could it be that, at the time of your administration, Ferenc Gyurcsány could have been a minister while his wife was the deputy president of the National Development Office, which decided on the EU billions? Imagine what I'd get if I let myself do that. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. John Lazarus intervenes.]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, Ferenc Gyurcsány's own company was able to purchase electricity cheaper than other companies in 2007-2008, while you doubled the price of electricity. Who stole this country for the poor? When all this happened, you were silent. Why did you do it, Congressman? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-146	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-12-15-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's probably why [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] Prime Minister, because you've been sitting here for 26 years, and I think you're qualified to not answer such a question, but to be a Gyurcsányenferencia. [[Interview from Fidesz: Answered!]] I think we should talk about this between us. I think you've got the wrong house. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: It was your Prime Minister!]] That is one of the very serious reasons, Prime Minister, that I was silent, I was not here, within the walls of this House, you were here. [[Interview from Fidesz: Common list!]] But let's be specific when it's personal instead of answering. Is there a stadium at the end of my weekend house for 4 billion forints or behind yours, Prime Minister? Did my dentist receive a HUF 2.2 billion grant or yours, Prime Minister? [[János Lázár: You could have had yours too!]] My gas mechanic became one of the richest Hungarians in a few years and announced last week that he would buy land for 1.3 billion forints, who five or six years ago was a gas mechanic and mayor of a village, or yours, Prime Minister? I think it's yours, so you should answer my original question, too. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-148	Thank you. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-149	I don't want you to have Christmas, but I want you to try it once, what it's like to have a stadium at the end of your garden. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] It's like there's a freeway in there. But if you're gonna make me do it with your accusations, I have to tell you, Congressman, [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] that you, as a member of the board of directors of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, have received about three million party payments from the company that is a state. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Fidesz. Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: In a year and a half!]] That's quite a party payout. And then you're gonna have to step up. He took the party salary out of public money, and now he's talking in the name of the poor. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It's called the Honorary Prize and in a year and a half!]] Are you sure this is okay, Congressman? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You're pathetic! That's not even enough for the plaster on Felcsút!]]
u2015-12-15-150	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long?" It's an address. This is for Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2015-12-15-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We can perhaps agree that Hungary's greatest social tension due to the conflicts arising from Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence is in such a state, and perhaps we can agree that over the last 25 years, regardless of governments, almost all Roma integration programmes have been dead ends and have failed. If you consider what the desired result would have been in terms of integration, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó is leaving. Lajos Kósa: Bell ringer, where are you going? Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Miss me, boys? The president's ringing the bell.]] Then it can be determined that all such integration programs have failed. And perhaps there is no discussion between us that this will not be any different without credible, responsible political leadership, and this is particularly true with regard to the political leadership of Gypsy. Until there is consistent, credible, honest leadership, all such programs will fail. It is certainly well known to you how and how the affairs of the National Roma Municipality have been going on for five years, and it is certainly well known to you that your personal appointee, Flórian Farkas and his direct circle play a role in these scandalous matters, and it is no longer possible for a day to pass that will not be revealed. I think it is also talkative that your minister, János Lázár, did not say by accident that although the government sees a strategic partner in the National Roma Municipality and Gypsy, unlike the NAV and the police, I think that from the mouth of a minister it is much harsher than anyone would think at first. I think that what characterizes Hungarian Gypsy politics today is that it is not possible to separate theft, fraud, lying, corruption and all other scandalous matters from him. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how long you will put up with this and what you intend to do to change that. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-152	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-15-153	I cannot argue with the starting point, given that, indeed, the Roma minority self-government has been characterised by ongoing in-fighting for many years - and these years include five years of our government. It seems to me that the parties pushing and fighting there are not very selective in their means. It's unfortunate that this is true. From this, however, I would not draw the conclusion that you have drawn. So the claim that the integration policy for the benefit of gypsy has failed is, I think, a strong conclusion. I don't even want to say that it turned out to be a success. What I'm trying to say is that we need to keep working so that this issue can be decided in the right direction. And we have a lot of work to do here. I think that our fellow gypsy citizens are subject to the same rules as we are, that their municipalities are subject to the same rules as ours, that the laws must be followed, and that they must work for the good of the people whose municipalities they run. We can't ignore that. For my part, I will do everything in my power to ensure that the law will prevail everywhere, and I will do everything in my power because I do not support the Gypsy integration program, which the Hungarian government has been supporting for many years now, financing and supporting it with a breast width. I wish you would wish us success. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-154	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, We agree on that. I think every sane person in Hungary is rooting for the success of the integration of Gypsy. However, I would like to stress that this is not going to work without political leadership, whether for the majority of society or for minority politicians. My specific question was what you wish to do personally about the National Roma Municipality, and about the part of the Roma political elite who commit these mischiefs. I would like to remind Prime Minister that Florian Farkas, who has not been under a small burden of responsibility for the state that has been going on for five years in terms of Roma integration. [[János Lázár: Na-na-na! Slow down.]] You've appointed him in one person, and no one else has the option of Florant Farkas in that regard. [[János Lázár: Local government leader?]] You can hold him accountable, but you can do it, and your fellow ministers and fellow Members can do it when there is a need to vote on immunity. [[János Lázár: What does this have to do with the municipality? Come on, you guys.]] I understand political loyalty, and in a manner of speaking, loyalty is a virtue to me. However, what you are doing in this case is more of an accomplice than a loyalty. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-156	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2015-12-15-157	This is a serious matter, it is a pity that we have two or three minutes of such serious questions in total, and we are wasting valuable time, but our conversation is beginning to taste bad, so I would like to make it clear, especially to the Roma in Hungary, who are now sure to pay attention to us, that unfortunately, in local governments, such - such violations happen. [[15.20]] It also happens in municipal municipalities. But that is no reason why, when there is legal proceedings against the municipality of a settlement, we should speak in the same tone as stigmatizing those who live there. We've just started here. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] talk about the gypsy council as if the problem with it is that it's a gypsy, and it's not. [[Interviews from the benches of Jobbik, including István Szávay: The problem with them is that they steal!]] And it is, and it wouldn't be that [[Dora Doro Doro, they're stealing!]] Instead of uniting, there seems to be all sorts of problems there. The responsibility of the government and my personal responsibility in this matter are not in my power to assume it, because it was just us who eliminated the conflict of interest between Parliament and the local government. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Interview from the benches of Fidesz: That's right! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-15-158	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "The Left is full of corruption. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2015-12-15-159	Thank you, Mr. President, I accept.
u2015-12-15-160	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Hollik.
u2015-12-15-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There's not a day that goes by that we don't face another corruption case involving opposition. Today's news is that Gábor Simon did not agree to inform the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office of his Swiss bank account. But we can continue the line with the recently convicted Ferenc Juhász, or with the mysterious MSZP black bank in Józsefváros, or with Mr Dezső, who is currently being prosecuted for suspicion of bribery. Of course, let's not forget about Kágébéla. [[Intercoms from Jobbik benches, among others: Clear!]] So it is no exaggeration to say that the opposition is full of corruption cases. And recently, another very old skeleton fell out of the socialists' corruption locker: the case of the children's camp in Csillebérc, which is a particularly painful matter for us young people. It can also be seen from the privatization of Csillebérc that the left did not start the corruption profession today. [[Adam Mirkóczki takes his place as notary.]] At the children's camp, interestingly, we find familiar faces. There was Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Nyakó or László Varju, who at that time played out as leaders of the KISZ, Demis, or even the pioneer association - now, in a way that the court considered illegal - this very valuable state asset into the hands of a buddy. However, the recent court ruling finally stated that the gift contract with which the people on the left wanted to steal the children's camp in Chillérc was invalid. Mr. Secretary. Although the court has made this decision more than two months ago, the state has still not been able to take possession of this children's camp. What is the reason for this delay? How long do we have to wait for Csillebér to return to her rightful owner after 25 years? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-15-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-15-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In this case, which dates back to the time of the change of regime, and I believe that spontaneous privatisation at the time of the change of regime and the socialist government activity that followed it can be considered as a key example in recent weeks, it can now be said that, in two months, the names of many socialist and DK politicians have been raised, even Ferenc Gyurcsány, who you mentioned, who was the last secretary of the Central Committee of KISZ, and one of his last decisions, as it turns out, was an invalid decision by the court to play this property. But there is László Varju, István Nyakó, former representative of Nóra Nagy, former party director of Klára Butor, then Péter Rácz, who were involved in this matter as well as in the Socialist Party. And in the last two months, he hasn't contradicted these charges with any of their statements. There is a final court ruling against Péter Rácz, which condemned him in criminal matters. In the last two weeks, these accusations have not been denied, nor have they acted in order to give young people back 4.5 hectares of chilibérci. There is an outdoor stage, accommodation, plenty of more than 1500 seats, football field, runway, pool, basketball court, volleyball court, sports hall, restaurants, event rooms, office and warehouse. All of this is illegally owned by politicians or former politicians linked to the Socialist Party, after the final decision of the court for two months. This will take 3.5 million forints from young Hungarians every day, because that is the value of these services. It is 100 million forints a month that these socialist politicians take away from young Hungarians because they do not implement the final decision of the Hungarian court. Therefore, we can also call on them to create an infringement situation for 25 years, and they wanted to prevent the truth from being revealed and the court's decision; now that a final decision has been made after 15 years of litigation, they should not take from young people HUF 3.5 million per day, HUF 100 million per month, but implement the final judgment of the Hungarian court as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-15-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Hollik has the floor.
u2015-12-15-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to a recent fact. One of the most valuable assets of the Csillebérc Children's Camp was the Csillebérc hunting house. This was sold, of course, in a socialist way, at a low price in 1997. And the 50 percent share of this hunting house is that, no, it was transferred to a Chinese businessman whose domestic delivery agent was László Varju, currently married to an active DK representative. The Christian Democratic Alliance of Youth recently asked Laszlo Varju a question. László Varju was asked to clarify his relationship with this Chinese businessman. Unfortunately, the Member is not in the Chamber, but I would nevertheless like to use this opportunity to ask him to reassure us that he did not use this businessman as a stroma. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-15-166	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2015-12-15-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Anyone who has been browsing the Internet over the last few weeks has seen the picture report showing the state of the camp in Csillebérc, the state in which the Hungarian state will be able to get it back, as they probably suspected that they couldn't keep it. They made as much profit as they could from it week after week, month after month, and after that they would return what they had played out of public wealth and tried to make private property, under terrible circumstances, by breaking down, tumbling roofs, crumbling walls, in perfectly good condition, free of charge. They have tried as much as we have mentioned in Parliament that they would have provided it to a foundation network run by former party director Klára Butor, according to the statutes of the pioneer association. Klára Butor and Zoltán Gál were the two who guarded the audio recording of the autumn speech. These two were the ones who, after that particular speech, took the media that owned it, and we do not know exactly which of them it came from, and which of them brought it to the full public. We don't know the price of listening to these people in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-15-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When can you get Florian Farkas out of public life?" It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-12-15-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, In recent years, the LMP has demonstrated a series of catching-up projects implemented by the National Roma Municipality and the Türr István Training and Research Institute that they raise the suspicion of corruption and operate with enormous waste. The political director of the scandals was also named: Flórian Farkas Fidesz Member of Parliament, Prime Minister, former President of the ORÖ. We have suggested that Flórian Farkas' position be abolished, because there is no need for a prime minister whose territory is subject to new scandals from week to week, suspicious cases, hundred million-dollar waste, irresponsible farming. But what we found out last time about Flórian Farkas raises even more serious questions. On a public recording, the Prime Minister's Commissioner said, and I quote: "I will be conducting negotiations tomorrow that will allow us to launch this mentor and cooperative program in concrete terms. The mentoring program has been launched. In the framework of one project, the mentors contracted by the Ministry of National Economy receive HUF 250 thousand a month, who happen to be the people of Flórian Farkas and the representatives who wish to replace the current president in the National Roma Municipality. They were also encouraged by Flórián Farkas to crush the assembly of the ORÖ. How is it even possible that half the representatives of the ORÖ are employed as mentors by the Ministry of National Economy? It is not only this scandal, but also the fact that state funds are being given to bribe Roma politicians to support Flórian Farkas. And what is this fine of 1.4 billion forints I just quoted? This will officially burden the ORÖ. Dear House, Who is this Wolf Florian? He's handing out greasy mentoring contracts to his buddies with one hand and punishing his opponents for billionaire fines. If it's not corruption [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then what is it? How long are they gonna cover for him? I'm waiting for your answer. [[15.30]]
u2015-12-15-170	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-15-171	Dear fellow Member, I have said this many times, if you insist, then of course you can create a forum for all kinds of individual cases from Parliament, but this will lead to unworthy situations. At the same time, there is nothing we can do, because we cannot go without saying false things. You have brought up this Gypsy municipal case, Jobbik's representative asks me about the Gypsy municipality, a party in whose ranks a man who is linked to one of the largest company cemeteries in the country and has caused millions of damage to the Hungarian budget. And then they feed the gypsies from that party. Are you sure this is what we want? Are you sure we don't want tests, waiting for the results of the tests? In this case, for example, there is an EU investigation. If we have the results of the investigation, let us look at it, and if we have something to say, let us talk about it in the light of the tests. Instead, the investigations did not even go on, there are accusations, abuse, and all sorts of attacks. We can do this, we won't shut ourselves down, we're not the MDF government, we're gonna pick up the glove, and we want to make it clear that we're gonna do all the tests, we're gonna answer all your questions, the results of the tests are gonna be made public, and then we're gonna be able to talk intelligently about these cases. And until then, I'm not gonna move anyone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-172	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Ikotity.
u2015-12-15-173	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going to explain the sentence I just quoted a long time ago. 'Cause tomorrow, I'm going to have negotiations that will allow us to launch this mentor and cooperative program, whether they hand it over or not. However, that fine of 1.4 billion forints for not giving up will officially burden the ORÖ, which we are very sorry for. This means that they will not receive state aid. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Prime Minister, We asked this question, we sought and named the political responsible because there is exactly the opposite of what you said: this catching up, this integration should work. And it doesn't work by spending these money in an inappropriate way, as evidenced by the recording quoted above. If Flórian Farkas is not responsible for this, as you claim, it is obviously you. I urge you to take action in this matter in order to enable Roma integration to take place.
u2015-12-15-174	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-175	Once again, I propose that the Hungarian Parliament should not take over the work of law enforcement agencies. All I can say to you now - beyond the fact that I don't understand the complicated thing you've said, who said, how, to whom, and what what what what; I admit frankly, I'm less capable of seeing than the members of the Gypsy municipality - is that I would like to make clear what all of our people, who have taken a responsible job in making a decision, have done, until they say he is wrong in some procedure, will always be protected. There's nothing we can do! You understand that I cannot move the leader of the Gypsy municipality from the head of the Gypsy government. What's that got to do with anything? Mr Flórian Farkas has been attacked a hundred and six times here in vain, and I am convinced - regardless of the outcome of the investigation of the specific case later - that Flórian Farkas has done much for the sake of Hungarian gypsy. We appreciate this work, you will defend yourself against the attacks, you will not need our protection, and I will count on his work and the work of every gypsy person you do for the integration of Gypsy until there is some legal barrier to this. So I'm counting on his work, and I wish him and all the leaders of the Hungarian Gypsy success. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-176	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2015-12-15-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Committee on Agriculture began its meeting this morning at 8:00 a.m. with the hearing of Minister János Lázár. As always, opposition representatives have brought their form: the MSZP has alarmed me, as always, that jobs will disappear, the countryside will become poor, they have been alarmed, as they did with the 23 million Romanians. In order to protect the interests of Jobbik's momentary bread tax, he practically admitted that they would do the same, they would do the same, only hope that their time would come. Dear Minister, Sallai R. [[Defiance.]] he said that the Hungarian land had been abandoned by the government. The question arises: Minister, how much land has been sold so far, how much land is the total area of these areas, how much revenue is expected from these areas, what does the state intend to use for the amount of land sold, what income has been made so far, what is the experience of the purse, whether the land of Hungary is in the hands of foreigners, whether there is a risk of this, and whether it is expected that the Hungarian land will continue for Hungarian farmers? Thank you, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-178	Thank you, Congressman János Pócs. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2015-12-15-179	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The programme for farmers has been successful, since nearly 10,000 farmers have been able to buy land so far. I am pleased to inform the Honourable Parliament on this, because I believe that this is an extremely important opportunity for Hungarian farmers, which also shows how important the Hungarian countryside, the welfare of Hungarian farmers, is for the Parliament, the government. Thank you for the question, too, because there are indeed many political attacks on the land sale programme by the opposition anti-host coalition. [[Noise in opposition lines.]] And it can also be seen that behind these attacks there are partly foreign interests and the interests of domestic large owners, who are doing everything they can - and the opposition has joined this struggle - so that the Hungarian land is in the hands of anyone but Hungarian farmers. In fact, the programme currently stands at 4,800 farmers, 2,500 farmers sold out of 7500 auction plots, and more than 7,000 purchase offers were received in the area below 3 hectares, where the contracts will soon be concluded. Thus, some 100,000 hectares were sold. Out of 100,000 hectares, foreigners won a total of 700 hectares on the bid - partly Hungarian and foreign dual citizens - and here the local farmers have the opportunity to exercise their pre-emptive right and these lands remain Hungarian-owned. This is provided by the land law, in which we said in the debate that farmers themselves are the most important protection in Hungarian lands, both with their land committees and with their purchasing and pre-purchase rights. In 2016, the programme will continue in the remaining areas, orchards, ponds and undivided common areas. The revenue, which is currently estimated at HUF 110 billion and increases the state's wealth, must and will be used to buy land. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-180	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Pócs has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-12-15-181	Thank you very much, Minister. I respectfully accept your reply with the addition that farmers send to the Hungarian Parliament. The Hungarian farmers say that they do not ask for money, they do not ask for support, they do not expect any benefits, they even accept the daily price, they accept the extra 10% premium, they take the bid, they just want to work. They take credit and debt. And they respectfully ask the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, with a straight spine, with a proud view to the opposition politicians ending the listing and the cull listing. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] When farmers are listed at government offices and in various newspaper articles, that's exactly the background of that tabloid listing. which once destroyed this country and drove the people who wanted to do it out of the country. Dear Minister, Farmers expect us to continue the Hungarian land programme for Hungarian farmers. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Fazekas has the right to a rejoinder. [[15.40]]
u2015-12-15-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I can see that some people are not even in the Christmas spirit anymore, but in the New Year's Eve mood here on a very serious subject. [[Intercoms.]] In my view, this is unworthy of the programme for farmers, an insult to the Hungarian farming community, and it shows how low the opposition has fallen. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] In this Parliament during the autumn, the opposition refused to say a single good word about Hungarian farmers. Hungarian farmers could expect nothing more from you than modern-day cluttering, downestimation of their work, abuse, disregarding the interests of Hungarian farmers. (Zoltán Haughty intervenes. ) It is apparent that the opposition was united in manure carrying; this was the most innovative idea after the bell they could show. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] In this Parliament during the autumn, the opposition refused to say a single good word about Hungarian farmers. Hungarian farmers could expect nothing more from you than modern-day cluttering, downestimation of their work, abuse, disregarding the interests of Hungarian farmers. (Zoltán Haughty intervenes. ) It is apparent that the opposition was united in manure carrying; this was the most innovative idea after the bell they could show. (Zoltán Haughty intervenes. - Intercoms in the ranks of opposition parties. ) But Hungarian farmers see this situation, they do not demonstrate, but go to the auctions and buy land, and so will next year. (Zoltán Haughty interrupts.) Next year is the year of gardening, by the way; I would suggest, Mr. Grumpy, because his nerves seem to have been disturbed by this land issue, go a little gardening, and he always intervenes anyway. The other day, you mentioned that farmers were reaping pastures. Well, I suggest you take a bite, garden, calm down. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Haughty applauds. Interviews in the line of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-184	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise.]] Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Where is the border? It's an address. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-12-15-185	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, For Bálint Homan, Minister of Religion and Public Education of the Horthy era, you would like to have a statue. According to today's news, the NGO has said that it will set up this statue, despite the fact that Mr Cser-Palkovics has spoken back on this in recent times. I was very sad to note or to see that, unfortunately, Tibor Navracsics, who was my teacher, who taught me that right- and left-wing democrats have borders where together they must curb the advance of certain extremes, and he has ordered 15 million forints on this statue. Bálint Homan was an anti-Semite. Politics for both right-wing and left-wing democrats. As a member of the government, he left the mouth of Bálint Homan: we must finally wake up to the fact that the Jew, even if he was privileged, and even the Jewish-born and Jewish-relationship person must be an enemy of today's government system. In essence, Homan participated in the looting of the Hungarian Jews without coercion, played a role in the preparation of the Jewish laws, which he then voted for, and suggested the expulsion of the Jews. You know, you're acting - and I hear Mr. Cser-Palkovics too - like you're not even there, like Fidesz has nothing to do with this. We know very well that they are there; they are at the Nazi monument in Liberty Square [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] there are, indeed, the double racist manifestations, the racist education policy measures. [[János Lázár: Racist education policy?]] And a lot of other places. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, do you support the creation of the statue? What do you think of the fact that you, who is a right-wing Democrat, are even raised to erect a statue for such a man today? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Public statement in Jobbik's ranks: Court decision? What's up?]]
u2015-12-15-186	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-12-15-187	I am sorry that the Hungarian Parliament has to discuss this important issue in the context of such slapping and chichi-puhi. I'm sorry I don't have time to explain what I'm about to say. I ask you not to take this personally, but the thing is that we feel that the fight against anti-Semitism is greatly compromised by the fact that it is regularly led by representatives of the successor party of another dictatorship. That's the thing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is a problem, because in this case, the Hungarian people are reacting to the statues that were claimed to serve the Communist dictatorship, and instead of talking intelligently about anti-Semitism issues, we are already lost. The situation seems that I am not pushing this responsibility anywhere, of course, the facts are clear: there is a civil society organisation in Székesfehérvár that has decided to erect such a statue. He submitted a request; the request did not, by the way, reach the highest level of decision-makers, in this sense bringing up any Member, I think, or any representative of the government, is simply not fair. But whether or not it has been achieved, given that responsibility in government must be taken on a political basis, which belonged to the head of the wallet, it must be responsible; but I have worse news for myself, because the political responsibility for the operation of the government must be assumed by the Prime Minister, so, in any case, the responsibility for the support given to this NGO is ultimately mine, even if I think that I am personally innocent in this matter, but it does not divide, it does not multiply. I am pleased that the NGO has cut this Gordian knot today, sent it back, or at least decided to return the money it received from the government, and thereby relieved the government of its dispute. Thank you very much for your decision. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-188	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi in return.
u2015-12-15-189	You know, Prime Minister, you just couldn't answer the question, but what do you really think of Bálint Homan's statue under your government? You know, Prime Minister, there are two kinds of politicians in the world: there are profiteers and there are value-oriented ones. The profiteers are cynical, whatever fits at the moment, and the next thing you know, it's the opposite. Value-oriented people know that the world is complicated, and they don't even try to lie to their own voters that it's not. [[It's constant noise.]] Appreciators form, create something, and change the world; profiteers only reap the credit and revive what others create. Prime Minister, please don't cross the line you shouldn't, because those who enter this path will be consumed by it sooner or later. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-15-190	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-12-15-191	We have listened with due respect to the opinion of the Member, and I must say with due courtesy that we, sitting on this side of the horseshoe, believe that we do not need to be lectured on valuable politics, political courage and standing, especially on the part of the successor party of the former Communist Party. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How many of them are sitting...?]] So much for the tone that taught us. I apologize for saying this to a lady, but I'm forced to say it here, because it's a matter of honor. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The list should be read!]] My personal opinion - if you have already asked me about this and it is a nice task to express my personal opinion on this historic issue in 20 seconds - is quite simple, because the Hungarian Prime Minister is taking his oath on the Constitution. The Constitution contains two facts in this respect. The first is that citizens have the right to set up organisations, organise themselves, make independent decisions, and the Prime Minister cannot and will not take that right. Secondly, I do not support a sculpture, so I will not personally support the statue exhibition to Miklós Horthy, who, by the way, was, according to the Hungarian Constitution, a political leader in a period clearly defined by the Hungarian Constitution, that Hungary has lost its national sovereignty. On 19 March 1944, we lost our sovereignty, and on 2 May 1990 we recovered it. We were an occupied country between the two periods; of course, there may be various reasons, quality, depth and other reasons for collaborating with possessed powers, and I do not wish to go into them, but I note the fact that a politician who has worked with oppressors cannot support the creation of a statue by the government and has collated with the oppressors of Hungary, whatever other merits he has. [[Lajos Kósa: Nor Gyula Horn!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-15-192	Thank you, Prime Minister. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Having confirmed the earlier announcement by Vice-President János Latorcai, I therefore declare that, at the initiative of the MSZP, the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee will take place at 4:30 p.m. in Room 37-38 of the main floor. I ask the factions to provide the necessary representation. Before we move on to the questions, I'm gonna take a two-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. When can the members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund obtain their savings? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2015-12-15-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Prime Minister's Office has already expressed its commitment to helping the members of the Honvéd Health Bank in trouble as a result of a brokerage scandal in response to several written and oral questions and interpellations. It is welcome that the Prime Minister's Office recognises the gravity of the problem and the need for state aid in relation to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, which has shown astounding insensibility in this case. However, fine words and gestured political messages do not help soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers who have lost their savings for health purposes. You promised for months that you would find a solution to this problem. On the other hand, until this year's last meeting of the Parliament, not only did they not present the bill for the solution, but they did not even commit to it, since the proposal for a resolution of the MSZP was rejected, which designated the possible solution and required the government to submit the necessary law. It is a very transparent excuse to refer to EU law and all kinds of legal difficulties in this matter. Following the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Quaestor case, it is clear that there is a way to help people who have been harmed by financial scandals. I still find it incomprehensible why the government is reluctant to establish the necessary legal rules when it is helping its own soldiers and law enforcement workers who have suffered unfairly. We are talking about 1.8 billion forints, Mr. Secretary of State, and I can now tell you all day what you have spent 1.8 billion forints on, but here we are not talking about a thousand people, not two thousand, but more than 27 thousand soldiers, military, law enforcement and national security workers. The problem will not be delayed today. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State when and how they will help the troubled members of the Honvéd Health Fund. When are you going to submit to Parliament a bill to help members of the Honvéd Health Fund? Let's not make excuses, Mr. Secretary, but a solution. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-15-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2015-12-15-195	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to speak on this issue once again, following a number of written and oral questions. However, since the content of the question has not changed, the answer cannot change either. But allow me to mark a specific legislative place that might show you the direction you're going to have to fight. This is nothing more than the European Commission, because the law you referred to, which concerns credit institutions and financial undertakings, contains a clause. This clause was not brought into this law as a result of the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, but in accordance with EU Directive 2014/49, which states that depositors of pension funds are excluded from the compensation of deposit guarantee schemes. As you mentioned, the government had a proposal to settle the Quaestor case, a completely different legal situation, in which it had to withdraw in part, as the Constitutional Court said that it could not profit, so in the case of the Quaestor case a completely unique accounting system should also be introduced. The government is committed to dealing with some 27,000 stakeholders in the Honvéd Health Fund. At the moment, legal forums are not yet in place. Thank you very much. [[Márta Demeter: Objection, Mr. Secretary. Find a way to fix this. Applause from the benches of the age party.]]
u2015-12-15-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why do you guys have professional, economic, social senses? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2015-12-15-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the complete modernisation of the Budapest-Esztergom section, which is extremely expensive, but still a year and a half long, and which still holds an additional, long-term torture for passengers, will not be completed before the end of 2017, many thousands of people will be angry. Due to the fact that the mistakes of the Siófok-Zamárdi section, which cost 30 billion, but which can be shown as a veterinary horse, are not responsible, many are outraged. The rail-friends and those using fixed-track community transport were also shocked by the intention of the MÁV to reduce the rampage planned for the following year. Although the original brutal slashing was made by the competent authorities, the intention of the leaders itself is scandalous, since the same utilisation and number parameters should not be used in the Rural areas as in the capital area. As more and more rural people are forced not to do their business locally, and this increasingly raises the need to transform transport into competitive Community transport, Mr State Secretary should answer serious questions here. Among other things, short-sighted financial aspects should be in the interest of those who go to work and school and have family relationships. Jobbik condemns the placing of perceived corporate profits in front of the interests of Hungarian people, so we ask the authorities when they break up with the threat of railway closures of the social-liberal era. After all, in the opposition, it was said that the actual savings in line closures and, obviously, in the case of cancellations were ridiculously low. We are therefore asking why, in contrast to the reduction of flights above the head of passengers as the sword of Damocles, they are not taking steps to create an integrated supply, rhythmic, predictable and mobility agenda. Do you not think that the extension of environmentally friendly, much less negative externality-producing Community transport, as opposed to highly accident-threatening, saturated roads, is also essential for increasing the population-preservation power in the countryside? Thank you for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-15-198	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-12-15-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We agree exceptionally: rail is not a corporate issue, it is a national economy issue. That's why I find it strange that you're suggesting that. Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has not removed a single line, and 11 of the 37 lines closed by the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, I remember. The timetable changes to be made twice a year and now in December are due after each period and served precisely the purposes you advocated. There were places where we increased the pace, some where we gladly tried to train crowded trains in the schedule because of an increasing number of passengers. We improve access to rail to increase its attractiveness. Congressman, what you're talking about is 47 flights out of nearly 2,900 flights a day where the number of passengers was less than ten temporarily, and indeed they have been left out of the schedule at present. This is a minimal amendment, and I repeat, the twice a year schedule extension has always been included. By the way, the funds saved here have been used specifically for the purposes mentioned and promoted by you. [[16.00]] This agenda has not led in any way to the dismissal of railway workers, and I am even pleased to note that, for many years, the railway has, in fact, been struggling with labour shortages and is ready to hire dozens and hundreds of workers, instead of the cuts that previous governments have been pushing for. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szél Bernadett and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Child labour in the Public Works Programme? It's an address. If I perceive it correctly, István Ikotity will ask the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-201	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A domestic researcher observed a shocking phenomenon, claiming that more and more families are forced to choose between sending their underage children to school or turning them into breadwinners at 16. In the case of a boy from Tiszaiga, the father of a skilled worker suffered a stroke and was put in a wheelchair, and the mother was also unable to work because of illness. The two parents had to take care of two children. In the family's tight spot, he decided to take the 16-year-old kid out of vocational school so he could go to work. The boy ended up in the community service program with his eight general qualifications. All of this has been made possible by the fact that you have reduced the age of compulsory education to 16 years. Children's workers were made of young people who were unable to cope with school and who were a chance of survival for their families in poverty. I think I don't need to prove what's more protective of decompression, a sure re-production of poverty; or what happens to a 16-year-old child who goes into the labour market without a usable degree and falls right into the trap of community service. In the report on poverty published in the KSH days, it says that in 2014, almost one in two of the most elementary school graduates lives in poverty or social exclusion. I repeat, every second! Do you really think it's in the child's long-term interest to be put in a dead end to community service? Do you still think it's a good decision to reduce the school age? They still say cynically that anyone who wants to study can still do it? My question is, are they doing anything to reduce child labor? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-12-15-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-15-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I ask you, Congressman, to look at the situation in a reasonable manner and not to make the government responsible for what is not the government's decision. The government has extended the social benefits system, and you know that those who are in a difficult situation get to eat at school free of charge several times a day, get the textbook at school free of charge so that their parents will not be burdened financially. How long a child is sent to school is a joint decision between parents and children. This is not at all the responsibility of the government for how the child and the parents decide in a specific case, but only in their responsibilities. Our Fundamental Law also deals with these issues in the chapter of freedom and responsibility. Everyone has the very broad freedom to do what they choose, whatever they choose, a great deal of help from the state, but what they decide in particular is not the responsibility of the State, but the responsibility of the individual citizen, and therefore, in such a decision-making situation, people cannot be bound by laws to one or another. This is what the parents and children or parents and children decided to do. If any other route had been chosen, or increased support under municipal aid, it would have been possible for someone who, for some reason, could not be able to get to work. We have tried to strengthen our defence system so that they can receive both income compensation and expenditure compensation, whether in institutions or in grants. We strengthened the budget lines behind the social benefits system with an additional HUF 5 billion in order to help everyone in these difficult situations. Whichever one of them chooses, whether someone wants to work, is more supported by the government, and we have already talked about it today, with more than HUF 22 billion and nearly HUF 23 billion in the job protection action plan we supported workers under the age of 25; obviously it is not child labour, as child labour is prohibited by law in Hungary, it is only possible to do work in the legal age. If someone chooses to start working young, the state also supports it. If a person chooses to study, the state also supports, but which one he chooses is his individual or family decision. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: "The interests of Hungary and the Paris climate summit." Mónika Bartos has the floor.
u2015-12-15-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! Last week, the 21st UN climate conference was concluded. As a member of the Hungarian national delegation, I was able to get a glimpse of the processes by arriving at the Interparlamental Union. Since then, I have received many letters about joy in a consistent way, and they report that the delegates broke out in a clapping storm, jumped, fell on each other's necks when the 195 countries managed to agree on the agreement. Pope Francis called the moment historic. Not surprisingly, the tension and increased anticipation surrounding the negotiations in Paris. After all, we were expecting the adoption of a global agreement from the Paris Climate Summit, which will help to reduce climate change and replace the Kyoto Convention that expires in 2020. We were expecting a document that applies to both developed and developing countries, a document that encourages the 195 participating countries to act in order to change their form of civilization. Humanity's current social and economic arrangements are not sustainable. They do not give us the opportunity to regenerate the natural resources of our Earth, in many cases to regenerate human resources in society. That is why it is important for mankind to jump over its own shadow and act together. The Paris Agreement may be able to restore faith in ourselves, but its true credibility will be achieved. Dear Secretary of State, That is why I am asking you what the results of the Paris Climate Summit, its successes, which affect our country, are encouraging us to act and are in the interest of our country. I look forward to your reply and thank you in advance. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-15-206	Thank you, Congressman Mónika Bartos. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó.
u2015-12-15-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Indeed, the Paris Agreement has fulfilled its main objective to set the best framework for the UN Framework Convention and to establish a new climate policy framework for the next decade, from 2020 to 2030, after the Kyoto Convention. The 195 ratification and signing countries have fulfilled the role that we have set out to play. That is to say, the warming of the Earth in the next period should remain below 2 degrees Celsius, and even here, a degree and a half of Celsius occurred as a possible intention. Given the fact that it is an economic interest group and economic interests, it is very difficult to find harmonisation in the climate policy of catching up countries and developed countries. But what's going very well is that this contract has started. For the next two years, it is up to us to work out the exact tasks to be carried out in Hungary as well, and to establish the three basic criteria, namely the CO2 emissions quota, renewable energy and energy savings, the tasks that guarantee that the results of the Paris Climate Summit will be achieved. A financing system has been set up, as we know, the most important part of all these implementation elements is to find financial frameworks for this. In order to achieve this goal, the Hungarian government offered two billion forints to the Green Climate Fund, and one of the leaders of the Green Climate Fund will be held by us, which deals with development in the next period. One of the most important tasks of the next period is to sign the instruments of acceptance of the Paris Agreement in New York on 22 April next year, so that we can take effective action after the ratification process. [[16.10]] We hope that this optimism, which has now been experienced in Paris, will last for the next decade. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-12-15-208	Thank you, Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Vásárosnámény is very far from Budapest? Or why is nothing happening to József Eötvös Primary School? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2015-12-15-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Vásárosnámény is, of course, far from Budapest, we all know that along the eastern border is a medium city measured by county sizes. It's a nice town. But a six-month ago, it was a real shame. A storm in July damaged his school, József Eötvös, caused 50 million in damage, took the roof, and significantly damaged the gym. It's been six months since then. It's December now. That school doesn't have a roof. Dear Secretary of State, I could use this comment, of course, to use this goal, which is called the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, to tease you, I think, with all due respect, but that is not what I want. I want this monster, which is meant to maintain schools, to change now, for God's sake, because if any of our houses are damaged by the storm, then we'll fix it because we're good farmers. I suppose even the municipality of Városnámény would have fixed it sooner, since the state of his own school, his good condition, is in his best interests. However, I do not want to use this comment to speed it up. I think six months and winter is a good enough reason to rush it. Make sure there's a roof at that school. I don't want to be demagogic, and I don't want to give an example that, of course, if there was a school damage in Budapest, what would happen, because this would really be an unreasonable confrontation between the countryside and the capital. Mr. Secretary, give me some good news. The Merchants will be pleased to hear that. In the hope of this, I would like to wish my fellow Members, the people here, Mr President and our guests a good holiday and a happy new year. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP. Yaroslava Hartyányi applauds.]]
u2015-12-15-210	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-15-211	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is indeed striking to see why repairing a summer storm damage is taking so long and how it could end up in such a bureaucratic maze as it is not simple, but it seems to be moderately complicated, and as I have looked into this issue, everything that could only drag the end of this work has come up here. When the storm occurred, the municipality was still the operator of this school, but it decided, as every five years, that the law would give KLIK the opportunity to operate, which is why, obviously, during the summer months, it didn't care enough to do so, saying that it couldn't finish, and KLIK had already received the institution together with a two-month storm damage, and that was when it started the procedure. He was confronted with asking for a statistical opinion on whether a building permit was required or not. You asked for this opinion, the opinion arrived. In the meantime, of course, the school year started, so they solved the placement of children in the community house across the street, where they also study a few classes of children. It turned out from the opinion that there was no need for a building permit, and then they started to conduct the public procurement procedure, since they didn't need a building permit. Technical and legal approval of this procedure has been carried out. This obviously doesn't reassure anyone who goes to those halls that they're in instead of going to the community center, so let's just say we're supposed to speed this up here, because they've been waiting a long time. Fortunately, the gym is in use according to the information, but these classrooms also need to be used by KLIK as soon as possible. For our part, we will give everything we can to the local KLIK leaders, and we will instruct them to proceed as quickly as possible, because it is necessary for students to be able to take possession of renovated and covered classrooms as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-12-15-212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "What do you think the Christmas of the rural people will be like?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2015-12-15-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Again, I'm going to try to get him out of the dream world of many manipulated statistics, and I'm going to bring you a little reality. You're saying that Jobbik is constantly spreading rumors in an environment where public safety improves, there's order. If that is the case, I do not understand what order a 17 - year - old juvenile delinquent is able to rob several institutions and then break into a blind old man who is about to go to bed and threaten to kill if he does not give him cigarettes. It happened on Dress. Also, a juvenile delinquent robs Alsózsolca, accidentally wanders into a sleeping elderly man and calls for his valuables to be transferred. Of course, you'll get a beating if you don't do that. It also belongs to your order that for kicking the policeman in the chest, there is only one suspended man in Miskolc. How much do you think that humiliates the policeman? If a criminal who assaults his own policeman can't make an example of the state, then what can we expect from a paramedic, a teacher, an elderly man? Under such public security conditions, a significant part of Hungary's rural population is preparing for Christmas holidays. Clearly, you are aware that the people who are stealing fill the chamber, so that the home supplies may drop, or worse, they will receive a beating as a gift. I kept up the rumors that were probably untrue. The crowd of young Hungarians working in hospitality abroad is forced to work through the holidays and celebrate Christmas away from their loved ones. According to polls, another crowd is preparing to leave the country in the coming years because it sees its future as hopeless at home. There's a shortage of doctors in the country. I would ask Minister when he celebrates Christmas in his sterile, safe environment, to think of his fellow countrymen living in fear and poverty and those displaced abroad because of the hopeless situation in Hungary, and perhaps to realize the reality and change his political attitude in the future. I ask you, despite the facts, don't you think there might be a problem with public safety? Don't you think that the best gift for the elderly would be a safe home all year, especially as the holidays approach? I look forward to your reply and wish all my fellow Members a merry Christmas and a blessed holiday. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-12-15-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-15-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, To your question of what you think Christmas will be like for people in the countryside, I give you the answer that I hope that all Hungarians' Christmas will live in the countryside, live in Budapest, will be a loving, peaceful Christmas among their loved ones, and will have all the wishes they have for Christmas, and all these desires and fulfillments will happen under safe conditions. This is why the police work, which is why the Ministry of the Interior works, which is why the Government of Hungary works, which is why the National Assembly of Hungary works. I would like to thank everyone here in Parliament who has promoted this important goal this year, this year in Parliament, because all those who did this have served Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people. As far as crimes are concerned, I would like to say that the primary objective of the police is to prevent crimes, since the crime that they do not commit does not need to be investigated, is said by the classic or usual reference to the classic, and indeed, there is no victim, there is no injury to it, that is the most important goal. Therefore, the police will join forces with the vigilantes, local governments, NGOs and churches to achieve this goal. But I would also like to say that the national police commissioner has recently ordered increased police control throughout the territory of Hungary, to all its settlements, precisely in order to achieve the objective of preventing, preferably, any crime or as many crimes as possible. What we cannot prevent, unfortunately, is our goal, and our aim is to capture and bring to justice the perpetrators, and the courts will make appropriate, serious judgments. I am asking you, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to support the measures, proposals and legislative proposals that will serve the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention, and I wish you all a blessed holiday. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-12-15-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The final question on our agenda is now. Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "How do we remember the heroic dead of the war a hundred years ago? It's an address. It is for Congressman Mátyás Firtl. [[16.20]]
u2015-12-15-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, CHAPTER XX Wars prior to the century turned the lives of those affected into hell on earth, but a war as deep and as socialistic as the First World War began in 1914, could not be imagined before. Between the four - year commemorations of the war centenary, we have the opportunity to commemorate our forgotten soldiers who have fallen on the battlefield. We remember 661,000 dead soldiers in connection with World War I. These soldiers fell for their country, so that we, the sons, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of fallen heroes, could live and prosper in Hungary a hundred years after the war. This number is approximately as many lives as the total number of Hungarians born from 2009 until today. There was no institutionalized and regulated grave care in Hungary before the First World War. The regulation of the eternal rest of the heroic dead and the need to care for the graves of the fallen made it inevitable by the mass loss of modern, mechanized war. Act No. 8 on the recording of the memory of the heroes who were now returning from the raging war brought by the Hungarian Parliament in 1917 decreed that the late posterity would be grateful to preserve the blessed memory of those who had paid their lives to defend the endangered homeland, and said that every city should inherit the names of its heroic dead on a monument worthy of the material power of the village. The memory of heroes must always be refreshed. I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State whether the government plans to commemorate the heroic dead at the centenary. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-218	Thank you very much, Congressman Firtl. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-15-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not speak out of decency how important what Congressman has said is. He mentioned the number of victims, 661 thousand. There has never been a single war in Hungary that killed as many people as in the First World War, and we can add the number of prisoners of war and missing persons, which is another 743 and 734 thousand people along with the wounded. Never so many soldiers have died, and there is not one monument in Budapest that symbolizes and reminds us of their sacrifice, their exploits. After the First World War, as you pointed out, various monuments were completed. In Budapest, too, the various monuments of the various kinds of forces were either created or planned, a few were created, a few did not come into existence, a great deal can no longer be seen in Budapest due to the devastation of the war, and then the remnant was removed by the communist state power, because he said that the First World War was the war of the ruling classes, and therefore the Communist regime cannot assume historical continuity with it. But it is our duty to do so a hundred years after World War I. I don't think there are many other nations in the world that don't care as much about heroes as we do about the heroes of World War I. This is why it was important that the First World War Centenary Memorial Committee, which was established by the government and the government itself wrote out an application with a total remuneration of HUF 20 million in order to ensure that, if we have not done this in the past century, after a hundred years, we should be proud of our own heroes. We believe that this monument should be the monument of the Hungarian heroes who died in the First World War. This complements the fact that 112 local monuments have been renovated in recent years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We've given you the support to refurbish another 50, and we're gonna have to take that job further. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But I very much hope that this proposal will come to an appropriate level, and that the 100-year commemoration series will not end without this 661 thousand of our countrymen having a worthy memory, because anyone who has sacrificed his life for his country may rightly claim the memory and grace of posterity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-15-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Member of the State Secretary, who applied for a speech after the agenda: Mrs.Pálné Veres was born 200 years ago with the title of the great figure of the Hungarian civic female education. You'll have the floor in five minutes, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-15-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Our high-quality education system and institutions, which have been recognised throughout Europe, make the good news of our country a worthy improvement. In recent years, the government has taken measures that serve the long term and provide the background for training students in our country. However, there is no future without a past, which is why I consider it extremely important that the roots of today's successes should not be forgotten. Dear Parliament, We arrived at the Jubilee date because on 13 December we celebrated the 200th anniversary of the birth of Veres Pálné Beniczky Hermin. On this occasion, I took the opportunity to commemorate the work and efforts of one of the outstanding women of our country, who is a great figure of Hungarian civic female education. Two centuries ago, women in our country had no opportunity to participate in higher education. It is almost unbelievable that the knowledge that is now one of our fundamental rights has not been available to all people. Despite this, Mrs. Pál Veres was so interested in science that from her youth she learned and informed herself, both in the fields of politics and arts and natural sciences. The desire for knowledge and knowledge acquired over the years attracted an intellectual circle of friends in which she played a unique role as a woman. She lived as an intellectual woman in a world in which education and spiritual possessions were only the privileges of men. On the basis of the general public perception, the education system worked in this way, in which women did not have an equal role. Even Imre Madách herself, a good friend of Mrs Hermin's, said in her chair-book, I quote: "The woman is developing earlier, but she never reaches full maturity as a man, she is easier to grasp and learn, but in the absence of a creative genius, she does not rise among the guiding spirits of the people, she does not bring art and science forward." These lines triggered an outrage and a will to do that accompanied Mrs. Paul Veres for the rest of her life. It may be said that from this moment on, the Hungarian education system has changed fundamentally, and at the same time, a process has started that has led to a new direction for women and, together with them, also in the lives of men. Despite the ideas of the age, Mrs Hermin recognized the need to give women the opportunity to continue their studies at a higher level, to gain a profession and to earn an independent income. Despite the real social need, the country's leaders strongly rejected the idea of setting up a school for girls, but, despite the obstacles of principle, material and instrument, it held firm and managed to obtain support in Parliament, convincing Ferenc Deák. In 1868 he founded the National Women's Training Association with donations, which started the work of reforming the daughter's education. One year later, the first Hungarian higher school opened its doors, providing students with foreign languages, trades and extensive knowledge. Pálné Veres's dedication is illustrated by the fact that the curriculum, the material of teaching classes, was compiled by herself. His tireless work and his activities for the common good have produced the expected fruitage, and he has gained more and more financial support, thus providing his students with more modern conditions and tools. The positive reception of society and the reputation of the institution were also famous across the country and across the border, so the increase in the number of people and the expansion of the building was increasing. In the early 1870s, a four-class primary school education was established, followed by a civic school education. Meanwhile, they have constantly increased the range of professions that can be studied at higher school level, thus providing women with safety and opportunities to work. Mrs. Paul Veres devoted her life to promoting women's education. The ambition, perseverance and strength with which you have implemented your ideas are of unprecedented importance in the fields of today's Hungarian education, employment and equality. Let us remember Veres Pálné Beniczky Hermin now and every time we encounter obstacles in our work for the common good. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.30]]
u2015-12-15-222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Szabolcs, on behalf of Fidesz, also applied for a post- Agenda address:.210 years ago, on the hunt for Szekler heroes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Heroes don't grow in every bush. You can't take heroes off the shelves of hypermarkets, and you can't even download them off the smartphone. You can't mess with heroes. Fortunately, the good Lord treated all nations and peoples equally, because heroes grow everywhere where he preserves, keeps faith, language, culture and tradition of the people. Dear fellow Members, There is a Hungarian people in Europe, the Szekler, which the Good God very much looked out for himself. Because he blessed her with heroes. For a thousand years, this people have protected Europe, they have always kept their oath, they have given their blood above their power to defend their country. 210 years ago, on December 2nd, 1805, he didn't say in Telnice, one of the locations of the Battle of Austerlitz, the Szekler knight or pedestrian border guard: Lieutenant, I'm busy, I'm not giving up my life. For a thousand years, the Szeklers have not only known but also practiced the main rule: Home before everything. Fellow Members! The past always sends messages to the present. It sends you a message about the vast experience of history, from which you can build your future. Today, in Europe, it is not a silent message, but a cry for word that is the message of the sacrifice of Szekler soldiers. We must protect Europe's borders. We must protect our culture, our Christian roots. Europe is in great need of Székely behavior right now. As they say, watch the border, defend the country. Dear Parliament, For a thousand years, the Szeklers have given their lives for the freedom of others, altruistically. CHAPTER XXI Even in the century, they ask only what centuries of tradition dictates, and rulers, peoples, and countries have written it on paper - as promises. The indigenous Szekler communities have the right to the resources offered by the homeland and cultural heritage. It's the only way to keep their families and communities together. The autonomy of the Székely in everyday life would be truly factually understandable, and I believe that it will create spiritual, spiritual strengthening and material security, the possibility of progress. Let us bear in mind that the issue of autonomy is neither fantasy nor extreme fad. It's the only chance we have to deal with historical responsibility. Dear House, The Szeklers are asking for nothing but self-government. What is the right of all the indigenous nations and peoples of Europe: self-determination, European autonomy. Blessed Christmas and Happy New Year to all Hungarians across the Szekler and other borders! Lots of strength and wisdom to fight for their survival! Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-12-15-224	Thank you, Congressman Attila Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs Jobbikos also applied for a post- Agenda address under the Christmas tree of Somogyország. You have the floor.
u2015-12-15-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are aware that Somogyland's Jesus is not very rich, yet it is good to play with the idea of what we should find there under Somogy County's imaginary Christmas tree. At the request of its government representatives, I am eager to believe that there is no such economic recovery or job creation in Europe as in Hungary. However, first, we should have a large package, full of work, and not only the many times that are really survival, but also, in good times, the return to the world of work and the resocialisation, but often only with public workers who cosmetrate statistics. 'Cause we know if there's a job, there's everything. But Somogy is the fourth worst in county ranking, and Kaposvár is the last in Transdanubia. My constituency, five villages in South Somogy, which has been reduced to multiple disadvantages, are among the ten settlements of Somogy with the worst unemployment rate, and Barcs and Kadarkút are in the ranks of the cities of our aggregating county. Not a very bright national record can be boasted, as Rinyabesenyő and Somogyaracs' indicators are first and third on the imaginary platform of the most tragic employment results. We would also like another box in which people would be given real public security, so that the evenings of the lonely elderly people in the cottages at the end of the village are not filled with terror. To never beat a retired lady to death again, a walking jackal in human skin, never burn a retired uncle alive for a small pension, for a small piece of honest work, for his small fortune. So that such a beast may never again take the innocent life of any young salesgirl who fears behind your darkened window. We'd also like to have a third package with a gift from the pay cut. Because it is sad enough that even compared to the Visegrád states, only 83 percent of the national average squeaks on the Somogy workers' accounts. And unfortunately, this is also true of average pensions. At the end of the month, the pensioners in Somogy feel the absence of one less St. Stephen. We'd be grateful for a fourth box where there's still a lot of schoolwork. Don't let that shame happen again, like it did in Niklan, Berzhenyi village. After all, the chimney of the boiler of the school, which had been renovated for ten million people, could have been renovated from the price of some of our ministers' very popular Silka jackets, and now we should not have had half a hundred children on the bus every day. I know we're greedy, but our hearts would be thrilled with a fifth gift package, where there would be not only a marked development of the road network on a propaganda level. A good hundred years ago, when he was in Mór Jókai County, he was horrified to find that such bad roads were not even in Bosnia. If you were to come here now, you would amend this by amending Bosnia as a benchmark to Albania. We are in the south, with all due respect, looking forward to at least reprimanding Route 6. In the sixth box, we would like to see a non-corruption public life so that the management of local government companies that rolled into a debt of up to and including a billion dollars, but still in suspicious circumstances, I would like to say, because of its abuse, we will never have to press charges again in so many cases that no finger is enough to count. We would also welcome the fact that a seventh box would not be for the large-owners, the small farmers who spread on thousands of hectares and the real-capped palms of their hands, but that you would dare bid, see, you can see that it would be possible to see your insolence in the form of a land-poor, but rather to bring a real social and demographic earth program to the many settlements in difficulty or 40 percent that are doomed to extinction. Unfortunately, it's a very long list, but most of all, this county, Somogy, needs a tree that looks like a real Christmas tree. This, the tragic demographic situation, which also affects the county where I came from, will be discussed here today by my fellow Member, Mr President Novák. So, there's a lot of things the Somogy County citizens need, but my time is up, and I really don't want to seem too insatiable. Therefore, I wish everyone a blessed, peaceful Christmas holiday and a happy new year! Thank you for your attention, thank you for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-226	Thank you, Congressman Ander. In addition, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the MSZP Group, spoke after the agenda: before the holidays. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-12-15-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would particularly like to address my fellow Members and fellow men with Fidesz. We already thought that this year would pass without a major scandal when some of the Fidesz Members would tell us, women, what our job is and why we came into the world. [[16.40]] But it hasn't passed. Unfortunately, it has to be said that before Christmas, public opinion has been ruffled again. There was a woman in this world who thought that she should not choose the way to get married and have children, but that she should choose the way to save as many people as possible, children, elderly people, patients, and people in need. This man's name was Mother Teresa of Calcutta. She may not have given birth to a child, but she saved a lot more in her life, a lot more than raising two of her own family, three or four. Mother Teresa of Calcutta had, like, eight commandments. This is what I wish for you, honourable Members of the Fidesz, and especially for Speaker László Kövér, with great love for Christmas.1. What you've built over the years could be destroyed in a second. Don't worry about it. You just build. 2. If you help someone, people will be mad at you. Don't worry about it. You just help the one who needs it!3. Do your best for the world. You'll get kicked for this. Don't worry about it. You just do what you can!4. The good you're doing today will be forgotten by tomorrow. Don't worry about it. You just do the right thing. 5. Honesty, integrity, and truth make you vulnerable. Don't worry about it. Just be honest, honest and honest6. Man is unreasonable in thinking, doing wrong, and being selfish. Don't worry about it. You just love your neighbor.7. If you do good, others will view it as a ulterior motive. Don't worry about it. You just do the right thing!8. If you have goals, you will have false friends and true enemies. Don't worry about it. You just follow your goals. His way of life and personality set an example for all of us, and he must set an example for all of us before Christmas. On behalf of myself and the Hungarian Socialist Party, I wish all dear citizens peace and intimacy, happy, peaceful Christmas holidays and a happy New Year! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-15-228	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Mátyás Firtl, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke after the agenda, with the title Civitas Fidelissima - a community of faithful citizens in spiritual and creative matters. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-229	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 December, the anniversary of the referendum in Sopron and Sopron in 1921 has been the day of loyalty, the most prestigious celebration of Sopron. This anniversary is the occasion for my speech, and the opening of the Sopron Fine Arts Company with a married opening on the second Sunday of Advent opened this year's Advent exhibition, where Sopron's 2015 edition of Sopron's books was also held by Sopron's audience. The two events are linked by loyalty in Sopron. Sopron is the most loyal city, so to speak: the community of the most loyal citizens. Their loyalty dates back to 1277 when IV. Our King László declared Sopron a free royal city for his loyalty to the Hungarian king. This city has shaped the city's spirituality and cultural life for centuries as a determining factor in its civic existence and traditions. The community of the most loyal citizens in all areas has created a spirit of perseverance and consistency, including in literary life, music and fine arts. This is why I would like to praise Sopron's faithful literature prices and the outstanding personalities of the current Sopron Literary Society today. Today's worthy offspring of Adolf Frankenburg, the 19th century. He founded a Literary Circle in Sopron with a German name, but with a Hungarian heart, a hotbed for the flowering of Hungarian literature. An outstanding example of everything is the history of the literary life of Sopron, so among its greats, the recently deceased writer Sándor Sarkady, poet, literary translator, editor, teacher, citizen of Sopron, and writer Balázs Bősze, poet, who for decades kept the Sopron books alive, which was launched in 1977 on the 700th anniversary of Sopron's becoming a free royal city. At the advent exhibition of the successor of the Sopron Artistic Circle, which was founded in 1897, the contemporary Fine Arts Society, the two artists always gave us a valuable, valuable copy of the series. Thanks to the editing of Sándor Sarkady and the publishing work of Balázs Bősze, the city received value and a credible cultural cross-section for decades. Their literature service is based on the intellectual-cultural field of both Sopron and universal values. Literature history, cultural history, cultural history, the seriousness of the yearbook, but the need for literature. Ladies and gentlemen, At Sopron's Advent exhibition this year, it has been proven that this spiritual force is still functioning and that it is driving the missionaries to action. László Zentai, well-known and recognized in Sopron, who has been a poet for decades in Sopron, and a writer Ferenc Hegyi, who was assisted by József T. Horváth as editor, has also been a poet in Sopron. Thanks to the faithful literature in Sopron, the bright chapter of the Hungarian literature history that has been written so far in Sopron can continue, which is valuable, but also gives strength to the struggles of everyday life, and it strengthens all of us in spirit. In the closing sentences of the opening in Sopron, I quoted from the opening speech of the poet Balázs Bősze a few years ago: as a creative person of nature, we are the creator of the creation, but we are the most closely approaching the Great One, the Creator of all. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So I wish you a blessed advent within the walls of this House. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
u2015-12-15-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr István Ikotity, from the LMP Group, applied for a post-scheduled speech:. Teachers would re-establish the free textbook selection for the benefit of students. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-231	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In recent years, several teachers have contacted us about the textbook selection. The textbook ordering period is coming up, and they are very concerned about the further narrowing of the textbook supply. They said that in many cases teachers can still use old well-established textbooks and related workbooks from the library or photocopying previous publications, but this may soon be over. In fact, parents can buy good books and secretly bring them into schools. Teachers said they didn't want any of the OFI experimental fabrications or the poor quality textbooks of nationalized textbooks. They ask for the right to choose a free textbook, they want to choose from a real offer. They know how to work effectively, what is best for students. They want education management to trust them, trust their choices. The LMP has already dealt with quality excuses for textbooks. [[16.50]] It is not just a question of mistakes in textbooks, it is a question of tenential quality excuses, difficult teaching of publications, general textbook editing issues. Let me quote an educator who has been looking for me:, Free sounds great, but those in need could have received free of charge or support in the past, and not just textbooks for loans. However, the teacher could choose from the older good books, and poor children could receive books that were right for free or with support. Now the government has humiliated many difficult but decent ruins, although they have to settle for bad books and be happy to receive those poor - quality books for free. Earlier, there was an opportunity for poor children to learn from quality textbooks, of course, if we get it for free, we cannot complain, we tolerate humiliation. It is not true that single books bring equal opportunities. On the contrary! The parents of children living in good financial conditions will buy good books in addition to mandatory public books and learn from them, while the public textbook remains for the poor and deepens the gap. It humiliates us, looks down on us, and pushes many of us deeper. But this is not the solution I think is to take good books away from the richer, but to give everyone the opportunity to use good books. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another educator who asked for us wrote, and I quote: "Restore free textbook selection is one of the key issues of education, one of the key issues of the effectiveness of teaching and learning. It's not party politics. It's professional. Teachers won't dare raise their voice because they're afraid of his maintenance anger. However, parents could work together to protect their children and for their sake. If they were able to be convinced of what free means, namely, how much this so-called freeness costs them, what the price is paid for, perhaps it would be better to get the government to understand, or at least to get them to give back a slice of freedom. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Someone simply round-handedly told us, quote, "In this case there may be only one goal and demand, back to the free textbook selection. We teachers don't ask for OFI crap, and we don't allow it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, The LMP hereby conveys the opinion and request of teachers to the government here in Parliament. We stand by restoring the range of textbooks and choosing free textbooks. Not only because the current limited range of textbooks, including the poor experimental textbooks of OFI in many places, represents a poor quality, and we do not want children to learn from the wrong textbooks. If only one or two, but actually a good textbook could be chosen per year and per course, that would also be bad. We also represent the principle of free textbook selection because students, teachers, schools are different. There are many kinds of needs, many pedagogical methods can be effective, not everyone can be taken into account. That's why we need a variety of textbooks. We trust teachers who can choose the best textbooks for their class. That's why I need a wide selection. They can be experimental textbooks, nationalized publishers, but don't squeeze out the others' books. If the OFI book is right for someone, then choose it freely, without limitations or constraints. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-15-232	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-scheduled speech: . How much air do you have left? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-233	Mr President, Dear House, On the closing day of the year, in Parliament's view, it is therefore important to analyse a situation in the days of introspection that will be here with us for decades in the sociocultural deep tissues of society. As far as the migration crisis is concerned, it is true that at a nine-month phase delay, but at Jobbik's repeated call, a good part of the Hungarian policy finally realized that a planned population exchange was taking place against Hungary, and we can also say that this year we have finally taken action, which, of course, we have discussed a lot about its nuances, and we will continue to do a lot. As I said, nine months later, a physical barrier was built. László Toroczkai's idea comes from the right-wing mayor of digging, and we are very happy that it has finally become something, and the projection of this, its positive effects can already be felt in European space, that Hungary's apparent renitential behaviour is now finding followers. At the same time, let us note that in many respects Hungary has been an unwarranted leader in Europe, what we have done, for example, with regard to registration, may not have been done in such a sustainable way for so long. But we can also see that, in the long term, we have to make decisions defining our living space, and we have to make them in the near future, because if you look at the government's side, whether you look at European Union sites or relocating, you still see that Italy would deport 306 people until September 2017 and Greece would send 988 people back to Hungary. This may not be called a quota, it may be a different name, but it is quite certain that Western Europe, its central countries, will find a way to spread this problem, and Hungary should use every existing protection tool to prevent genderideology madness from becoming established in Hungary, so that we do not have to create toilets for neutral-sex people, so that no one can plan anything like in Scandinavia, where they are preparing for the resettlement of 30 thousand migrants right now, to remove Christian symbols and crosses from the host buildings, because it disturbs the new homeowners. In Hungary, it is not possible to allow space for similar phenomena. I hope that the entire Hungarian policy will be able to create a common national minimum that can act hardest against similar phenomena in the event of similar population exchange, intention and preparation. It is also necessary to see that, contrary to this external force field, there is also an amazing and increased emigration from Hungary. This week there was a somewhat humiliating debate in Parliament as to whether there were 300,000, 350 thousand, 500 thousand of our countrymen out there. There was a Fidesz MEP who also complained that we call them emigrants, because they are European citizens who exercise their rights. No matter what nuance we use, in the history books in the long term, the political elite in Hungary will be asked whether he has allowed his country to empty, or if he was able to keep it, and then set it on a growing path. Therefore, we say that by the end of the year we will evaluate under the Christmas tree the small amount of what we have, if necessary, let us say, to reduce the VAT content of the new apartments, even if the government did this part of the better idea in a truncated way, because we would have made life easier for Hungarian families in terms of renovations and enlargements. We call on you to see that in these days, when you turn a little inward, you re-evaluate and analyse your long-term goals, and then you should see that Hungary's amazing problem is the loss of population, which is only topped by the tragic emigration, so to reduce the VAT on articles needed to raise children, in addition to basic food, because our aim would be to ease the work of Hungarian families where the third child, not the fourth child, is at the moment in question, but the first or second. That is why we can say that although there was a professional debate today on the tax reduction of new-built apartments, we Jobbiks would have put under the tree and put under the imaginary tree the program that, through a public-based home-building and rental-building programme, gives all Hungarian young people space, opportunity, opportunity to remain in Hungary and, in the long term, the chance that if they want to take on those particular children, they can take on them, because our historic responsibility is to get Hungary on a growing career. In this spirit, I wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas and a much happier new year for all of you! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Attila Tilki, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a speech with the title "The Skopje Parliamentary Assembly of the Central European Initiative." You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.00]]
u2015-12-15-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Parliamentary Assembly of KEK was held in Skopje between 9 and 11 December 2015. The Central European Initiative has the largest past and most Member States among similar regional initiatives in the region. On 11 November 1989 it was the result of a meeting of foreign ministers in Austria, Yugoslavia, Hungary and Italy in Budapest. At the time, the participants expressed the importance of economic, scientific and cultural cooperation. The organisation currently has 18 Member States: Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland, Kosovo, with the exception of the Western Balkans, Austria, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus. The organisation has an Italian-funded permanent secretariat in Trieste. The declared aim of the KEK is to strengthen regional cooperation between the participating States and to assist each country through European integration. Its Bureau shall vary on a calendar year, normally on a rotation basis. Hungary provided it in 2013 in the framework of the Central European Year, Austria followed our country in 2014 and the Macedonians will chair it this year, and in 2016 it is expected that there will be a Bosnian Presidency. One of the agendas of the Parliamentary Assembly was the opportunity to jointly address the unprecedented migratory pressure on the Balkans and Europe. I spoke to this agenda as a member of the Hungarian delegation, consisting of László Lukács, a better representative and myself. In my speech, I said that Hungary has faced the greatest migratory pressure in contemporary history this year, with nearly 400 thousand illegal border crossings since the beginning of 2015 and 177 thousand asylum seekers. However, the situation cannot be treated only as a Hungarian or an EU issue. In our view, the challenges posed by different routes should be dealt with in a geographically balanced way, otherwise the organized gangs will only reorganize their routes. Close cooperation is needed with migrants and transit countries. However, as the Hungarian Prime Minister indicated at the meeting of the leaders of Hungary on 25 October, Hungary is no longer part of the route, as the migration flows have shifted with the closure of the Serbian and Croatian green borders. We provide all the help we can to solve the problem for our neighbours, and we continue to express our proposals for a solution. For example, we helped the Macedonians with police help. According to Hungary, EU measures should also be the first to start with proper border surveillance. We support the ideas of strengthening the external borders. Hungary is ready to provide active assistance in this. We are convinced that the reception of refugees should be facilitated primarily in border countries with conflict. This may hold back the crowds that have started towards Europe from refugee camps in the neighbourhood of crisis zones, referring to deteriorating living conditions and limited employment opportunities. It is important to provide as much and more effective support as possible in the neighbourhood of crisis zones and to strengthen the asylum, migration and border management capacities of transit states. It was important for us to say at the conference that Hungary did not have to build the temporary safety barrier willingly and willingly, but we could not allow the masses of migrants to use the green border to enter the Schengen area. I stressed that, despite all other rumors, only the green border was closed, with the aim of directing migrants towards official border crossing points. The dynamic of the phenomenon is that after the closure of the Serbian green border, routes moved to Croatia in two days, so it is clear that the incoming masses are organised by professional smugglers and provide instructions on how not to cooperate with the authorities. At the annual assembly of the Parliamentary Division of the KEK, we adopted a joint declaration confirming closer cooperation between Member States on migration issues. The countries of the Western Balkans and the EU Member States must be continuously consulted and the importance of regional cooperation and its role in economic development in the region has been emphasised. We underlined that cross-border developments help good neighbourly relations, bring local governments and people closer together and promote the European integration of the Balkan countries. I would also like to wish everyone a blessed, peaceful, merry Christmas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-15-236	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Péter Ágh, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of "Smoothness" of 750 years. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-237	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The President of the National Assembly, László Kövér, together, remembered in Simasáság that the settlement has a history of 750 years. In the central part of the Répce plain, the confluence of the Metropolitan and Pós stream, the village organized a celebration that was worthy of the centuries passed. 1265 was the year when Sagho was first mentioned in a diploma as a queen's estate. As we read in the village's own description of itself, the village had several names in its history. From 1338 the village was called the Church, indicating that it had a church. Royal servants lived here, who served their service obligation by baking and baking bread, as the settlement was called the Grilling Pulverity in 1378, and in 1597 the Breadcake in 1597. In 1458-59 Sopron County's legislative meeting took place here. From 1357 comes the first mention of Simahaza as Simonhaza. In the late 1600s, the smaller public families were replaced by important families, the Festetics. They have the name of rebuilding the entire structure of the village. The Tolna Festetics have given the nation many excellent patriots, who have done significant things in the history of our country. Some of them were born in Sag, and some of them are buried here. After moving to Keszthely, the estate was sold in 1840 to the related Széchenyi. From 1874 to 1916 the Prince Hohenlohe-Waldenburg became the owner of the family. In the meantime, from 1907 the town received the name Supremacy, and at the end of the 20s the name Simahaza and Supremacy was established by unifying today's Plainness. From 1929, Brunó Eörsi Balogh owned the estate, and then Bálint Varga became a timber trader in Kőszeg. Since 1945, the castle and buildings were nationalized. During the decades of communism, the terror also reached Simality: in 1953, four people were executed from among the villagers on trumped-up charges and seven people were imprisoned for many years. They put families on the street, tear them apart, destroy friendships. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI In the 18th century, Pacity views the future with confidence and constructive intentions, but also prides itself on the values of the past. They don't forget about the Festetics, the great moments of his story, and they don't forget about the victims. Mayor László Molnár put it this way at the 750th anniversary ceremony:. In the world of today's value crisis, few people realize what it is like to be citizens of a village where human values do not reach back for one or two lifetimes, but for 750 years. The legacy of historical roots and predecessors must fill us with great pride, today's smoothness. Don't look for the 750-year anniversary day in the calendar. We look for it in our hearts; it is an invisible celebration when we remember our history, our ancestors, our traditions. Let's take out the pictures, the stories, and talk about them, let's make it different from everyday life. The memory cannot be packaged, it cannot be labeled, yet it can be attributed to its existence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So this is how the first man of Coolness spoke. In agreement with László Molnár, I wish that the smoothies of the future will successfully meet the challenges of the future by drawing strength from the past. Happy birthday to all citizens of the settlement. Blessed Christmas, Happy New Year to them and all Hungarians in Vas County and all over the world. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-15-238	Thank you, Congressman. Lajos Rig from Jobbik's group also applied for an after-the-meeting speech: the underworld of education and the campus professor. Orbital fraud, Sümegen? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-15-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, By the way of my speech after the agenda, the media has come to light these days and we have discovered some nonsense that, in my opinion, is worth a few sentences here in the House. We have, of course, sent the questions that are discussed here to the Ministry, and we are waiting for answers, but not just for us, but also for the people who live there, and also for the leaders of the settlements. This deception originated from a so - called future universe. The inventor of the future universe is the Association of Autonomous Trials of the Order of the Order of the Knights of Malta of Jerusalem, which has nothing to do with the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service. [[17.10]] Among other things, György Popper distributed the organization in Hungary, which was in 2003. Among others, György Hunvald and Andor Schmuck appeared in the membership. For example, the organization is funded by Matolcsy foundations. This is also very interesting. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement at the time that it was explicitly dissociated from this rule of law. This order of knights founded a so-called future university - Pro Deo State University, PDSU - whose dean is called Dr. Ferenc Kertész-Bakos, whose name is associated with several scandals, such as the. Where is the diploma? So this is the order of standing that sustains the PDSU, which created the future universe project. How do we get to Sümeg? In recent years, Kertész-Bakos has visited municipalities several times with ideas for setting up universities; the attempt was a common feature of the intention to acquire selected properties. PDSU wanted to start a productive folk college in Sátoraljaújhely for the first time. Then came Vác, where they wanted to set up a university center under the name of a knowledge town, in an unused mall. The name of the John Henry Newman Institute has already been found here, which, according to their statements, worked under the wings of Danubius University in Slovakia. It was planned to create a multifunctional Christian university campus, with an investment of 5.5 billion. Since the mayor of Vác, Attila Fördős, did not approve of the case, the Newman Institute attacked him in a statement. He didn't go unanswered, the mayor of Vác didn't let himself go, and he reacted to those baseless accusations again. And interestingly, this school moved out of there, found its place cooled down. Later the news appeared that they wanted to set up a similar institution in Pécs, also called a future university, in the area of the former leather factory, where its headquarters were registered, in cooperation with the University of Danubius in Slovakia. The University of Pécs has strongly denied their relationship with the future university project. The Parish Diocese of Pécs also stated that neither the diocese nor the Hungarian Catholic Church had anything to do with the Christian-inspired John Henry Newman future university project, and that the person who initiated it was not known in Hungarian or international scientific circles. This is how the future university project reached Sümeg, where thanks to the concept already published in the Higher Education Act, the Wekerle Sándor Business College wanted to create their community colleges with the help of the Wekerle Business College. The mayor issued a statement stating that Sümegen will be a media-educated higher education related to the initial economics of the Wekerle Sándor Business College in Budapest - project managers, management and marketing training will start in September 2015. I would add that the implementing government regulation governing their establishment only entered into force on 27 November 2015. He said that this would be one of the first so-called community colleges to open their doors under the new Higher Education Act. The signing took place on 29 June at the Town Hall of Sümeg, and John Henry Newman Education Center Ltd. was under execution as one of the maintainers of the community college in Sümeg. There are a lot of things I can tell you, but unfortunately, my timeframe is very short. What I said at the beginning of my speech, these questions were sent to both the Education Office and the Ministry. I trust that we will get a meaningful response and that the necessary measures will be taken. After that, the only thing left to do with the coming of the holidays is to wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas holiday and a happy New Year. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-240	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. After the agenda, Mr.Előd Novák of the Jobbik Group applied for a post- Agenda address:. What nationality will Hungary's first-born be in 2016? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. President Novak, right-hand congressman.
u2015-12-15-241	Dear Parliament, The country is preparing for the biggest birth celebration for Christmas, because we are still Christian and Hungary, but if trends continue, it is possible that by the end of the century Hungarians will be in minority in their own country. 60 percent of 30-year-old women are already childless, which is also a problem because health problems increase exponentially in parallel to the mother's age, such as fertility already considered as a population disease or Down's disease, so the sooner the better. And after all, it is no wonder that 40 - year - olds already have 40 percent of women without children. And if these trends continue, in the not-so-distant future, most women will never experience, experience the most beautiful profession of women, motherhood. The majority of women, according to paper form, will not have any children in Hungary in the future, indeed. Although the news is about 1.4 against the minimum necessary fertility rate of 2.1 for the survival of Hungarians, let us add that in fact it includes groups registered as nationalities and minorities, which, even if they are part of the Hungarian nation through their possible dual-triple identity - as I have Croatian ancestors, I have Croatian ancestors going back many hundred years - but it must be said that today in Hungary, without the population explosion of Gypsyism, if we rule out that, in fact, there is a certain rate of fertility around 1 for which unfortunately there is no official data. All we know is that Béla Hell is a constitutional judge in his excellent book because he has been writing years ago, that Gypsyism is doubling from generation to generation, while, let's add, Hungarians are halving, as the number of children per Hungarian woman is already around 1 and below 1. At the same time, as an economic refugee, nearly 1 million Hungarian people of active age and working Hungarian people went to the West. And if we consider the emigration, the ageing society, the population explosion of Roma and the distortion of the proportion of supporters and dependants due to these three reasons, Hungary is threatened not only by the pension system, but also by the whole social security and the collapse of public finances. So being a minority in our own country by the end of the century is only one of the national strategic threats. The other is that whatever country is going to be here, such an ageing, emigrating and living with the population explosion of Gypsy society will be completely inoperable if the current demographic trends are not changed by the current government. That is why Jobbik was so brave to say in his program that, besides many other problems, what is the biggest problem of Hungarians. Not one of the biggest problems, but the biggest problem is the catastrophic demographic process, the death of the nation we're heading towards. Of course, Hungarians are not only at risk of extinction, for for example, in the title of one of the mainstream news, we read that extinction threatens the great white shark - the title of the article - and elsewhere we can see the white lion or the white pheasant ringing the alarm bell of conservationists. However, I believe that it is my duty, even as Chairman of the Parliament's Population Sub-Committee, to draw attention to the dying state of the white man. Of course, if we are afraid of the cheap accusation of racism, then we should only worry, say, about the white shark, but I am not afraid of the cheap accusations, except of the white shark or the white lion, so we do have to ring the bell. We are talking about a Europe-wide problem when it comes to dealing with immigrants, and we are also talking about the fact that the current government, contrary to all the contrary rumors, is thinking about resettlement of immigrants, because when, in the summer, the Minister of National Economy says that 59 000 immigrants are allowed to work, we have not yet fully understood what we are talking about. However, now that hundreds of millions of HUF government applications have been launched to encourage migrants' business activities, it is clear what the government is really playing for behind the words. That is why I would like to draw the government's attention to the need for radical change. [[17.20]] Finally, as the last speaker of this year's Parliament, I would like to wish you all a happy, blessed Christmas and a better future in general in a Christian and Hungarian country. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-15-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 15 February. I would like to thank you myself for your year-round work. This day was also a day of wishes and good wishes. Allow me to welcome, on behalf of all my fellow Members, all those who have followed our work and also those who are helping us in the constituency, in the House of Representatives and here at one of the most beautiful jobs in the world every day. So thank you to your colleagues for your work, and we wish them, as well as their families, a blessed, peaceful Christmas and a happy new year. The meeting's closed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[The meeting ended at 5:21 p.m.]]
