u2015-11-09-0	Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Moring József and Mr Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Let us begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, then from noon to 2:30, then we will have an hour of immediate questions and answers from about 1:30 to 3:30, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, I declare that, in accordance with our adopted agenda, T/6326 amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 The final vote on the legislative proposal No.3 will not take place at our meeting today, as Parliament accepted the proposal on Tuesday. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of the National Minimum. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-11-09-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that the future of all nations will be our children, our country will be like the present and life of our children in it: if they live in poverty, then the country will also be poor, if they live in bad conditions, then the country will live in bad conditions. I think that there is no debate in Hungary today that the scale and the amount of poverty has also increased. It is uncanny that poverty in children in recent years is constantly increasing. According to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and other recognized research, today there are nearly 50 thousand children who are permanently starving in Hungary and more than 200,000 children who are temporarily deprived. The data from the KSH show that the proportion of children living in poverty has increased almost continuously in recent years, and one in four children is now living in poverty. Research also shows that 51 percent of large families live in poverty and 31 percent live in poverty in single parents. Today, 34 out of 100 people in poverty are young or young. The reason for this is in fact the result of a misguided and bad economic policy and the fragmented state of the social care system. Some countries, of course, are able to function successfully in the midst of such a great deal of hunger and mass deprivation, in wildlife capitalism, this is Asia, but we live in Europe, but in Europe, the view is that children should be taken care of, children have values, and not least children's rights, rights that do not make them less, but, by virtue of their special nature, oblige us all in the present to make their fate better. Therefore, the elimination of child hunger is our common national cause, not a party political issue, not word magic, not a field of political battles, but I think that the national minimum, the social minimum in which we are all responsible, regardless of whether we are talking about the role of a governing party or opposition party. Thinking and caring for children is essentially the responsibility of parents, said Minister Zoltán Balog. Yes, it belongs to parents who have been living worse and worse in Hungary over the last five years because of their bad economic policies. It would be best for everyone in this country to make a living on salaries, and for parents to care for their children properly. However, this social minimum is needed today because there are more and more poor children, because parents are becoming less and less able to support their own families, which is preceded by bad governance, which makes their lives, their everyday lives difficult, and changing this is the responsibility of the government. Help immediately, help together children who, according to research, are in increasing numbers in Hungary today, and continue a government policy in which Hungarian parents can make a living on their salaries, have jobs and support their families. There is no need to accept poverty and to sit still and politicalise with a calm conscience, especially when it is a minister, because poverty must be eliminated. For us, this is above all, and I do not think that there can be a party political position in this matter. I respectfully ask the Parliament to put on the agenda the issue of child hunger, the social minimum from which the governing parties have withdrawn in the last few days. Don't look where the proposal comes from. Look at it, it's about reality. So we have to do it together so that our children do not starve, that they are in heated homes, and that they receive warm food not only at the school cafeteria, but also at Christmas and on holiday, at least three times a day. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-09-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Mr Group Leader, allow me to share with you a quote on the social sensitivity of the MSZP. I quote literally: in 2008 Hungary was the only state affected by a crisis, which didn't cross anything at all, not a single straw of matches, so that something would happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There has never been a country like this in Europe. This quote does not come from pro-government politicians, this quote comes from Zsuzsa Ferge, Zsuzsa Ferge issued this inadequate certificate to the Hungarian Socialist Party from social sensitivity at the time. [[József Tobias: What does that have to do with anything?]] when you were on the government. [[But it's 2015, isn't it?]] [[11.10]] He said this opinion a year ago that in 2008 there was no other government in Europe who would have left the losers of the crisis as much as the MSZP-SZDSZ government did then. The issue of poverty, in some ways, seems to be avoided by the MSZP when it is on the government, there may also be political tactics in this, as many say that if many people live in poverty, the MSZP can obtain votes with its aid policy there. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Is that what you're saying?]] There was an example of this in the '90s. On the other hand, they like to make party decisions in opposition on how to combat poverty. We remember, about four years ago, in the previous cycle, when you started the hunger procession, and that Simon Gábor was on the verge of the hunger procession, who was allowed to carry 200 million forints of bank statements in his pocket. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] This was therefore the credibility of the Socialist Party, which was both rebutted by the hunger process itself and by Zsuzsa Ferge's expert opinion. On the other hand, during the Fidesz-KDNP period, we sought to provide as many people as possible with jobs so that parents could feed or clothe children with their own wages. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] You know as well as I do that 555 thousand more people are working now than they were working five years ago. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] For them, we trust that giving children a suitable quality of food is no longer a problem. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] As regards the national minimum initiative itself, honourable Member, you know very well, you just forgot to say here in your speech that it was precisely the government that considered this issue so important in relation to the issue of child hunger that it gave the Arena to civil organisers, in the very majority of the time, absolutely free of charge, to draw the attention of society and to the importance and importance of dealing with this issue. I do not recall that during their eight-year government, the socialists would have given a free Arena Day for a similar purpose, that there, after a day of preparation, there was 12 hours of concerts, unfortunately with rather thin interest, but they could draw attention to why it is important to deal with the issue of hunger for children. You may remember that Népszabadság itself reported on the front page that the government gave the arena free of charge for the national minimum, but unfortunately very few people left, very few people participated. This initiative went well, you know, Mr Member, until opposition politicians wanted to make short-term capital out of it. Until then, we have had several expert discussions in our ministry in the past, and will continue to do so in the future, and your action will not prevent this, because many of us have come, many of us have had expert-level dialogues, experts from the organisers and experts from the ministry, how to improve the care that the state is offering, how to expand or better aim for those who really need it. The organizer himself, Péter Horgas, has met and discussed both the event and the possibility of solving the issue with several heads of the Ministry, Minister, Secretary of State, Chief of Staff and many others. This went well until someone wanted to benefit from it in the short term. As regards bad economic policy, honourable Member, at other times you stand up here in Parliament precisely because good economic policy results are the basis for raising wages in the Hungarian economy. Somehow, it's as if one speech contradicts the other. As regards the social situation of people in Hungary, you know very well that 241 thousand fewer people are at risk of poverty today than they were a few years ago. You know very well that against child hunger, we wish not only to give you a national minimum, but a maximum budget, we have raised child food subsidies from HUF 29 billion to HUF 58 billion this year, which will be more than HUF 71 billion next year. Our summer meal support has also reached a record of HUF 3 billion. You know very well that of the kindergarten and kindergarten age, while five years ago 92 000 people were given free food, today, after 1 September, 317 000 people receive it. That's a 225,000 increase. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "Instead of painkillers." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-5	Mr President, Dear House, We are at a kind of a grace moment in the sense that the migration flows that have hit Hungary very hard in the past seem temporarily, but seem to decline, and its centers of gravity are shifted elsewhere. I stress that this condition can be temporary, it can be permanent, it is better to prepare for the most difficult times in this case. Fidesz-KDNP has announced an initiative to collect signatures that clearly intends to do something with the threat from the inside, i.e. with quota-like solutions. The betterman always adds that returnees should be at least as careful as they should be, since in the long run, this system is an open hat, and they can send more and more people back to Hungary without you being able to transmit them from here, because they have not developed the tool system. But Jobbik says that this is a signature-gathering action, an initiative is good, it can and must be said to support this, adding that besides migration, corruption is strangling, threatening Hungarians, and it is corruption that, in the long term, not only dries the economy, it not only paralyzes Hungarian everyday life, but also restricts the system of tools for dealing with the migration crisis, for example, through its longer-term effects. For this reason, Jobbik would also attach sheets to this system to combat corruption. But we can say that whatever we are doing with this issue, the Fidesz-KDNP signature collecting initiative is a painkiller, a pleasant cosmetic step, which, at the same time, does not have a serious projection in international space. For this reason Jobbik proposes a much stronger instrument for the government, a national referendum with a very clear sense. The question would be whether the affected citizen of Hungary would like to contribute by any means to the resettlement, retention of aliens here, and whether he would like to give his name to try to rearrange the image of Hungary from outside. I'm not going to tell you a secret that Jobbik will obviously encourage you to vote for the "not" vote. We reject any quota-like solution, but we say that instead of simply collecting signatures or national consultation, the direct force of a national referendum can give Hungary's current government the legitimacy to go to Brussels, put the millions of negative signatures on the table and reach favourable positions for Hungary that this country deserves. And in the spirit of symbolism, Jobbik does not find this question unnecessary at all, since why would a Brussels dictatorship be sacred and inviolable. What is that for Hungary it is determined from outside which questions it can directly request its voter's opinion and in which matters it is not. At the same time, there are legal dilemmas, legal dilemmas that ask whether it is possible to hold a referendum on quota-like issues at all, whether it is possible to seek this opinion directly with regard to the content of the current or future international treaty. Jobbik is now submitting an amendment to the basic law in order to remove these legal concerns and dilemmas, and in all respects to enable the citizens of Hungary to give a direct opinion on who they share their courtyard with, who they allow to enter their port. This is one of the most important questions in life. We can see that when, on the initiative of István Apáti and Gábor Vona on the amendment of the basic law, Jobbik would amend Article 8 (3), the section on the holding of a national referendum, to his idea, he would specifically indicate that he would do so in the context of the migration crisis. Therefore, we ask the government to take a step that Jobbik has already taken in the other direction, because when it comes to settling the migration issue, Jobbik has been able to rise above the party's political interests and clearly supported an initiative from another party, even if we were previously the thinkers, which pointed in the right direction for Hungary, and we clearly assured it of our support, essentially by expressing our critical comments, but without serious objections. [[11.20]] Now we expect the same from the government. We expect you to ensure the two-thirds of Jobbik's initiative to amend the basic law, which will allow Hungarian citizens to express their opinion directly, in official form, within the framework of a national referendum on whether or not they want to accept aliens. Clearly, the ball is bouncing in the middle of the government, and we can also see that there are two ways to go. One way is for the government to take this cosmetic, painkiller step and sit back like a man who did his job well. Instead, we are offering you the other way to regain the sovereignty of the country, and it will finally allow Hungary, in a manner worthy of a sovereign nation state, equipped with the direct will of its citizens, to achieve with the necessary legitimacy that the Brussels dictators are not holy and inviolable, not to accept everything that is cooked for us in foreign witch kitchens. So this is the way we propose to you. I look forward to your substantive response to this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian reforms work, the decision of the Hungarian people has been made by the government, we protect the country, we protect the southern border. Allow me to give you a specific number. At the beginning of September, there was a day when 10 046 people entered the Hungarian-Serbian border in one day. Due to the construction of the southern security border closure, the combined protection of legal protection and living protection at the Hungarian-Serbian border and the Hungarian-Croatian border, thus the security protection at the southern border, we are there that, due to a total of 13 persons in the last 72 hours, of which 9 were caught during a depth check, and four more were caught at the Serbian border section, while no border control event occurred in the Croatian context. These figures show that the southern border lock is working, the Hungarian reforms are working, the people's decisions are being implemented by the government. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government is aware that this is a situation that needs to be monitored at all times, because we cannot say that there is no danger, because the chances and possibilities of danger remain. But I would like to inform you and this House that the government and the competent law enforcement authorities are monitoring the entire southern border section, monitoring the events in neighbouring countries, we are also following the Hungarian-Romanian border section, and we would like to achieve the protection that we have provided on the entire southern border section and on all the external borders of Hungary on the Hungarian-Serbian and Hungarian-Croatian border section. Honourable Congressman, I would like to say here and now, as I have done before, that the government has declared zero tolerance to corruption. Our aim, honourable Member, is to make Hungary one of the least corrupted countries. For this purpose, we have established the National Defence Service, which is why we have adopted an anti-corruption action plan. And we ask you to come clean: in one of the most serious corruption scandals in the European Union, in the KGB and Béla Kovács corruption scandals, to testify, to disclose the information about why you are covering Béla Kovács. If you really care about the fight against corruption, then come clean, come out to the public, and tell us what you know about this serious suspicion of corruption. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] As for the referendum... Mr President, please give me the opportunity to complete the answer because the fellow Members are making a lot of noise. Thank you very much. As regards your proposal for a referendum: honourable Member, this year we held a national consultation, and in the national consultation nearly 9 million human opinion on the need to protect borders, to protect the country, and that is what we have done. So far, we've done everything we can to protect this country. So there is no need for a separate referendum, in our view. This referendum has been held. As regards the Fidesz signature collection action, I would like to draw attention to the fact that people have joined this to a large extent and to a significant extent. In my constituency, Balatonfüred, Balatonalmádi, Várpalota and the municipalities, they also support this initiative, because they feel that today this is the most important issue of Hungary, to be safe, to protect the borders, to protect the country. We're hoping that as many people as possible will sign. By the way, this collection of signatures was also successful in spring 2013, when we invited people to sign in addition to the reduction of the rent, with more than two and a half million people supporting it at the time. We hope that this signature collection action will also be so successful that it will strengthen the Hungarian position. As regards the issue of sovereignty, honourable Member, I declare before this House that Hungary is a sovereign country, the Government of Hungary in Brussels and everywhere, on all matters, including the issue of the protection of borders and the issue of illegal migration, is also in favour of Hungarian interests. Now we are in danger, not from the south, but from the west. The government is acting with all its might against the mandatory resettlement quota, which is unlawful, pointless and dangerous. The Fidesz fraction has submitted a bill at the end of the last week in order for the Parliament to order the government to bring an action against the compulsory resettlement quota. I ask you, if you are serious about what you have said, then you must vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, MEP Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP Group, called Demography for our unborn children, came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-09-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about the perhaps most pressing problem of Hungary and Europe, the demographic crisis, not only because of the constant topicality of the topic, but especially with regard to the three-day demographic conference held at the end of last week. Half a century ago, the average European man was barely familiar with the meaning of the word demography. Life took place in its millennia-shaped bed, and people slowly slipping away from the horrors of war found their way back to the holiday and weekdays according to the laws of nature, men and women were married, and children were born, in order in more countries than any of us had ever passed away. So the command, which appears in the first part of the book of the world's most read, in the first part of the book of Moses, was fulfilled, I quote: "God made man a man and a woman in his image, and God blessed them, and told them to multiply and multiply, and fill the earth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This command seems to be forgotten or denied by most of the inhabitants of the civilized world. We all know the shocking data for Hungary: Since 1981, in 34 years, the number of citizens in Hungary has decreased by almost 1 million, by 856,000, and the Hungarian population is losing weight throughout the Carpathian Basin. So, with good sense and good timing, the Ministry of Human Resources has convened the demographic forum last week, with many, many thoughts to be taken to heart, because the problem is already more than serious. A nation whose number of souls is reduced, not by natural or human disaster, but by its own will, is doomed to death. We, the living, and especially the young, must therefore answer the question individually whether we want to be part of a nation doomed to death or to life, to development, to flourish, or whether we want to avoid the death sentence temporarily by doing wrong replacement acts, such as planting aliens. Our Prime Minister has given a straight answer on several occasions, including at the demographic forum: no. We do not ask for the false advantages offered by violent immigrants; Hungary must be able and ready to defend itself in all respects, strengthened and increased again in its number. And that is the strong position of the Christian Democratic People's Party from the very beginning, as has the overwhelming majority of our constituents. [[11.30]] For growth, for the birth and upbringing of the desired children, our family-friendly government provides very serious, growing support to families year after year. Here, no one has to fear that the financial implications of childbearing and raising make a living impossible. From these we heard a bunch of them in the government's response to the speech before the first agenda, and not everything was listed by the Secretary of State. Our Stregovo spirit giant, Imre Madách In the tragedy of man, he sees a depressing vision of the future of mankind. However, when Adam prepares to take life away from himself because of the lack of prospects of history, Eve says: "I feel like Mother, oh, Adam, I feel myself. And the new life to be born again fills with hope the Adam who was just about to kill himself, to whom the Lord also sends encouragement, saying, 'I said, man, fight and trust.' I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I wish that no young couple in Hungary and across Europe should give up the joys of having and raising children that cannot be replaced. And then our lives will be happier in Europe and throughout the Carpathian Basin. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák wishes to reply. I give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-11-09-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The demographic forum in Budapest was indeed a very important stage for the Hungarian population and family policy measures and processes. We have managed to convene an international conference to which MEPs have come from more than 18 countries. And indeed, politicians, experts, representatives of civil society organisations and churches were able to engage in a very intensive dialogue in Millenáris for two days, where we looked for answers to the truly burning challenges ahead. I think the challenge is common. I think we need to look for solutions together. Whether we need to find common solutions is another issue. I think we all need to find our own answers to the demographic challenges ahead, but we need to do this journey together. At the same time, I would like to begin by thanking all the Members who have honored the Budapest Demographic Forum with their presence, as we have sent invitations to all Members, whether they are pro-government or opposition representatives. Thank you so much for coming. The demographic situation in Europe is indeed very worrying, but if we observe international trends, the situation is not the same. I would like to bring you some of the data presented by a world - famous demographer, Paul Demény. If we look at the population figures for certain countries in 1950 and 2015, then the figures are certainly thoughtful. I would like only a few: Syria had a population of 3.4 million in 1950, nearly 23 million in 2015; Iraq had a population of 36 million compared to 6 million; Turkey had a population of 21 million to nearly 80 million; Afghanistan had a population of 8 million to 39 million; Yemen from 4 million to 27 million; Egypt from 21 million to 90 million; Algeria from 9 million to 40 million. If we add to this what she said that the population in Hungary has fallen by more than 850 thousand over the last 34 years, then we can certainly see that we are facing a very serious challenge. That is why we called the demographic forum in Budapest, and that is why we think that, although it is really not fashionable to talk to European politicians today about demographic challenges, we interrupt this fashion and say that we do need to talk about demography, and as we did last week, we will continue to do so in the future. Prime Minister has honored us with his presence, and Prime Minister Cameron also considered it important to send a minister to this conference in person, and I think it is also a great honor that the Holy Father sent a personal message to this conference, presented to us by Cardinal Paglia, President of the Papal Family Council. The recently appointed President of Poland, Andrzej Duda, also sent a personal message, but here were ministers from various countries, world-famous, highly respected researchers and scientists. Here was Ján Figel, former Deputy Prime Minister from Slovakia, who is now Vice-President of the National Council of the Slovak Republic; Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, Vice-President of the European Parliament, also spoke at the conference. Following the speeches of ministers and Members of Parliament, more than fifty experts, scientists and recognised experts spoke to the debate at the demographic conference in Budapest, most of which came from abroad. Then the three-day conference was closed on Saturday with a large family cultural festival in Millenáris, where nearly 6,000 participants were present, and we were able to celebrate together at a really champagne festival for families about families. This is our message that the demographic challenge is significant, but the answer must be given with the support of families. We believe that family-oriented governance can respond to demographic challenges, that we need to mobilise our internal resources, not by bringing in external resources, to respond to the demographic challenges ahead. The sequel won't stop. At the government meeting, we presented the small films with which we would like to show more emphasis on the role of fathers and, on the other hand, we would also like to show the treasure of the brothers, that the brother is the greatest gift we can give our child. We have launched the family.hu portal, where you can find all information about families. I suggest that you visit there, too. We are, of course, preparing a publication about the conference, and it will not be the only one for the demographic forums in Budapest. I would ask you to support the Hungarian family-friendly measures to your potential. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-12	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, has also applied for a pre-meeting address. This is how we see it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am continuing unfinished by the secretary of state, as she spoke about strengthening families. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] A week ago here in Parliament, Balázs Győrffy, President of the Agricultural Chamber and Minister Sándor Fazekas had one of these pre-scheduled pettings. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] in which they talked about how treacherous the opposition is and how it makes the land go out of the Hungarian hand. This reminds me of a foreign saying that a man who lives in a greenhouse shouldn't throw rocks. In this connection, I thought that I would recall some of their earlier statements, because it will obviously be exciting that they have always been in this position, in such a devastating position, or had clearer moments when they might have said something else. The statement by István Jakab, in the field-privatization debate, said that it would have irreversible, disastrous consequences for the people living in the countryside if the state land were sold by the government. That's how the President of Magos put it. That's what my fellow Member Pudgy said, he didn't say it like that, he heard it. Well, it's written in an interview at the Civil Review. I'm sure you've heard something else, but it was published in an article in July 2007. It is also exciting that Márton Örs Bitay, as State Secretary for State Lands to this day, has this in his toast on the NFA website:. The productive land, forest, field and wildlife contain a biological and Hungarian landscape-determining value that can only be managed responsibly. This can only be achieved and ensured by the provision of public tasks. In this way, the National Land Management Organisation is responsible for the professional exploitation of all national land. Well, I'm sure Mr. Secretary of State had an "x" behind his back while he was tying, because it's different, isn't it? But let me give you another quote like that. Gyula Budai, the Federal Director of Magos in 2008 in the Agrotrend interview, says:. According to the Association of Hungarian Farmers' and Farmers' Associations, the state land is sold with shameful methods. Government hustle continues around the sale of state land, using hundreds of legal tricks, which is a typical case of abuse of power, said Gyula Budai. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how it was said. I repeat the last sentence:. The government is continuing to hustle around the sale of state land, using hundreds of legal tricks, which is a typical case of abuse of power. If I told you today, no one would think I wasn't talking about Fidesz, because it would be so obvious that this is absolutely true for Fidesz. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Finally, let me tell you how József Ángyán remembers a conversation with Viktor Orbán:. We clearly agreed with the Prime Minister that the state would not sell, but buy on the land market. Thus, the growing areas are constantly provided for local farmers, families and couples, with favourable conditions and long-term rentals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.40]] Well, this was something the government was so serious about at the time that the national rural strategy was built on this basis, at the bottom of which was the name of Minister Sándor Fazekas, who sanctioned all of this and wanted it as a constitution of the countryside. It is obvious that the minister who was enthusiastically included in the ribbon cutting feast lunches, who has not yet given an account of the number of sheep on Hortobágy, had only his last announcements, with great and great error; to date, he has not given an account of how he has helped Marcsika as mayor to obtain an office, the Kiss Szilárd case, as the court has now stated, that it is safe to say that he has brokered his money for the Hungarian public property, these few million, which have disappeared, are indeed a serious responsibility. If someone says something and acts contrary to it, it's a lack of credibility. The lack of credibility when we say something, and we act in the opposite direction of government, and that is why what took place before the agenda last week between the President of the Chamber of Agriculture and the Minister embodys the lack of credibility that the government itself represents. They've been looking for the right to govern you, since I've been here, but before that, there's been worse, there's been more of you who stole than if you're entitled to anything. But please, let it be a fact, there were things that weren't worse than you. So far, in 25 years, the most ludicrous liberal economic policy wouldn't have dared to touch state property. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] That's never happened before. You're the worst at this, and that's where you take the lead. At the moment, I hope with my words, because the flagmen of this national treason, István Jakab, Balázs Győrffy, Márton Bitay, Sándor Fazekas, who are the flagmen of this case, represent what the government wants, but you still have the opportunity to change it as a pro-government politician. Obviously, this is what I'm asking you to do, I'm still asking the government to start the auctions next Monday, to change its position, and not to implement this treason that you're doing. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-09-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr István Nagy wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-15	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, For many times, the concern you have expressed in relation to land privatisation comes before this House. Who's responsible for this? - he asks the question. Let me ask you, what is the responsibility? Is it that they hear farmers' voices? To hear the farmers' voices? That there is a hunger in Hungary? That farmers want to get to the ground? And hearing this, putting it into practice, is that a problem? I believe that there is a number of proofs that it is necessary and necessary to privatise, sell, bid some 20% of the state's land, which helps farmers produce. Why am I saying this? That's because the soil itself is a limited animal. The use of land and its management impose very important aspects on itself. Numerous conferences and numerous research projects demonstrate a reduction in the nutritional value and production value of agricultural land. In the last 50 years, the ability to produce the soil has fallen to one tenth. I'll also tell you why most of the time. Because when tenants use it and not the owner, it's all about getting as much out of it as possible and not caring about what it turns back. So he doesn't care about power management. It's just a reason. But if you're going to consider animal husbandry, which you're going to have to invest in in the long term, I'm going to have to say once again that property is a much better form than rent itself. And if you look at the NFA auctions that are registered for small-scale land under 3 hectares, then what happens is that there is a 10-20-30-fold over-subscription, 10-20-30-fold demand for these areas. So who do you think is responsible? I think that those responsible for farmers do understand and hear the voice, request and word of the Hungarian economy. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] You can't blame them for that. The other thing I'd like to share with you. He says he's in the best place in the state, and the state has to buy. My dear fellow Member, There's no contradiction, because that's what happens. In all areas which are protected, which require natural protection, which require that we put under protection, the state intervenes and buys, because it must be preserved not only for the present, but for the future, of course, because we continue to believe and confess that the land is not for today, not for us, but only for our grandchildren. It's a way and a way to deal with it. He says there's a lot of abuse and everything around this. Let me ask you, my dear fellow Member, is there a more transparent, clearer process than what has now been announced for the auctions? Natural persons can take part in a public auction; the state does not squander these areas, but will sell them at 10 percent above its value, so it will actually be expensive, precisely because it manages the state's wealth responsibly. Responsible farming is supported by the fact that you can not use the money that you have received, not to do anything, but to use it to build on your national assets. So everything is in line for a very good programme to be implemented. A program that only happens after earthburn occurs after social interventions that are possible about once a century. Now, in peacetime, Hungarian farmers have the opportunity to strengthen so that we can go from small farmers to the medium-sized estate, precisely to make it viable and sustainable. So many times we talk about the rural capacity, so many times we talk about the rural problem; one of the most important opportunities is to give these farmers land ownership. And why can we get everyone who wants to land? That's because it's not a matter of getting to the ground right now. Because there is a state loan guarantee behind the purchase of land with which all people can enjoy this opportunity in the same way. I think with a 1.95 percent interest rate, with a 20-year maturity, there's no better investment, there's no better opportunity for farmers, for those who choose to live in rural areas, and for those who want to do this way of life to get to the ground. Who's responsible? He's responsible for hearing farmers' voices. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Tessely, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a pre-meeting speech at the World Music Expo World Music Festival, Conference and Fair with the title WOMEX 2015 Budapest, a huge honour and world success. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Our unparalleled folk music traditions, which were collected, written and organized in a unique manner, are fantastic people, from Zoltán Kodály to Zoltán Kallós, many younger collectors today; the performance of our folk musicians, who have been raised in the House of Traditions or at the Liszt Academy, who are a great role model in the music of the Dance House, is an enthusiastic and dynamic government will developed in the Ministry of Human Capacities, embodied in a very significant government support, a large number of other state and civil supporters, great venues, the Palace of Arts, the Balázs Weyer and the A38 ship. All of these were the ingredients of the successful recipe that made Budapest the capital of world music with the event between 21 and 25 October 2015. Not only did we see the best performers in Budapest of the only branch of the music industry that has developed, but there were producers of this genre, organizers of concert venues and festivals, record publishers and journalists from all over the world. [[11.50]] It was a long time ago in the history of Womex that all the tickets were sold out. Instead of the usual single Hungarian performer, 17 of our bands could be in the spotlight this year. In Budapest there were more than 2550 professional participants, 850 concert organizers from 93 countries, 500 record publishers, 390 international government institutions, 680 companies and 300 foreign journalists. As a benefit of the event, foreign guests arriving here spent about 950 million HUF in our country. In view of all this, you can only agree with Dániel Hamar, a member of the Muzsikás band, who said that he had never seen such a positive country image action. The clear opinion of the profession was that the most successful of the twenty-one Womex so far was Budapest. Thank you to everyone who has actively participated in this honouring success. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for being a dedicated supporter of the World Music Expo in Budapest. I would like to point out that, with regard to the establishment of the Hungarian Music Export Office, which is also included in the Government's decision, which is intended to deliver the performers and products of a successful sector to the world market, the most favourable moment has just arrived. In the history of Womex, it happened several times that he returned to a successful location. On the basis of the statements made, there is a strong intention towards Budapest. I would ask the Government and the Secretary of State to consider the possibility of this because of Womex's 2015 world success. Finally, I quote Zoltán Kodály's very current idea of world music on paper in 1947, which is still very recent today: "You might think that we will be better world music citizens, the more we resemble the voice of the world and give up on our own. On the contrary, we will have more words to the world, riched, deepened and armed with our own knowledge than before, when most of our forces have melted into it largely without trace. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-09-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If Hungary represents world-class, world-class performance in something, then I think that this must be shown to the whole world, which is why the government decided to support the World Music Expo, the world music festival in Hungary, in Budapest. This was not only moral, but also financial support, and Hungary submitted a tender that clearly awarded Hungary the right to direct this year, and this event was very successful. This is important to us, because Hungary was the first of the Central European countries to direct Womex. This is obviously a huge success for Hungary, but we would have liked this success to be shared by the peoples of Europe or the countries along the Danube, and thus not only Hungary had a much greater opportunity to present itself in the world music supply with Hungarian folk music, Hungarian world music, but also with the countries of Central Europe, and this kind of regionalism was definitely our goal. This was an introduction from Hungary, a huge fair. Whoever was on it saw it, who wasn't, might have heard about it from the news. There were several locations, as the congressman pointed out. In the Palace of Arts there were mainly concerts, but there were also on the A38 ship and other locations. And the Whale itself was actually transformed into the pulsating center of world music, as in these few days all major world music players participated, whether they were record publishers, experts, performers, producers, everyone was here in Hungary, everyone was here in Budapest, and at the numerous booths in the Whale, we are sure that a lot of record contracts were made, a lot of concerts were held. The next year's world music events around the world have been organized largely on Womex, here in Budapest for these few days, while we could keep it here in Budapest. That's why Budapest was the capital of world music for a few days. The festival, award ceremony, conference and fair are all Womex, offering a wide range of events and programs. Like you said, that's 21. Womex was the first in Central Europe, but the 21st in the Womex series, representing 1,500 organisations, sent 2,500 participants from around different countries. They spent about 10,000 guest nights here, representing 90 countries, nearly 100 countries, 875 concert and festival organizers, 500 publishers and distributors, as the congressman pointed out, more than half a thousand managers attended, producers, agencies representatives, 270 stands, with a total of 700 exhibitors, representing 54 countries, and 280 artists from 60 concerts from half a hundred countries performed here in Budapest on 7 stages. This obviously also gives room for professional discussions on the one hand and diplomatic meetings on the other. The Member also referred to the number of cultural diplomats and cultural administrative experts from various countries. As has been said, there have never been so many Hungarian performers at world music festivals, Womexen, as now. The opening ceremony was attended by Romengo, Palya Bea, Szalonna and his band, but after that, Buda Folk Band, Ági Herczku and his band, as well as the Cimbalom Duo participated in the event. As the congressman pointed out, Hungarian music, Gypsy music, Hungarian folk music has not been presented anywhere so many times. This is a huge prestige growth for Hungary. In the field of arts, I think it may also be symbolic that the series of events began in the Béla Bartók Concert Hall, but I think we have greatly strengthened the Hungarian country image and we should be proud of what Hungary has to offer in this area. We have made many friends to Hungary from many countries who have been here, they have loved not only Hungarian music, but also Budapest, Hungary, because they have spent several days here, they have visited Budapest. This is also taken home, or the hundreds of journalists or 130 radio channels that were also represented on Womex, also reported not only on music, world music, but also on Budapest, thus focusing attention on Budapest as well as on tourism or other. So we hope that the first world music festival in Central and Eastern Europe, Womex, will be able to fill us with pride in terms of both professionally and in terms of the country as a whole, and improve Hungary's prestige in the whole world. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to inform you about the Members who have applied for the speech after today's agenda. László Varju, independent; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Róbert Sallai Benedek, LMP; Attila Mesterházy, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Nándor Gúr, MSZP; Zoltán Ready, independent; Ikotity, István, LMP; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:58 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The failure of the health care system at the Markhot Ferenc Hospital in Eger. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-11-09-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There must be a big problem at Markhot Ferenc Hospital. It could be a big problem, because in terms of working conditions, it doesn't matter if there's a technical or personal background, it's likely that there's an inadequate background behind doctors. [[12.00]] It could be a big problem, since during this period six doctors left the hospital, resigned from the radiology department. Practically one third of them have resigned from the radiological department, so it is obvious that the level of care is also falling. In 2014, workers fled the emergency department, headed by the head of the department, now, in 2015, as I said, one third of the radiological department left. It could be a big problem, but not only at Markhot Ferenc Hospital, but also elsewhere in North-East Hungary, in Miskolc, where nine children died in 2013 in connection with a bacterial infection in the county hospital, and now, in 2014-15, many died in connection with other infections, including one of our former State Secretarys. There's a shortage. There's a lack of radiology, there's a shortage of infant and childcare, there's a shortage, as I said, in terms of urgency, a shortage of forensics experts, lung doctors, infectology, pathology, neurology, I could tell you where. I'm not telling you this. You can read it from the register of the Ministry of Human Resources. The financial appreciation and working conditions of health workers are not what they should be. When will they be? - that's one of my questions. My second question is how long will health care, health care systems, be operational if you allow doctors and nurses to leave the country in bulk. When are you going to change this situation, basically through the appreciation of health care systems? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2015-11-09-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you are either in Eger or you are in Hatvan and you are talking to hospital staff, then you really do paint a rather sad picture of the time when HospInvest and the socialist privatization of that time marked the fate of hospitals. [[Nándor Gúr: It's been six years, you know?]] Obviously, there are many other issues in health care that need to be resolved, and there are also problems in many other hospitals that are common in health care, which must obviously not be denied. Obviously, this was part of the reason why hospitals had to be consolidated from 60 billion, obviously part of which was why we had constantly increased health wages in the past, and obviously we have to do the following, but you know where HospInvest has set foot through the involvement of the Socialist Party, the wounds of the past are even more painful, and you can see why this was good. Many specialists left the hospitals at that time, and the assets of the hospitals not only did not improve but declined, because they sold a lot of those instruments and brought in these disadvantages, whether in Hatvan or in Eger. So it was really difficult to recover after the hosvenveset era, but at the Markhot Ferenc Education Hospital in Eger, there are several European Union applications for the renovation, replacement and modernisation of equipment parks; we hope that they can compensate for this disadvantage somewhat, what the Hosvenvetes period has done. Of course, the minimum professional conditions are met by the hospital staff, and the personal conditions can be guaranteed on a continuous basis. It is true, to which Mr President pointed out that several doctors have quit at the same time, but still, after the fall, 16 doctors are working in radiological areas, and if we look at where the number of doctors has increased this year, we can see an increase in the number of people working in the field of urological, anesthesiology or emergency. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question, "How much is the heart of the system worth to you?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2015-11-09-25	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On May 2015, then on Semmelweis Day, on 1 July 2015, health workers held a demonstration to settle their wages. The then Secretary of State, Dr. Gábor Zombor, acknowledged that the workers' request was legitimate, and promised that from 1 July HUF 5.3 billion, from January 2016 HUF 13 billion would be spent on the wage increase, so the laborer's overtime, standby and on-call fees will increase from the second half of 2015. He emphasized that the wage increase would be noticeable. According to calculations, the minimum amount will be 5 thousand forints, the majority can expect a wage increase between 5 and 12 thousand forints. As we know, the on-call fees vary from hospital to hospital, and they form an individual deal. There are places, such as the Veszprém County Hospital, where they pay 200 percent of the statutory amount, while others can barely pay the minimum. The result may be that inequality has already been shown in the payment of the September allowance. Therefore, Jobbik has always stressed the need to change the civil servant pay table and raise the basic wage, and this is why the other benefits are changing. You guys say numbers can't be discussed. Without the need for completeness, I brought some rent papers with me. The average wage increase was HUF 1000-1500, but the fact is that there was a healthcare worker who received a gross increase of HUF 15,000, but it had to work about 220-250 hours a month. Therefore, once again, we call to the attention of the government that the funds for wage increases should be used to raise the basic wage, so that a normal wage increase would indeed be achieved at a certain level. The new Secretary of State said that a unified collective agreement should be introduced in hospitals rather than a career model. Unified or separately [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] collective agreements do not work, we demand the pay table. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last five years, there have been two types of logical wage increases in health care, obviously one of the logics that you have described, because it is more general, the basic wage raiser, and obviously also one that is differentiated, which has paid people in addition to the sickbed more than other health workers. You know as well as I do that 95,000 people who work in health care can bring home more than 25-27 percent now than they did five years ago, of course, without any family tax benefits and without any tax reduction. So, if you look at the gross wage, it's about HUF 75-77 billion in extra wages, which you can now get every year, for years now, for healthcare workers. Obviously, the amount they deserve is much higher, and we know it, but the government can increase wages in proportion to the growth of the economy, so it also does in health care. As I said, in 2012-13, the first wage increase was completed, and now, as of July 1st this year, the second, which you were aiming for, which is more than HUF 5 billion extra for healthcare workers this year, and the following year is much higher, around HUF 12 billion. And this is indeed differentiated, as you have pointed out, who is more than just a sickbed, who works more shifts, who have higher allowances, who have received a higher increase, who are not there at night, let's say, in addition to the patients, who obviously received a higher wage increase during the previous wage increase. This second was the release of frozen wages and surrogates, which were also increased to the same extent, and in some cases to a greater extent than the previous increase in basic wages. With Chipsado and in other ways, the government has already tried to create additional resources to pay and cover health wages, which is obviously what we do next, so it's listed, as I said, in the next budget of 12 billion forints plus this framework. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-28	Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-11-09-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The government's claims over the past few years have been that the government has done everything in its power to prevent danger at the toxic site on Scent Road. Nevertheless, the research carried out by an independent, accredited lab at the request and order of a green NGO has been published in the press, which proves that DDT, banned for decades, is present not only in the soil and in the groundwater affected there, but also in the air. This was a basically carcinogenic plant protection product containing hormone-toxic compounds, which was completely legitimately banned many decades ago, and indeed several other dust-containing plant protection products were detected by accredited laboratories in these areas. In our view, the presence of poisons is a direct threat to the environment and health, and the government's duty would be to remedy the damage to the fullest extent possible. The extent of contamination and the effects on the population should also be assessed without delay from a government point of view, if they do not believe the independent laboratory, and the soil, the soil and the contaminated area should be cleaned. [[12.10]] I am looking for the answer, Mr Secretary of State, to see if you are finally willing to face the problem of the portfolio responsible for environmental protection, to carry out the state's tasks of damage control and reduction of environmental health effects. Will there be consequences of the case, whether the responsibility of the authorities or the Ministry, the superior bodies will be examined? I mean, I mean, disaster control, who said everything was okay, and there's no danger at all. Is the Minister prepared to take responsibility for the possible environmental and health risks arising from known pollution as a consequence of state inactivity in the future in the affected population on the ground? I ask you not only to consider how many barrels have been transported and what has been done so far, but also what is missing and how it will be resolved, because this is obviously the exciting part of the answer to the question. I know they did, but it wasn't enough. Please take further action. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-09-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to reject your question immediately that the government will continue to do nothing about the pollution on the Scented Road, because it is the only government that has done and done. After all, in 2002, the environmental authority gave the order to discharge, the Medgyessy government, the Gyurcsány government, the Bajnai government, nobody did anything, and then the Orbán government does it, and you're trying to degrade it, it's not the right thing to do. So far, until November 5th, 1 466 701 kilos of hazardous waste have been delivered. I would like to inform you that the control of groundwater contamination was carried out by the public health department of the Budapest Metropolitan Government Office during October. The results of the accredited official sampling and laboratory analysis found that no contamination of groundwater was found in five public wells in the vicinity of the factory. In reply to Mr President's questions about responsibility and consequences, I would like to inform him that both the clarification of liability issues and the clarification of criminal, administrative and civil law are under way, but the cause of the pollution is known and its responsibility is indisputable. The government has taken action to better enforce environmental aspects for firms in liquidation proceedings. It has created the possibility to ensure the participation of a public insolvency practitioner in winding-up proceedings. To this end, the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and the Government Decree on environmental and nature protection requirements for winding-up and winding-up have been amended. The current government has not been idle, unlike before, and every action taken and planned to solve the case has been designed to reduce and prevent possible environmental and health damage. That's what he'll do in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the foreign minister:. How does the domestic results of the automotive industry affect the economy, employment and corporate culture? It's an address. Mr Simon Robert Balázs has the floor.
u2015-11-09-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The domestic automotive industry increased its production by 16 percent in the first eight months of this year. It produced a value of HUF 5100 billion. 22 percent of Hungarian exports come from the automotive industry. One of the most dynamically developing companies in the automotive industry is the Győr Audi plant in my constituency. Since its establishment in 1993, EUR 7.4 billion have been invested in Győr, with EUR 235 million in investment in the first half of 2015. This year the new engine development centre was inaugurated in May, the establishment of the higher education industrial and university centre was announced in July, and the second logistics hall was inaugurated in September. Last year, Audi produced some two million engines, this year they continued to increase production, so they can reach another engine production record at the end of the year. The company is also involved in the development of engines and vehicles, and the research also provides the basis for the need of a highly qualified professional. In the last few weeks, two weeks ago, the press announced that Audi Hungária Motor Kft. launches more than 32 billion investment at Győr's premises between 2015 and 2018 and, thanks to the development, 380 new jobs will be created. As a result of the investment, petrol and diesel engines can be made from more efficient and environmentally friendly engines. The Hungarian government supports the investment by HUF 6 billion, the contract was signed a few weeks ago with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in Budapest. The development of the automotive industry and its productivity increase provide a significant boost to the country's economic growth. As the Audi case shows, the behaviour of the government plays an extremely important role. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State what active tools the government is using to promote the development of the automotive industry, about how many families are affected by the Hungarian automotive industry's share of domestic employment, and finally, whether there is some kind of transfer effect in relation to the fact that, on a large scale, well-organized, well-organised and productive companies are coming into the country. Thank you for your attention, I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Szabó will answer the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the automotive industry is Hungary's strategic sector, and it is good to see that according to recent data, there are more than 145 thousand direct employees in this industry. Of course, through the multiplier effect, this gives more families the opportunity to make a living. The gross added value of vehicle production from the Hungarian national economy already reaches 4.6 percent, which also shows the importance of industry. The fact that the production of more than HUF 6600 billion, which was last year, represented a 23 percent increase last year, and it was already more than 15 percent increase in the first 8 months of this year. This seems to be a very dynamic sector of the Hungarian economy. It is also good to see that these investments, which take place in Hungary, are not only mechanical assembly, but more and more innovations are coming into our direction, and the Győr factory, as you mentioned, is doing more and more innovation research and development work, more and more engineers are working there, and more and more highly skilled workers are being used. But this is not only true of the Audira, it is true of all the major integrators in the country, and it is good to see that the kind of dual training that the Hungarian government has started more than three years ago, and with this, among the Visegrad Four, who are our very serious competitors in the automotive sector, we could be the first. We already train more than 50,000 students in dual training, and that means that when they finish, they have real practical knowledge on the first day they start working. It is also good to see that Hungarian small and medium-sized companies play an increasingly important role as suppliers in these companies, until about 60 percent of Hungarian suppliers were in large industries about a year and a half ago, including in the automotive industry, now two thirds and 66 percent of Hungarian suppliers represent the entire supply chain in these large integrating companies. It is important for us to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsuzsanna Szelényi wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an independent question:. Does the Government not care at all about the fate of Hungarian autists? It's an address. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi has the floor.
u2015-11-09-37	Thank you very much. I appeal to the family-friendly government of the so-called family-friendly country. In Hungary there are about 100,000 people living with autism, which means that at least so many families are involved in this issue. This is at least 1 percent of the population or, if you look at families, much more. Autism is a very broad-spectrum, complex, multiplicity state with which those who have to live together suffer very serious suffering, and very careful care is required of the supply system that should serve them. Unfortunately, the people living with autism and their families in Hungary are extremely abandoned. Look at those who have grown up, so now we don't look at those who are in their childhood, but those who reach adulthood. There are about tens of thousands of people living with autism who need a residential institution, because they are extremely difficult to cope with in a family environment. [[12.20]] There are about the same number of people who need some kind of day care. Well, there are 200-250 residents in Hungary at the moment, and the institutions - mostly non-state institutions - that carry out this kind of care are experiencing extraordinary financial difficulties. For them, there is almost no day care system for those living with autism. But if that would not be enough, then it is a particular problem that families - basically parents - who raise people with autism must experience extremely humiliating treatment when their child becomes an adult, in fact, they must re-enact that they are able to raise their child, which no one else has asked them for 18 to 20 years. So my question is, how does the government try the humiliating procedure of the social services office? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] change, and what residential and daytime institutions are willing and willing to create, relatively soon, that many, many thousands of people...
u2015-11-09-38	Thank you, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-09-39	... make your life easier.
u2015-11-09-40	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think it is a fundamental humane aspect for all of us to provide the greatest possible help for those living with autism. In the last five years, the government has also tried to provide all resources to increase this support. If you look at the amount of central government support from the National Association of Autists, it was 40 million forints in 2011, 50 million forints in 2013, 52 million forints in 2014 and 55 million forints this year, so it shows an increase every year. We also opened a new title from 2011 to apply for autistic institutions - a completely new source. This started in 2011 with HUF 12 million, then in 2012 it increased to HUF 90 million, and since 2013 it has been constantly rising, so this year it is an additional source of HUF 95 million for the institutions supplying autistic persons. These are budgetary resources; we have also obviously sought to develop from EU funds. The TÁMOP Project Eight Points helped give these people HUF 800 million. Here, on the one hand, a system of general service requirements has been developed, and on the other hand, a network of base institutions has been established, which is what the Member referred to as the need for this. Here there are coordinated training courses for people with autism, their relatives, parents, family members, and obviously professionals who work here. The disability programme itself has also adopted a plan of action, which deals specifically with people living with autism, and in relation to day care, we have opened a new project called "enlargement and development of the infrastructure of social basic services," where new seats could be created, which was also called for by the Member. A TIOP project was launched to replace the residential institutions, and our aim was to strengthen the basic service. Overall, if we add normative, EU and other funding, the funds available to autists increased by HUF 1.2 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-42	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources what improvements are expected at St. Margaret's Hospital? Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2015-11-09-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As many of us may know about this, the third edition of Awake! in the district, a civil society organisation organises a collection of signatures in order to draw the attention of government decision-makers to the need and importance of the development of St. Margaret Hospital. The initiative will be supported by the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions. district municipality and almost all III. district party, as well as myself as the III. I also believe that it is appropriate to draw the attention of the decision-makers to this fact, namely that without St. Margaret's Hospital, the III. The population of the district and the agglomeration in Northern Buda have no high-quality health care. It's so important to us, III. For district residents, this hospital, that the municipality has supported the hospital's development several times over the past years, has contributed, among other things, to the renewal of the cardiology department and we have acquired several tools. For this reason, it is very important for us that the developments that we have heard in Budapest over the past few years be implemented with regard to this III. The development of St. Margaret's Hospital in the district. It can be said that Annex III is amended as follows: Circuit health care is based on two pillars: one at the Honvéd Hospital and the other at St. Margaret's Hospital, which is inevitable, according to our position. In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: do you agree with Rule III? Can't the high-quality inpatient care of the population of the district be solved without the continuous development of Margaret Hospital? Or, in the coming years, what investments does the government plan to make in order to develop St. Margaret's Hospital? Thank you for listening and waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-09-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think the development of Margaret Hospital is in agreement with everyone who is sitting in this Parliament, as with the development of all other hospitals, so it is an important achievement that in the last five years there has been about HUF 500 billion that we have spent on developing hospitals. If we were to illustrate this in scale, we used one and a half times the one-year amount of corporate tax paid by all Hungarian companies and businesses to develop hospitals. This is a very high amount, and it was not really the case before, that if we combine everyone - Hungarian and foreign - from the smallest to the largest enterprise, then we spent one and a half times this one-year item on hospital development in five years. It was worth it, of course, for hospitals; it was HUF 322 billion that came to inpatient care, HUF 104 billion that could be used to buy equipment, and other goals that we could also serve. The Margit Hospital is also of great importance, since it has 256 active beds, 200 chronic rehab beds, and it plays a very important role not only in Óbuda-Békásmegyer but also in the care of Budapest as a whole, so it is important to receive support. At the same time, you know that the logic of EU funding is to give as little support as possible to Budapest and Pest County, which is why a good proportion of this 500 billion actually went to rural hospitals, but the government is thinking about building a new large hospital in Budapest because the logic of EU development has been disproportionate in recent years. The latest news that I can tell the congressman that a new development of the KEOP programme entered into force on 21 October can develop radiological instruments worth HUF 221 million for the Margaret Hospital; pre-2007 instruments will be replaced with much more modern, more sustainable instruments. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we are also planning to launch a programme with a budget of HUF 6 billion, in which we are confident that Margaret Hospital will be able to apply successfully. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-46	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President of the House, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Public servant or public servant? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will answer the question. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2015-11-09-47	Dear Secretary of State, You're gonna be a State Secretary or you're gonna go to jail... excuse me. Dear Minister, [[János Lázár: Thank you. It's all good. Defiance.]] "Secretary of State or going to jail," said a rural potenta of the emerging head of authority. The atmosphere of public administration is well characterised by the ironic remark. Unfortunately, under your leadership, the Hungarian administration is being destroyed, while more and more fishing in confusion. Dear Minister, That wasn't it. The promises were made about the introduction of a career model, about the respect of public servants, but nothing really happened; and yet, they decapitated the rural administration. During the past four years, they have made many senior executives, even the local political authorities, called the Archbishops with great pride. They shot up the county administration, humiliated their former leaders, who heroically carried the regional administration on their backs, and loyally and well done. Fidesz threw gloves in the face of his own new rural administrative nomenclature. Why is that? To bring in the newer ones who no longer need anything but the support of an influential Fidesz politician. Well, that's what's become of the career. So much for a vision based on knowledge and performance. Dear Minister, What about the career model? What awaits the young ones? What should experienced and faithful public servants do? Is it normal that they are under greater political and existential pressure than in the party state years? In a few years, will there still be people in the service of the Hungarian state who deal with people's affairs with honor? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.30]]
u2015-11-09-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár answers the question of his representatives. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-09-49	Dear Vice President, Dear fellow Member, If I may, I would like to begin by saying thank you for your interest, given that there is rarely any mention of reform of public administration in this House, and that there will be changes that will affect all our constituency and its voters in substance. I would like to start by saying that your speech is surprising because, in the last five years, since 1 January 2011, government offices have been set up, there has been a broad social and political consensus on the establishment of government offices and district offices. With regard to their professional legitimacy, the importance of their work, politicians and social actors did not object because everyone recognized that the competitiveness and functioning of the Hungarian state was an important condition of the power of the executive power. If there is not a fragmented, but a unified governance structure - as it was before 1945 in Hungary - then the state can be stronger, faster, more precise, and the nature of the service provider can be strengthened. In this way, the unified territorial administration was established from the fragmented territorial administration on 1 April 2015. It is true that 3,000 management posts have ceased, but we have distributed the money to the employees for the executives' job losses. For the first time, after 25 years, during Christmas 2014 and 2015 all non-leading employees who work in government offices and district offices received a HUF 25,000 Erzsébet voucher as a supplement for wages, as a result of savings made by redundant managers and abolished management posts. Now we're working on a new career. In November, we will submit it to Parliament; I asked my colleague, State Secretary Zoltán Kovács, to initiate five-party consultations in order to ensure that the public service is a predictable, stable and predictable career for all 35 thousand non-leading workers working in the regional administration in order to make the country stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-50	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Sallai Benedek and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister for National Development:. How does the Government protect Internet neutrality? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-11-09-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the future, the European Parliament's decision at the end of October will allow Internet service providers to favour certain companies and websites. Those who pay will receive faster internet or other discounts, and those who do not pay will only be able to access their website much slower. This means that Internet neutrality will cease and a two-speed Internet highway will be created. The capital-powered big ones can move in the faster lane, others can climb in the shutdown lane. The goal was to lobby capitalized corporations. That way, a person who wants to get on the Internet - to quote a classic - could be at a serious disadvantage. Think of a startup venture founded by young Hungarians: where will they be compared to Google, YouTube, Facebook? They will start with a serious disadvantage in the availability of their website or in relation to data traffic. This regulation is the most serious threat to the innovative sphere, the knowledge industry. The knowledge industry is based on free infocommunication, which assumes the neutrality of the Internet. The LMP believes that one of the basic conditions of Hungary's eruption is to make better use of our knowledge and creativity. However, this will be difficult, on a slope favourable to global multinationals. LMP strongly rejects the two-speed Internet. The neutrality of the Internet must be protected - all bits must remain equal! Dear Secretary of State, What does the government do in this situation? What position do you take in the Council and have you agreed with the Fidesz MEPs not to support such a harmful decision? How does the government protect Hungarian Internet users and businesses using the Internet? How does the Hungarian government, facing the EU so loudly at other times, protect Internet neutrality from European institutions captured by large corporate lobbyists? I look forward to your reply with respect.
u2015-11-09-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Ákos Kara will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-53	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Fellow Members! First, let us see what concrete measures the government is taking in Hungary to develop the digital economy. First of all, we agreed to make the super-fast internet available to all households by the end of 2018. We're doing this on schedule. We agreed that by the end of 2016 there would be no school in Hungary that does not have a super-fast internet. The target average bandwidth is 50 megabit/second, but in 375 schools we already provide 100-1000 megabit internet at the end of this year, and we start training for 100 thousand people in the first round and then 100 thousand more. Dear fellow Member, We are also committed to the neutrality of the Internet. Many people do not understand this issue, so I would like to say that we are not talking about a Hungarian legislative issue, but about a newly adopted EU regulation. It is true, Congressman, that the regulation adopted could be more precise. At the same time, as opposed to the Member, I believe that the forthcoming EU legislation does not conflict with the expectations of innovation and the competitiveness of Hungarian emerging enterprises. Honourable Congressman, Let us conclude, therefore, that we are talking about a general EU law which cannot answer everything and indeed cannot rule out the possibility of deliberate misunderstanding. Honourable Congressman, It is our responsibility that regulation to support net neutrality should not be reversed in the practice of Internet service providers. I can assure you that the government will continue to act in the interests of people, research institutions, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and not of mammoth companies. The Internet consultation related to the Internet may be evidence of this, where we will take into account more than 30,000 responses received and will enforce them when designing domestic regulations on the Internet. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. How does the amendment of the environmental product fee contribute to progress in waste management? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Bartos has the floor.
u2015-11-09-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, Hungary has made more progress in the field of waste management in line with the European Union. This is very important as waste management raises significant economic, environmental, health and sustainability issues. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. The principles set out in law and their implementation are a major step forward. These include life-cycle thinking, extended producer responsibility, polluter-paying principle, preparation for reuse, self-sufficiency, proximity, the principle of the recovery of biodegradable waste, the ban on cross-subsidisation and the creation of a more cost-effective waste management public service; all by enforcing the results of the reduction in costs. The proper regulation of cross-border shipments of waste, the certification system for waste management services, concentration on prevention, the introduction of a landfill charge are all elements of the establishment and development of a precise and transparent registration system. All of this represents successful progress over the past period. On 3 November, the Parliament adopted the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. T/6632 amending Act T/6632. Bill No. 1. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you: how can the amendment of the environmental product fee contribute to progress in waste management? I look forward to your reply and thank you in advance. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Thank you very much for bringing this question to the House, because it is definitely our future. In 2011, the government committed itself to a strategic change in waste management. The aim of the transformation was to create a more controlled, efficient, affordable and solidarity-based waste management public service, to increase the collection of separate waste, to develop waste recovery technologies and to divert waste from landfills. [[12.40]] The transformations have led to the establishment of a system that takes into account the interests of the general public rather than the previously profit-oriented systems. At present, therefore, according to the government's intention, the public waste management service should take into account public and environmental considerations in particular. However, waste management objectives cannot be achieved without financial resources. One of the functions of the product fee as an environmental regulator is to create the resources necessary to carry out waste management tasks. From this source, the public waste management intermediary receives budgetary support to carry out its tasks. The amendment of the Product Charges Act adopted on 3 November 2015 contains the following main elements: introduction of a vehicle product fee fee margin to reduce administration, simplification of the performance of individual waste management, clarification of the sanctioning system, supplementing with late payment, extension of interpretation provisions and clarification to facilitate interpretation of the law. The amendments will establish a more meaningful, more precise regulation for farmers, taking into account social interests. The administrative burden of stakeholders will be significantly reduced from next year, and in addition, the amendment proposal will facilitate compliance with the waste recovery obligation as an individual waste manager, with which farmers will be encouraged to carry out joint waste management tasks as much as possible. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-09-58	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture, who are they? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2015-11-09-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The biggest scandal of the past weeks and months is how the government plans and organizes the sale of the last, truly valuable national wealth, the Hungarian agricultural land. It is also a huge problem that they plan to steal our common property well below the real European average, but it is even more scandalous that by doing so, they do not actually support small and family farmers in Hungary, but build their own clienta by becoming farmers in this system with a few weeks of goldfisher training. Thus he became a farmer, for example, the original gas mechanic Lőrinc Mészáros and several artificial nails, roofers, lawyers and doctors close to Fidesz. Worse, this is how the former representatives of the Fidesz local government and parliament became farmers. That is why I am asking you exactly how many people have obtained goldfish farmers' qualifications between 1 January 2015 and 30 June 2015 and from 1 July 2015 to today. I thank you in advance for your answers, Mr Secretary of State.
u2015-11-09-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to strongly reject your accusation that the sale of state-owned land would serve any kind of clientship construction. I would like to interpret your question. If you dispute whether or not gold-cheated farmers' courses are justified, then you dispute at all whether there is a chance for anyone who is not born a peasant to become a farmer. So this is an ambush for you that I need to point out that you can't help, to support those who want to choose this way of life. It is not possible that we do not give an opportunity to end up not only in universities or only in vocational schools. Actors who come back from the intellectual world to agriculture are very important. Players, young people who live in the countryside and want to do farming are very important. These decent young people and adults must be given the opportunity to become farmers. I would certainly like to remind you of your particular question about the fact that the wallet does not keep a record of the participants in the gold-cut farming course. The publication and launch of the adult training course does not need to be announced by the training company for the wallet. The management of the database of complex professional courses and exams is neither one of the tasks of the Ministry, so we do not have direct information about the organisation performing the educational and examination activities, the location of the examinations and the number of successful participants. I would like to inform you that the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office has a number of up-to-date data on complex training. I would ask my fellow Member not, by virtue of his responsibility, to degrade and campaign loudly against people applying to host courses. It is a matter of life for the renewal of agriculture that as many people as possible take part in such courses in these professions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-09-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:.. Does the Government support Balaton Shipping Zrt. In private hands? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2015-11-09-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Balaton Boat Zrt. may as well be in private hands. press and certain assumptions. This concern is based on a Government decision of 2012, one point of which states that shares may be transferred to private or private ownership with the written permission of the National Asset Manager. As we know, until October 2017 at the latest, the owner municipalities have a capital injection of HUF 1.4 billion, on which the speculations have already started about the future of the Balaton shipping. Some say that there are clear indications that private investors are preparing, as the 2012 Government Decision not only states that until 2023 the shares can be bought and sold to the current owners only among themselves, but also, as I mentioned, that only the National Property Management Ltd. it may be handed over to private owners, even now, on the basis of written consent. Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. has a fundamental role to play in providing water transport and tourist services to Lake Balaton, one of the drivers of the tourist development of this region, as we know. This can be assured by a strong company in the hands of the most relaxing. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the government's strategy for Balaton Hajózási Zrt. is, what is his intention, and if he does not support this long-standing company in private hands, then what guarantees do you see that in the current legislative context there is no need to worry about private capital entering this tourism and economically important transport sector, the Balaton shipping sector. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-09-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, The Balaton Shipping Company. I fully agree with your comments on your role and importance. The Balaton Shipping Company. the public participation was granted free of charge to the Balaton coastal municipalities in 2008. At that time, the receiving municipalities committed themselves to a number of commitments during the transfer, such as the maintenance of the activity, reporting obligations, the election of the members of the board and supervisory board nominated by the Hungarian National Asset Manager. In the event of infringements of these and other obligations, MNV may apply different penalties. In the event of a failure to make a capital injection, the value of the transferred share package, HUF 1.4 billion, may be jointly and severally demanded from the owners' municipalities, which is a serious guarantee of full compliance with the local government's obligations. This season, Balaton Shipping Ltd. The aim of the new management was to create a more efficient operation of the company. There is currently no problem in the operation of the company. There is no risk that would jeopardise the fulfilment of the obligations undertaken by the receiving municipalities. We have no knowledge, not of the MNV, not of the wallet, or of me personally, that private investors were interested in buying the company. The guesses about the HUF 1.4 billion capital requirement due in 2017 are, in my opinion, premature and are only capable of weakening public confidence in the operation of the company. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-09-66	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office what does the Government do about the port investment in Balatonfenyves? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, will answer the question. It is for Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai. [[12.50]]
u2015-11-09-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President; I was surprised by Mr Tallai. [[Defiance.]] I've got the question right in front of me, which we did. Practically known is the fact that about 4 hectares have been privatized from Lake Balaton, despite Natura 2000 territory, despite being a nationwide protected area, this is about as much as the permission of a private contractor for the investment in Balatonfenyves and received 400 million grants. I was very pleased that the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, had just mentioned HospInvest in connection with the privatisation of the Eger hospital, because it is interesting that the person who was the vice-president of HospInvest is now one of the owners of this investment in Balatonfenyves, and began with 400 million state aid to expropriate four hectares from Lake Balaton. I look forward to hearing how Mr Tállai, State Secretary, will be able to answer the question I addressed to Minister Lazarus, which clearly shows from the question that it is compatible with you that, since the allocation of EU funds also belongs to your wallet, and now the environmental authority that maintains government offices will continue to finance the government's activities that are risky for environmental protection from EU sources? There is obviously also the question that we have also raised: how can they allow the support of more than controversial EU-important projects on the basis of existing legislation for the development of the country, such as the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive, to be significantly affected by other EU directives? And I would also have asked the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office if it had been proven that the facility had a role to play in the sudden disproportionate mud growth of the surrounding settlements and beaches, who would take responsibility for this and from what source it would be financed. That's the answer I'd expect with respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-09-68	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The fact that a company plans to build a port of sailboats and passenger ships in Balatonfenyve is already building it. The sailing association port will provide part of the space for sailing sailboats and the outer port will be available for chartering. You question the purpose of this investment. He asked how EU funds for the development of the country could provide money and resources for this purpose for a special quality service for tourism purposes. Let me answer that with what you didn't say in your question, but I would like to say it. The first sentence of your oral question is that the Balatonfenyves have planned for 18 years to develop a small sailboat port that meets local needs. So you gave me the answer, you told me it was a local demand. The next question is who will make up for the settlements from an environmental point of view. You also describe in your question that you have been legally authorised by the authorities and that otherwise environmental impacts are not expected in connection with the investment. So that's what you answered in your own question. How can the public interest be significantly damaged in order to make some people rich with public money? I'm asking you, what public interest is being violated? You said that this entrepreneur will meet local needs with his application, receive public funds, public funds, his own resources, and this will be a working tourism business. Then we have the answer to that question. Is the dual interest - your question is simple - compatible: the implementation of EU projects as quickly as possible? I think that the progress of the project can ensure accurate and precise accounting and implementation of your written question, along with an extension of the deadline. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Interior:. How does the population of a village along the Ukrainian border grow twice in one year? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2015-11-09-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure, like all people, I love my homeland very much myself. I like it when my county's on the news that it's about its busy residents, its historical memories, its excellent food, its drinks. Unfortunately, this has not been the case lately. A few weeks ago, I was forced to interpelle about how citizenship-business-soulless people made up of fast-track naturalization. Now the news is that the number of permanent residents in one but possibly several small villages is suddenly doubling. Of course, they don't live there. Among these people are those who pass through Hungary as non-Hungarian citizens for a Hungarian pension, and although they do not see them only once a month at the ATM or at the post office, it is worth it for them; for some reason, the population of a small village is able to grow from 500 to virtually a thousand people. If this was about family love, I wouldn't tell you, but it's not about that. It is about access to benefits legally and legally, but morally questionable. And if the answer is that this is legal, because everyone can register as a permanent resident where they want to be accepted and where they want to be, then I say that we are the creators of the legislation - although in recent years you are rather you - and can therefore be changed; everything can be changed. However, the problem is not only Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county or Ukrainian border, but it can also be general, and the number of permanent logged-in persons can be a reason for various manipulations. So I ask you, Mr Secretary, do you agree with what you have said and do you plan to take any steps in this matter? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-09-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, From his pre-documented question, we read that you know from the news and from the public that there has been a significant increase in population in some settlements. I've been reading up on the news. You referred to these as foreign citizens; however, the news is not about foreign citizens, but about Ukrainian-Hungarian dual citizens living in Ukraine or born in Ukraine. Indeed, when the possibility of simplified naturalization was born, some settlements appeared along the Ukrainian border, and many also checked in to Hungarian settlements, and there was indeed a home address. By the way, the identification of the address was the competence of the notaries during that period, and the notaries examined it, so the Ministry of the Interior did not examine it. In fact, in recent months the police have noticed cases where 30-40 people have checked into a property. In this context, several criminal proceedings have been initiated and criminal proceedings are under way for suspicion of a crime of so-called intellectual counterfeiting of authentic instruments. Overall, however, I have to say that basically Hungarian citizens have established a home address, and the figures show this, since among non-Hungarian citizens, Szabolcs-Szatmár county 240, Hajdú-Bihar county 482 people and Borsod county 337 people have established a home address. So when the population of a settlement really increased, this basically happened by registering Hungarian citizens. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-74	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they not realize that one of the most important goals of higher education is to promote social mobilisation, and why do they make it impossible to fulfil this function? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. [[13.00]]
u2015-11-09-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, According to a recent survey, an average Hungarian youth spends 92% of the average income on higher education fees, while it is 53 percent in the United States, known as expensive, but 42 percent in Britain. And then we didn't even talk about other costs, such as living, housing, or buying notes. It is clear from the ratio between the Hungarian tuition fee and the average income, it is very important for Hungarian families to have their children university in state funding. From the results of the survey, we can also conclude that social groups with substantially higher incomes than the average can afford to pay the tuition, thus increasing the social gap. Instead of facilitating access to publicly funded training places, the government has achieved that some courses can only be accessed in a cost-effective way, which means a serious cut for young generations. At the same time, it is constantly extracting funds from higher education. In the last five years alone, the government has withdrawn about HUF 50 billion from the higher education sector, and all institutions have suffered without exception. It should also be remembered that many choose foreign universities because of an unrealisticly high cost charge. Today, in many countries of Europe, you can study for free, and it is enough to mention only the countries close to us, Germany and Austria, where most young people go for this purpose. It shows the gravity of the situation that, while more than 140,000 have applied to a higher education institution in 2010, only 105,000 have applied this year. After all, it is clear that the acquisition of a diploma is a huge financial burden for a family. Of course, your answer is student loans, but understandably, a lot of people are afraid of debt. Therefore, Jobbik believes that all help must be given to avoid young people who are unable to obtain a degree because of their financial situation. After all, we consider it important that not only the middle and upper layers have the privilege of higher education, but also those from the poorer family. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they not allow the institutions to reduce the often unrealisticly high cost charges? Why do they not create the opportunity for the poorer but better able young to learn? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-09-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd like to respond to the calculation first, and then I'd like to respond to what you've said about higher education in general. For most of the trainings, there is no compensation quoted by you, but there is between HUF 150 and HUF 200 000 for the six-month reimbursement. This means 1.2 million forints for a six-month student education, so it's far less than what you said. The monthly reimbursement of HUF 1 million is neared by medical education, but there are very few Hungarian students who take part in reimbursement training at the medical university. There, the number of state scholarships can better satisfy needs. In general, foreign students take part in the paid training, but I think it is also important for this round to be extended in Hungary, as many foreign students as possible. What is the biggest problem with higher education, you know that if we look at content issues, it is that there are many people who enroll in the first year, up to a second year, but they do not get their degrees, they stop or finish their studies without getting a degree. In addition, we have been trying to keep student allowances at a very high level over the past period, which represents 20 percent of the budget support, almost HUF 34 billion. A performance-based or social scholarship can be distributed to students, a PhD scholarship, support for disadvantaged students, support for athletes for their educational costs, support for the production of notes, access to dorms. So there are a lot of options that can help us improve the situation of the students. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The proportion of graduates and admissions applicants is about the same in recent years, as there are fewer graduates, thus proportional to the number of students applying for admission. I would also deny the extraction of resources. You have seen the higher education lines in the last year and this year's budget, with a HUF 7-17 billion higher amount on them. And what has created a new source in higher education from within is the presence of chancellors, which has reduced the debt of higher education in the order of 10 billion. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity István, a representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Does the Ministry of Human Resources support the idea of János Lázár to create the new Csontváry Museum? It's an address. There is another question at the disposal of Sallai R. Benedek. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, spoke about the new Csontváry Museum. It is said that the government will put out an idea contest to present several photos of Tivadar Csontváry Kosztka at a new location. Péter Hoppál, Minister of Culture, tried to make it clear in the press that Pécs has been operating a Csontváry Museum for years, and there are still pictures of Csontváry in Budapest. A oeuvre exhibition is currently taking place in the building of the Buda Castle Honvéd High Command. It is also worth remembering that there are serious professional concerns about this exhibition as well. For example, László L. Simon, Péter Hoppál State Secretary and Mayor Zsolt Páva were scared by the protests of the artists at the beginning of the summer. The protesters protested that the images were not safe and that there was no guarantee that they would return to Pécs. Dear Secretary of State, Our position is clear: the May Other is in favour of increasing the cultural potential of rural people, not reducing the cultural potential of rural people. That is why we protest that the material or important parts of the Csontváry Museum in Pécs will be permanently transferred to Budapest. Exhibitions and exhibitions can, of course, be organised elsewhere, guaranteeing the security of the images and their return to their original location. The huge disproportionateness that still exists between the cultural opportunities of rural settlements and those living in the capital should not be increased, let us think of the Liget project, but rather reduce it by using development resources more territorially evenly. Dear Secretary of State, What is the government's intention? Do you want to take the museum from Pécs, or do you want two Csontváry Museums in Hungary? [[John Lazarus: Or three.]] Will it be said to host a new exhibition in the City Park? Does the EMMI support the idea of János Lázár and the creation of the new Csontváry Museum? Will the pictures be returned from the current Budapest exhibition to Pécs? [[János Lázár: We will return it.]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-09-80	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-09-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, His speech may have the advantage of drawing attention to the excellent exhibition of Csontváry, and we hope that as many people see it here in Budapest, as long as it can be seen in the Castle. We hope that more people will see it in Pécs, Budapest as well. I think that's important to all of us. In the past, the situation of these paintings has clearly become clear, and the government has decided here earlier to organise a temporary exhibition. The future repositioning of the images in the Hungarian National Gallery in Pécs was extended for ten years by the National Gallery. Since 1973, there has been a large-scale neo-renaissance building with an ideal exhibition space with pictures of Csontváry. This was the government's previous decision, and no other instructions were given to it by EMMI or anyone else. Minister Lazarus here and you confirm his opinion on this. Obviously, the government will put this on its agenda as well. [[János Lázár: He has already put it on his agenda.]] and see where to place the Boneshop pictures. But at the moment, the legal situation has not changed, but I think it is always worth talking about how we can present most of the Csontváry images to most people, either temporarily or in the long term. But for now, the legal situation has not changed since before. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. 40 million to the Merényi. Well, how much do you need to fix the psychiatric care? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, in the last few weeks, the psychiatrist at the Gustav Hospital of Merény has been at the centre of interest with more negative news, so with the unfortunate death that occurred last week and the jump out of the window. However, we could say the horrific conditions on which social media has drawn attention and, in part, the Ombudsman has also prepared a report. This shows the conditions that unfortunately prevail in the hospital. But it can be said that this is not the government's fault, nor is it entirely the government's fault of the state of the Merényi Gustáv Hospital at present, but the fault of the whole psychiatric care itself, in which the government has a role and weight. It seems that the conditions in the psychiatric hospital of Gustav Hospital in Merény have become a symbol of the government's dead-end health policy. We can also see how the government is trying to solve this. We can see that it doesn't really work. Eight years ago, OPNI, crushed by the left, could not be replaced by an institution that would fill this gap, and rather the government is also trying to initiate an internal investigation and a ministry inquiry instead of investigating why there is no money to organise psychiatric care in their own circles, in their own Ministry of Health. [[13.10]] They provide emergency aid to repair the hospital for HUF 40 million, while at the same time building the small railway in the Highway for fifteen times the amount of money, it also builds in the interests of the government. And there should be a lot of questions about the future of national psychiatric care, such as what took you so long, Mr. Secretary of State, to recognise that there was a mistake; what took you so long to get money to the institution; and how much more important it is to fill the government's close communication people with billions more, how much more important it is to provide tax-free forints to people operating casinos, for whom Viktor Orbán does not put his hands on; how long they wait to eliminate national deficiencies in psychiatric care. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2015-11-09-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know very well, Mr President, you just forgot to mention in your speech that immediately after the August case, the government acted and acted, and provided the hospital with a source of HUF 40 million, precisely so that they could avoid similar tragedies, and at the latest - we hope that the hospital will have to deal with this earlier, but at the latest - by March, it will have to be accounted for by the institution, and we hope that it will be safer for everyone, for those working there and for patients as well. We hope that this amount will bring about the renewal of the attic and the closed psychiatric area as soon as possible, as well as the gender separation of patients; they can also use this money for accessibility, exchange of items of use; and in the case of older patients requiring complex medical treatment, placement in a separate department may also take place. In addition, the Ministry of Human Resources ordered an immediate investigation after the cases, on the one hand we asked the Chief of Staff to investigate immediately what might have led to these tragedies, and on the other hand to the Center for Patient Rights, which is a state institution, we also asked for its examination, and we are waiting for their results to report on what led to these tragic events. So we hope that this will soon shed light on the problems that had to be corrected so that such a case does not occur again. But it is also important to say, honourable Member, that the lack of OPNI is indeed a huge problem; it was an irreversible measure of the Socialist Government, which, unfortunately, we will have to fix for a long time. But at the same time, 225 active addictological hospital beds have already been created by this government in order to dampen this deficit somewhat. If I look at the latest ones, the children's and youth psychiatric department started operating with 15 new beds at the University of Pécs from 1 November. So, where possible, these holes are clogged, and there was a degree of improvement that, even if not fully replaced, is outstanding in the field of psychiatry, as compared to previous years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Hungarian Zoltán, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask a question... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I've been going over it with one; I'm sorry. Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, who wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:.The agri-environmental management and the Eco Programme serve the environment as best as possible? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the question will be answered by Mr Lázár, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent on the subject. You have the floor, Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-11-09-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today is a day of surprise: when I count on you, they will not speak, and now Minister will answer. The agri-environmental management programme is fully professional, as I have the question of how we can view it as adding value and eligible for additional support in a grassland where there is no livestock, so that participation in the agri-environmental management programme is linked to sectors with higher employment needs, as only in the case of recycling can the farmer receive additional support. I would have asked professionally what made this happen, because if someone doesn't do anything with their lawn, so they don't invest to make it better, they don't do extra work, they don't keep an animal that's lost money, they'll be entitled to it alone - is this thought through? I would like to ask with respect - if you don't mind my saying so, I didn't know yet - the title of support had to be opened on the 7th, it has now been a few days, the program is still not finalized, and we don't know if there will be any change at all. Similarly, an uncertainty factor for kg is the fact that different information is provided in different brochure forums about how many applications are expected. So, until December 7th, in principle, who doesn't submit it, is going to be out for years, or is it expected that there will be another announcement of the program? Obviously, there is also the question of why, in the rural development programme, there is no degression over 300 hectares in the eco-target area - I do not know how this will help small producers if they farm over 300 hectares of production in size - while it is in kg, so this is the case there, and therefore the programme is not very coherent in this respect. There are obviously a number of questions about the programme, since, in principle, the period of submission has started, it has to be submitted by 7 December, and in some things, there is little evidence of coherence with regard to the nature conservation aspects previously present. I would like to ask, Minister, whether it is expected that this will be revised, whether there will be a second round, where it will be corrected, or whether everything will remain so, and there will be one possibility. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-09-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-09-89	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank the Government for the professional question that you asked, and in order to say that the two minutes are not enough to respond, so I asked Mr Miklós Kis, Secretary of State, who bears the responsibility of the government on this subject, to draw up a well-documented document for you, which will answer your questions, as he has also touched on the circumstances of the Bustard farming and the environmental conditions related to the survival of the Bustards. It also contains a statement that the LMP has already noticed a number of professional, resource allocation and even hidden speculation opportunities in relation to the support system for agricultural environmental management. I can only confirm this, so it doesn't matter where the resources for agri-environmental management go. We have carried out an internal government analysis, which clearly shows that during the previous spring period large farms have received at least two thirds or four fifths of agricultural-environmental resources. I myself thought, by the way, that it was predominantly small, but after it was a tender system, it turned out that it wasn't. The next system opened on October 7th. At the request of the farming community, we have changed it once and will reopen it in 2017. So it will be two rounds, in 2017, there will be an opportunity to make corrections and accept applications for those who have not applied or have not been able to apply. It opened HUF 174 billion in this respect. In terms of eco-management, which is affected separately, a budget of HUF 64.5 billion is available. He asked two very good questions, and I will also be interested in the professional response, because I asked my colleagues to prepare preparatory materials. One is that those who keep an animal cannot do it without land, and that there is the fact that a farmer or landowner can be someone without receiving support without having to keep an animal. I will now be indebted to that question with the answer, but I will draw up a detailed answer. The European Commission only forbids a person to receive animal aid without having a land. The other is the question of degression, not over 300 hectares. After I feel something in your question that points to something, I'm going to look into it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-90	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Why doesn't the Government do anything against industrial waste set up for Chinese honey, which can destroy many decent domestic producers? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Sándor Fazekas, who is competent on the subject, will answer the question instead of Minister Róbert Zsigó. You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-11-09-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the middle of February, I called for a roundtable discussion with representatives of the bee-keeping sector, professional organisations, where they told me their problems. However, I did not reveal these to the public at the time, and I did not submit my proposals in this regard, and nothing happened. In fact, the situation has deteriorated in the meantime, as Chinese import honey has brought about a real crisis among domestic beekeepers. It is no coincidence that 53 beekeepers have travelled to Brussels these days to act together with their German, Slovak, Romanian, Czech, Polish and Greek colleagues for themselves and for European honey. In the past, the same beekeepers have already initiated you to ask the Minister for Agriculture to amend the EU Decree No 1169/2011, as they say that this regulation is the main problem, since it allows you to mix honey from outside the EU into EU honey, only to indicate that it is a mixture of honey from outside the EU and outside the EU. This causes serious problems for customers. [[13.20]] Unfortunately, the European Parliament has not taken any action on this matter, nor the Commission, so Chinese honey produced by industrial means is often included in these products. It is a warning that otherwise honey tests do not cover components that could otherwise detect this forgery. So I ask the Secretary of State what steps the government intends to take to ensure that Hungarian beekeepers do not die in this state, that honey can finally be properly labelled to consumers, and that it can be shown whether Chinese industrial honey is actually present in these products, or that this honey comes from decent small family producers, as the traders otherwise sell. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-92	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2015-11-09-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Each year, the National Food Chain Safety Office examines the quality and adequacy of honeys available in domestic retail within the framework of a special target control, and the annual sampling monitoring plan of Nebih also includes the examination of honeys. In addition, in the summer of 2015, the European Commission's honey sampling programmes were joined by Nébih, nearly a hundred honey samples were tested and tested in foreign laboratories. During the latter investigations, companies supplying Chinese honey were specifically sought for sampling. The competent departments of county government offices have carried out follow-up studies in which no illegal, marketed honey was found to be used for the production of which raw material originating in China was used. The FM and the Authority are doing everything they can to uncover the honey counterfeiting efforts. As early as 2014, regardless of OMME's signals, the national chief veterinary surgeon ordered specific investigations to detect counterfeiting, and from 2 to 6 November, I ordered a target check covering the entire territory of the country for this purpose. The purpose of the verification is to establish the origin of all consignments of honey delivered to establishments for processing, presentation in 2015 and to monitor the use of honey of Chinese origin. In addition, the Ministry is currently developing a concept aimed at making honey subject to a stricter obligation to designate origin and origin at EU level. Honourable Congressman, The measures I have listed show that the government is doing everything in its power to ensure high quality Hungarian honey and fair domestic honey producers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "How long will the Government prevent renewable energy from spreading in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2015-11-09-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, At the moment, only 6.6 percent of Hungary's energy consumption comes from renewable energy sources, compared to which even the government's not very ambitious targets set a 14.65 percent rate towards the European Union by 2020. To achieve this, the share of renewable energy should be tripled compared to the current one or at least doubled. How does the government see this happening when, for example, the use of hydropower continues to be taboo? Are you aware of the fact that most of the world's energy production is currently generated by hydropower? However, although domestic options are more modest, current capacity could be increased by magnitude. Jenő Kvassay's water management plan, published by you, is also failing in this respect: it does not prepare not only for the effects of climate change, but it does not give rise to the production of green energy. How does the government also see the increase in the share of renewable energy when solar cells are charged with heavy environmental product charges, while the government is blocking the grid of electricity generated by solar power in households by various administrative means? It is clear to Jobbik that the move towards decentralisation of electricity generation on the road to the energy independence of our country is as important as the investment to replace the current blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in the medium term. As a responsible opposition party and a future governing party, we can say that nuclear energy and renewables can only guarantee the energy independence of our country by hand. Last but not least, how does the government see renewable energy spread when you have not issued a new wind standard since 2010? According to experts, up to six times the capacity of the currently operating 172 windmills of 330 megawatts could be supported by the domestic electricity system. So I ask the Secretary of State how much longer the government will prevent renewable energy from spreading in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-11-09-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The number you referred to in the introduction, 6.6 percent, refers only to the renewable electricity generation ratio, i.e. it does not include heat and renewable energy used in transport; in the case of Hungary, these two sectors account for the majority of the renewable share. From the database based on Eurostat's Member State report, it is clear that Hungary, in its 2013 share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption, has reached a level of around 7.5 per cent originally set for this year, which is close to 10 per cent. According to a study published by the European Environment Agency in October, the share of renewables in Hungary increased to 11.1 percent in 2014, according to the European Commission's background institution, we are on the right track to reach national climate and energy targets by 2020. The government therefore manages the domestic renewable energy policy, which sets out the targets within renewable energy sources, taking into account long-term aspects and domestic conditions, the security of supply, the burden-bearing capacity of consumers, competitiveness and sustainability. The government remains committed to supporting renewable energy and to making greater use of renewable resources in Hungary. The resources that can be used for energy purposes in the 2014-2020 period will help to increase this share, reaching HUF 755 billion in size. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We are going to the hour of immediate questioning, since there are no more questions, two of them have withdrawn their question. László Varga, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2015-11-09-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Recently, about six months ago, he visited Miskolc and made several promises in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. I would like to address some of these issues in my immediate question. First of all, you promised to extend the M30, promised a highway link between Košice and Miskolc. Since then, less has been said, unfortunately, only a 1.7-mile section of public procurement has been issued by the competent authority, and reduced technical content has also been heard on motorways where there may be level crossings. This would obviously be unfortunate in the case of a highway, motorway, which could mean a north-south connection - even with a later Slovak section - between Poland and Hungary. The question is whether the link between Košice and Miskolc can really be built further on the M30 motorway. He also promised a thousand hectares of industrial park, which is being prepared, but there are a lot of difficulties in the many enveloped areas. I have a suggestion here: please consider the area of the DAM is about 130 hectares, and to this day it is part of a parlagma, and the property relationship is very complex. I would like to say that brownfield rehabilitation there would be an emphasis on solving a landscape wound in Miskolc, the DAM area, in Diósgyőr, which could be used in the same way in the future, so it is not only necessary to develop such encapsulated greenfield areas, but also to develop the former metallurgy area in Diósgyőr. [[13.30]] I would like to withdraw because I have time for one more question, which, I think, is very important for the question of intermodal nodes. In this respect, too, I think the Miskolcs are waiting for answers about the Y Bridge; they are talking about when to finally be around Tisza Railway Station an intermodal [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] node, which has been promised for years. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-09-100	Thank you, Congressman. I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to respond.
u2015-11-09-101	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, thank you very much for your question, and I would like to thank you very much for not only asking questions, but also making a proposal on brownfield rehabilitation. We're going to look into this. In general, I would also like to thank you for using the possibility of immediate questions not only for political antlers, but also for discussing sensible issues in the tone of cooperation. What I can tell you is about the following. Promising is not a bad thing in politics, because sometimes it comes true, but Miskolc special didn't happen, but that we signed an agreement. So I think it's important, obviously, that there are people looking at us from Miskolc, that the question is not whether the Prime Minister or the government promised something, but whether there is a signed agreement in my hand, with the date of 21 April 2015, which is about what we will do together. In this sense, since we are bound by the treaty, this is not a question of intent to implement it, but of this direction, of the cord and compass. Even we villagers know that without successful cities, the Hungarian countryside will not be successful, so we will conclude an agreement with every county-righted city. In addition, as you may agree, we did not want to conclude agreements with these cities, the contents of which are made up in Budapest. This is about development opportunities and resources, and it was our idea that cities themselves should come up with development plans and settle with them. So everything you have brought up and indeed part of this agreement is not in this text as a proposal from the government, but as a proposal from the Miskolcs. As far as the specifics are concerned, each motorway must reach the Hungarian state border until the end of the cycle, including the agreement. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the deadline for 2018. In the case of the intermodal node, there are source fights between all major cities, and there are more Eskimos than seals, and therefore no decision has been made here yet, but Miskolc runs with good odds in this race. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-09-102	Thank you, Prime Minister. It's for the congressman.
u2015-11-09-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Almost two thirds of the Miskolcs live below the minimum living. I am fighting for every miskolc, and I can tell you that there is a need to change the policy of the government in this regard. It is unacceptable for so many people to live in extreme poverty. These were concrete improvements and concrete proposals, which I mentioned, but I am telling you that after six months, it would be nice to hear more about the intermodal node now. There were a lot of problems there with the settlements of the settlements, in connection with the neighbouring MÁV plant. We finally need real results. I specifically suggest and expect you to involve in industrial park development the brownfield rehabilitation of DAM. This is a fundamental issue, a landscape wound and a development area in Miskolc, which if we do not solve now, I do not know what will happen in the next seven-year EU development cycle. No one knows that today. So this question, I think, needs to be resolved now. And in the M30, once again, I see a north-south corridor between Poland, Slovakia and Hungary. This does not allow reduced technical content and this development to drag on. So we expect this development to take place by 2018. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-09-104	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-11-09-105	I would like to confirm that the agreement with the mayor will be honoured. As I said, motorways must go to the border, so not reduced technical content and hocus-pocus, but to the national borders, partly because of what you said, and partly because we agreed to do so when we entered the line on the election. The DAM proposal will be examined. The mayor asked us to do the same. Even the agreement that Miskolc and I have made has consumed such an improbable amount that I would like to pump it three times, but only an agreement that we can abide by should be signed. What's in this is going to happen, DAM is going to be on top of that, so brownfield rehabilitation, but after the city's elected leaders are on the same page as you in this case, we have a good chance of achieving it. If you expect us to do so, we will strive to meet that requirement. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-09-106	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Are you not afraid of anything? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2015-11-09-107	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, Mr President, A few years ago, the MSZP raised the retirement age from 62 to 65 years ago, then reduced the real value of pensions by 8 percent and took away the 13th month pension. We rightly thought that Fidesz would pursue a different policy, but we found that the institution of early retirement was virtually terminated by Fidesz, and then took away the private pension fund of HUF 3000 billion, which eventually did not come into the hands of those seeking retirement, as it had just been declared. Well, there has been a series of situations that have made the future and opportunities of people who are not yet reaching the age of rising retirement age, but who are no longer able to work, because it is simply impossible for them to carry out a job that they require, say, a rescue service to bring down a 500-pound patient from the fourth floor on a stretcher by 65-year-old people, or firefighters could be said the same thing. But I can tell you the drivers and a lot of areas, where, because of the reaction time, you can't drive a locomotive or a bus at 65 anymore in many cases like you used to. What are you waiting for, please, for retirement in the last years? Public work; community service, Prime Minister. At the moment, your system has basically resulted in your last years being spent as a community worker, around 55-60 years, or even after what you could spend in the world of work, or taking advantage of any other opportunity. This is the end of a career, the end of an ambulance, a firefighter, a driver or a chemist is the end of a community service. Prime Minister, I look forward to your reply that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] when there will be some real change, so that it will not be the fate of men in the coming years, decades. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-09-108	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-11-09-109	Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the situation is that the current government does not support early retirement. We are convinced that the early retirement system would destroy the Hungarian economy. There's been a lot of trouble. Not only did the people's sense of justice hurt by the many people in a rather good physical state, but they retired prematurely, but they also hurt yours, because I remember you saying this many times. At the same time, the question you're asking is entirely justified. The task to be solved is not easy, because on the one hand, of course, no one can be expected to do work in the old age - as slowly as we are willing to consider ourselves old, because we are approaching this retirement age - doing work with physical stress that is not otherwise suitable. Such expectations cannot be raised against him, but it would not be fair for him to lose his job. At the same time, we cannot reduce the retirement age, because if we reduce it, then, as I said, the Hungarian economy system will collapse. That's the job to be done. What kind of tools do we have? There's also the community service you're saying, but I don't think it's ideal, as if I understood your words correctly, you wouldn't support it. Firstly, we must strive to increase wages in Hungary, so that older people can be as secure as possible. So a good wage policy, which is not easy to create, especially in the case of an economy such as Hungary, can help. Secondly, where it is a public application, we create career systems, because there we are not only regulators, but also owners, we run these companies, whether they are transport companies or not companies, but also police and military. There we set up careers and give everyone the opportunity to do useful, meaningful, and well - paid work instead of retirement, but physically in an imperfect state. [[13.40]] In my view, it is also necessary to establish similar career rules in areas where the State is not the employer, but private companies are working, and to do so, incentives need to be created. That's what we're working on. If you have a proposal for this, I'm happy to meet you. There is one thing I cannot do: we cannot pursue a retirement age reduction policy that endangers the pension of pensioners who are already retired. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-110	Thank you very much. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2015-11-09-111	Mr. Prime Minister, We agree on a number of things, but what is really different is our opinion on whether it is permissible for men to retire early - we believe. It was you who, quite rightly, allowed women to retire after 40 years of employment. We also know the cost of this: its gross cost amounts to HUF 180 billion, and it will be set around here, where the cost of this is set. In the case of men - one third of whom die before the age of 65, not as in the case of women, it is 14 per cent in the case of women - who, unfortunately, die much sooner if they retire, since the Hungarian man dies ten years earlier than a Hungarian lady, it is clear from these two figures that there is no need to expect a gross budget of 180 billion, but much less, and when I talk about gross, I am talking about not having to pay public work to those who are already in retirement, let us say, a pre-arranged pension. Of course, we totally agree that when you were 32, you shouldn't be retired, I think we had that in common. Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-112	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2015-11-09-113	I would like to reiterate that, after the last two elections, the Christian Democrats and Fidesz made a very clear commitment to the pensioners, which was about preserving the value of pensions, we are not taking any retirement age policy that would imply that the pensions of those already in retirement would be reduced. I think your proposal would imply that. As regards the 40-year retirement age of women, I would like to say that we, for our part, did not consider it a pension policy step, but a family policy issue: women give birth to children, they become grandmothers, and they can help the family. So we supported the women. Excuse me, but I have this little devil in my head: I would like to remind the good guys that when they had to vote on women's 40-year retirement age, you voted no. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: No! We abstained!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-114	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, appointed by the Minister for his reply. [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Ikotity.
u2015-11-09-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It has recently been read that several municipalities with a population of over 3,000 people are asking for their school to be run back, because it turns out that if they do not perform this task, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center is asking them for a much greater contribution than the school's operation had previously cost the municipality. However, it is more worthwhile to operate these institutions for itself, which, of course, in the new system of school maintenance and operation, means nothing more than the salary of the household, the maintenance of the building, the use of the doorman, the replacement of the lightbulb, and thus, unfortunately, not a meaningful say in education at all, because this is not possible. The teaching work, i.e. basically the maintenance of schools, is the responsibility of the KLIK, the state. It is a feature of the centralised education system that all the important issues are discussed in the Ministry's Offices on Szalay Street. The high degree of centralisation is accompanied by a serious lack of resources, with today's annual deficit of HUF 200 billion from the school system compared to 2010. KLIK is struggling with constant payment problems, pressing serious debts in front of it. LMP strongly disagrees with this over-centralisation. We also disagree with the former liberal system when everything was passed on to the municipalities. We imagine a model of maintenance where, with the appropriate resources, the local government wants and is able to get its school back. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to the many other operational problems, it has now been found that KLIK is actually working at a premium when it comes to operation. What will the contribution of the municipalities do if they do not operate? Are they turning it back on the schools of the settlement, or is KLIK really working at a premium? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-11-09-116	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-09-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, His speech is typically in the category where it is worth being aware of the facts and numbers behind the headlines. You said more councils would want your school back. The reality is that every five years, the municipalities can declare - we are talking about over 3,000 municipalities here - that they themselves would take back the operation of the institutions from KLIK, or they would leave it to KLIK. The real number, honourable Member, is that in 137 cases the municipalities have declared that they would hand over the running of the school to the KLIK. The system was designed as the main rule of the local government over 3 000 people, but in 137 cases they were asked to be exceptions, and their school should not be maintained as a local government, but the state maintainer, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, should be the one that operates it. So in 137 cases, those who meet the tasks of running school on weekdays are not only talking about it from this Parliament, but also have years or decades of experience, yet a large number of people have asked not to be the ones who run the school in settlements over 3,000 people, but also the Klebelsberg Institutional Center. That means they see that you're in better hands with the KLIK than if you stay with them and they're in charge of these tasks. That, in some cases, there are differences, you know, honourable Member, because if there is a school building that, say, was renovated five years ago and is completely modern, it is obviously easier to maintain than one that has not been renovated for 30 years and has not been touched. We have created the Klebelsberg Institutional Center precisely because of its central maintenance and operation, so that we can reduce these differences and finally get them from the renovation framework, so that they can finally operate at a decent level those that might be in the territory of a poorer municipality, and in the last 30 years the municipality or even the council has not had a source of refurbishing the school. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Ikotity. [[He replaced Adam Mirkóczki in the notary seat as Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2015-11-09-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't want to judge your answer as you qualified my question, but I have to say that you didn't really answer the questions I asked. For example, in the case of Siklós, we can see that a HUF 104 million reservation could be made out of HUF 88 million. On the example of other settlements, the municipalities can save 10-20-30 million forints if they manage the operation themselves. Obviously, the details are at your disposal, and I do not have them, but some examples clearly show that. This raises the question that they are working at a premium, so there are significant differences of tens of millions. Where do these amounts go? My question was whether in such cases it would be turned back to the settlement, whether the local population, the municipality, would get it back. That's still my question. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-11-09-120	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-09-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, We wanted to break off with this exact emoji attitude, not by taking out institutions that are cheap to maintain, where the situation is simple, where there are no multiple disadvantaged children. Do you know how much difference there is in the number of children receiving aid in Hungary? If you look at disadvantaged people in one class, more than 20 times, if there are more than 30 times the difference between children receiving regular social assistance. Of course, where there are no disadvantaged children, if I get that out, it can be operated spectacularly well. But then, who cares about the kid you've been dealing with in your last two restaurants since the change of regime, because they've always had to rub off on simpler cases? That's why we needed the KLIK. That is why your idea is flawed, and it is therefore impossible to solve the way you have said that you would return and continue to shred schools in 3200 ways, because then, where you are in a really difficult situation, where there are many more troubled children in a class, there will be, once again, much less resources and much less chances for those children to break out of this opportunity, and they, besides learning, do not have much of an opportunity to break out. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms. Gabriella Selmeczi, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. I will ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State appointed by the Minister for his reply. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Yes, Mr President, of course I accept. Thank you very much.]] You are the word, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. [[13.50]]
u2015-11-09-123	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The evolution of population development is, of course, of particular importance for the future of Hungary and Europe. Many consider Europe a continent of empty cradles, because almost all European countries have fewer children than the population needs to survive on its own. Insufficient number of children endangers the functioning of national economies in the medium and long term. In 2010, there was a change in family policy in Hungary and we decided on important measures. For example, the period of the child reduced by the Socialists to two years was reduced to three years, and the almost completely abolished family tax relief was put into effect in a new, reinforced form in 2011. And it is a great help to families with particularly low income incomes that if they cannot write down tax benefits from their taxes, they can now write them down from contributions, leaving much more money than poorer families. Another significant change is the Gyed extra measure, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, which means that, for example, childcare benefits can be used without limit, and that parents can receive both their salary and the lawn. The first results of the next family-friendly policy are already visible, as the number of births increased by 3.2 percent in 2014 and the number of marriages has been increasing for four years. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the demographic forum was held in Budapest, attended by politicians, civil representatives, church and scientific leaders from 18 countries. Dear Secretary of State, I would ask you to inform us and the public, here at the plenary session of Parliament, which were the most important experiences of the Forum. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-124	Thank you, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2015-11-09-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It's good that we're finally talking about these issues. It is good that we are finally talking about demography, the demographic challenges ahead of us, which are worrying for Europe, for all of us. I think that we cannot close our eyes, we cannot pretend that so-called natural weight loss really is a natural process. We cannot pretend that it is not worrying that Europe's demographic weight is constantly falling, but I would say only two: in 1960, the European population accounted for 13.4 percent of the world's population; in 2013, the same figure was 7.1 percent. I think this figure shows how important it is to talk about the demographic issues ahead of us. That is why the government has decided to put demographic issues on the agenda and to keep them on the agenda in Europe. Each country is looking for its own answer to these challenges. Let's look for these answers together, and then let's all find our own answers. The subtitle of the Budapest Demographic Forum was: the family in focus. We chose this chapter for a reason, because we believe that the power of families should be trusted. We trust the power of Hungarian families. We believe that, however temptingly simple a solution to demographic challenges is mass immigration, we do not choose this solution, we rely on our internal resources, and we want to respond to demographic challenges by strengthening them. More than 18 countries attended the demographic forum in Budapest. The Holy Father sent his message personally, and the President of the Republic of Poland also sent a message; ministers, State Secretarys, politicians, experts, scientists, representatives of civil society organisations and churches gave their views. After the closing of the demographic forum in Budapest, we can conclude that it makes sense to seek family-oriented responses to the demographic challenges ahead. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-126	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-11-09-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Your answer was reassuring. We are pleased that we have also succeeded in strengthening dialogue and cooperation between European countries by organising the demographic forum in Budapest in the area of family policy. At the same time, we still have a lot of work to do, and we need more efforts to do this, so that Hungary can reduce and stop population loss without migration. What other experiences have been provided by the Budapest Demographic Forum in this regard, i.e. in the area of migration versus population development, and are there countries whose experience is worth drawing from? Are there any practices that are worth discussing further and that could be taken over in Hungary? Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-11-09-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think we have received many exciting answers at the demographic forum in Budapest. I would also like to thank once again all Members who have honoured us for coming to the demographic forum in Budapest, as we have invited all Members, whether they are pro-government or opposition politicians. Thank you to the people who were there. For us, it has been exciting experience that yes, it is possible and it is worth looking for answers outside of demography. Not only did it come from the mouth of politicians, but it was also from the mouth of scientists, internationally recognized demographers, whose words are worth paying attention to. I think that, as in other areas of governance, it is worth following this direction in family policy, to listen to each other, to talk about these non-fashionable issues at international level, and not to let these issues not be put on the agenda. So there will be a continuation of the demographic forum in Budapest, not only in the form of publications, but there will be other such events in Budapest, such as the Saturday family celebration, where more than 6,000 people attended the cultural festival in Millenáris. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-130	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When does the EMMI do its job? It's an address. I will ask Mr. Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State, Mr. Bence Rétvári, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-11-09-131	Thank you. I'd rather wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-132	He'll wait. Then the Minister will have to answer at the third instant Question Hour. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question on the title of the lens and special rights. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2015-11-09-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, You must know the Bible's history of Esau. Esau was the one who renounced his special rights to Jacob in exchange for a bowl of lentils. And you must be familiar with MVM Partner Zrt. The details of the offshore gas pumpkin, which is a lot like the previous story. This was the state company that gave up its special rights to cheap gas imports in Austria in exchange for a few hundred million forints in exchange for a company owned by a businessman of the Prime Minister's cable friendship. A common feature of both stories is that in exchange for minimal short-term benefits, long-term large profits have been renounced. As a Member of Parliament, it is my duty and responsibility to draw attention to the fact that, during that period, MVM, which has been crowded with public funds, helped METI's gas to the Hungarian market at an average price of 10 per cent higher, thereby artificially keeping the price of gas high, thus making Hungarian businesses less competitive and withdrawing up to HUF 3000 per month from households and entrepreneurs. Dear Minister, Earlier here in Parliament, he said: "This government serves only one interest, serving the interests of Hungarian voters with each decision, including the decision made at the Hungarian Electricity Works. Today we can certainly see that this was not the case. The former Minister for National Development, Mrs Lászlón Németh and MVM's then management, from Csaba Baji to Péter Horváth, are undoubtedly responsible for this. Dear Minister, If you're still serious about what you just said, why did you leave the cabbage to the goat? Why did you entrust those people with the establishment of a public utility system who had previously promoted the interests of an offshore private company rather than the interests of the State? I'm waiting for your answer. [[14.00]]
u2015-11-09-134	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-09-135	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the question, although its eclectic nature does not make it easier for me to give an exact answer to which part of it. If you will allow us, first of all, on behalf of all my fellow Members, we can rest assured that the quote from the Scriptures is very forward-looking from your mouth. There is already a tradition of this in the MSZP, and as a highly hopeful MSZP representative, I think it is good for you to rotate the Scriptures frequently. [[What's that got to do with anything?]] At the same time, the Scriptural rotation of MSZP representatives cannot forget the fact that the price of gas and the price of electricity were raised by the socialist government. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Scrolling the Scriptures does not relieve you of this responsibility, dear Member. With regard to the issue of the MVM Partner and the Public Works Company, let me note that this government, MVM, reduced the price of gas and electricity payable by voters by HUF 1000 billion. This is what we need to talk about here, Mr President, not about anything else; moreover, the government is not engaged in trade activities, so it does not deal with specific business transactions, so I cannot give you any meaningful information about the gas contract concluded by the MVM Partner, either now or in the future. However, I can tell you this: they must have acted in accordance with all the laws of the authorities; and if you assume otherwise, you will have the power or other authorities at your disposal if you accuse the Ministry or the Company of misappropriation. With regard to the Utility Service Provider, I would like to hope, Mr President, that, just as we have been able to engage in a meaningful dialogue on state reform and reform of public administration, we can also continue on how we can make public contributions and charges for public works even cheaper in Hungary, as well as for electricity and gas. I'd like you to help me with that. The MSZP has a great experience, because the public utility company must now be set up to recover everything that you, representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party, sold in 1995 and 97. This is what Mrs. Lászlón Németh and all my colleagues are working on to make up for your mistake. [[György Balla: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-136	Thank you very much, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-11-09-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Minister, not to take this personally, because in 1995 I started my law studies at the university, so I cannot take this personally to that extent. But I would like to make it clear that the biggest problem in this case is not that an offshore private company, close to Fidesz, ran home with the state's money, but how and why the state left this money with it; more precisely why the state allowed the business opportunity to a private company, if the state could have solved this business itself, because it was a ministerial decree that allowed this to happen. However, I am asking you if you are confident in Lászlóné Németh's confidence in the establishment of the Public Works Provider, who, through this ministerial decree, has enabled you to migrate tens of billions of HUF into private pockets for years. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-138	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-09-139	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I have unbroken confidence in the current work of our former fellow minister, Secretary of State, Lászlóné Németh, because of the fact that we have managed to establish the price-setting procedure and the system which has led to the fact that retail users in Hungary today pay much less for gas and electricity supplied by universal service providers, but we have managed to establish it during the ministry of Mrs Lászlón Németh, so my confidence is not only unbroken but also strengthened. In addition, our former ministerial partner is doing an excellent job of providing gas and electricity in 3.5 million households in Hungary by the end of 2016, which has not been the case since 1995. And in Hungary's energy independence, in the sovereignty of the country, who owns the gas reservoir, who owns the network, who does the commercial service to the population and industry, or who produces the electricity in Hungary, this is a key issue, and we are looking for allies; Mrs.Lászlón Németh is an excellent ally, and I consider you also an ally. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-140	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The misery doesn't have the title of party. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-11-09-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, On the proposal for a decision on the national minimum programme for the eradication of child hunger, Péter Harrach, the leader of the KDNP group, said last week: "The problem is that the opposition flew on the subject, including this concrete initiative, and when this material appeared before the committee, this was presented by opposition representatives, and this created a situation that could not be taken up. After all, with the support of this, we would have supported an opposition campaign on the left. Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz faction, went further, he said that this initiative is a transparent and primitive political campaign. Mr. Prime Minister, This proposal aims to prevent the 50,000 children who are starving permanently in Hungary from being in this situation. There is no other purpose for this proposal. This is a civil initiative that began by Peter Horgas; I did not know him, I never met him, he contacted me, and he asked me to be the one to support this question from Jobbik. That's why I sided with him. And Katalin Csöbör also supported the Fidesz congresswoman. Not only did he sign this proposal, but he participated in the event that was held in the Budapest Sport Arena; the representatives of all the parties came up to the stage together, we took over this proposal for a resolution, and later it was an all-party consultation, and then we submitted it, and there were even discussions with the Secretary of State of Czibere in the Ministry. Prime Minister, I think we should move past that XX. In the mentality of the century, represented by Péter Harrach and Lajos Kósa on this issue, party politics should be put aside in national matters, as Jobbik, for example, did in the migrant issue. My question is whether the government supports this proposal before the House, and you believe that the mentality that your fellow Members have shown on this issue will help to advance national interests. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-11-09-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, poverty has no party - but the solution has. I would like to remind you, with due modesty and even humility, that if you've been running your eyes through the last 25 years, even if you're an opposition, you may say that the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Fidesz government have made the most of this issue of child poverty. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Be modest!]] Good, I think so; one of the possible forms of modesty is that we stick to the facts. The fact is that in 2010 the hunger of children in Hungary was not unprecedented. In 2010, we set the goal of giving all the children in need a free meal and adequate security of supply. I can tell you that in 2010 the governments ahead of us and the Hungarian economy were able to spend HUF 28 billion on children's meals, and the 2015 budget will spend HUF 72, or HUF seventy-two billion on this purpose. [[György Balla: That's right!]] So stick to the facts. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nándor Gúr intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] If we approach the issue not from the money, but from the children, then I can say that 92 thousand children have received free care until 2015 and 318 thousand from 1 September 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-144	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2015-11-09-145	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister, but it is not possible to examine in itself how much the government is turning on it, but it is also worth examining the outcome of this. According to the Tarki survey, 50,000 children are permanently starving in Hungary today. According to Gallup's survey, Hungary is the largest proportion of European countries who have said that in recent years they have been unable to buy the right food for their children. That's what 47 percent of the families said, Prime Minister. Forty-seven percent. In almost every other family, even with such financial expenses, they cannot buy the right food. This causes extreme difficulties and delays in the development of children, which is otherwise harmful to the national community as a whole, but it is also important to draw attention to this because of social sensitivity in itself. So I do not dispute your results, but I would like to point out that there is still a great deal to be done to put an end to this situation in Hungary. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-146	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. [[14.10]]
u2015-11-09-147	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What we have just been able to do is something that no one has ever done in Hungary, and I think it is hardly in Europe, if at all. From September 2015, the mandatory preschool from 3 years of age entered into force. Acquittal of this may be given by the local notary, if he sees reason for it. At the same time, we ordered that all children in kindergarten, perhaps even all children, receive a free meal. [[John Lazarus: 90 percent!]] So what I can tell you today with a good conscience - as I get help here - is that 90 percent of children can eat free in kindergarten. This means that our country, Hungary, is today a unique European country where the child will surely eat at least four times a day on the state's money from the age of 3. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Four times?]] So you can't starve, regardless of the financial situation your parent is in. 90 percent of our children receive public food four times a day in kindergarten, and the parent's financial situation should not affect whether or not the child receives the necessary security for their care. It is a great achievement, I am sure there is still work to be done, but I suggest that we highlight the uniqueness of this situation, which is very rare in Europe as well. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for all the support you've given us so far. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question: - Is the heat program, the washing machine sub-programme of the Home Successful? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond. I ask Mr. Congressman if he accepts the person who gave the answer. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2015-11-09-149	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, From 1 July, the applications were submitted by those who wanted to participate in the Sub-programme of the Home Hotness Program to support the washing machine exchange. This is already the fifth sub-programme of the programme, which is accompanied by a serious interest, as before, and it also shows that the half-billion forints bid has been applied fourfold. The Ministry of National Development has expanded the framework for the programme according to incoming needs, ensuring that as many people can receive support. As in previous points of the programme, the washing machine change programme aims to increase the energy efficiency of households and at the same time to reduce the CO2 emissions. During the period prior to this programme, applications could be made for façade insulation, boiler replacement, refrigerator and freezer replacement and house renovation. The programmes of previous years, like the current exchange programme, have given rise to the interest of many, probably because the projects carried out have led to additional savings for families, in addition to the government's introduction of a reduction in overhead costs. These savings help to improve the living conditions of families, and we could also say that they are also doing a kind of greening in the energy household of families. On this basis, I ask Mr. Secretary of State whether the washing machine replacement sub-programme of the Home Gay Program can be considered successful. That is what I am looking forward to, Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-150	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-11-09-151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Yes, the invitation to exchange washing machines, announced as a subprogram of the "Home Gay" program, was successful as the previously announced and successfully completed cooling machine replacement, and was of great interest. As you said, the number of applications submitted was four times higher than the original ones, so the government raised the HUF 500 million budget originally intended for this purpose to approximately HUF 2 billion. The 44 thousand applications submitted from 1 July 2015 will soon be processed. So far, more than 23,000 applicants have received their supporting documents, so the purchases could start. In the next few days, we will get another 9,000 applicants to decide on the evaluation. So far, some 33 thousand households have received support, and this will increase by thousands more. More than 95 percent of the applicants who have submitted a valid tender will receive the electronic document of support provided through the application portal this year. In line with the basic objective of the Home Gay Program Series with a total of HUF 15 billion, energy efficiency of more than 85 thousand households has now improved. The support of washing machine replacements is also used to further reduce the costs of the overhead, as the purchase of new appliances can save up to HUF 10-12 thousand per year on the water and electricity bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-09-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Mátyás Firtl's one-minute rejoinder follows.
u2015-11-09-153	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply, because indeed, the feedback from the general public has all shown that these programmes have been very successful, both in welcoming a proposal for more modern equipment for households, and, as you have just said, the extent to which they have applied for this from among the population. We believe that energy saving, environmental protection, environmental management and care were also served by this proposal within households, and, as you have said, it has also greatly helped to reduce the costs. I believe that this is an addition to a system of family policy support, even this option. In any case, we consider it appropriate that similar proposals should, if possible, continue to help the Hungarian families to thrive in the future. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-154	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-09-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to use these 60 seconds to show the government's anti-red tape activities in this area as well. I mentioned earlier that applicants will receive the aid document by electronic means. I would like to draw the applicants' attention here to the fact that the document of support does not need to be printed, it is enough that the data required for the identification of the application identifier and the identity given in the tender are presented to or announced to a registered trader and that they can purchase their new, efficient, modern, energy-efficient washing machine at a reduced price. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-156	Thank you, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Where are the responsible people? It's an address. I ask the Member if he accepts the identity of the Secretary of State István Nagy, who has been appointed to reply. It nods with nod that it is. You have the floor, Congressman Sallai.
u2015-11-09-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps you didn't miss it last week,. It's not worth buying an article entitled The Lands of Mezort, which refers to a Mezortos announcement that Mezort Zrt. practically has a contract with the Hungarian State that makes it impossible to change the conditions of the current land lease fee, perhaps HUF 560 per golden crown. The conditions for this were defined and sold by the first Orbán Cabinet. Since our party is here in Parliament, we have tried several times to find out what is behind these state economic privatisations, under what conditions, how they were given. Obviously, I share the concern of my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, who regularly rubs my nose in this case, that there are not only the dirty twelve, but also several other areas privatized by other governments. Accordingly, we have learned that part of the land of these companies has been designated for sale, another part has not been sold, but it is in any event that the concept of unfaithful treatment is virtually realised by the person who gives 148 thousand hectares of state property on a far-off market for long-term exploitation for 50 years, concluding in a bilateral contract that it is not even possible to raise the prize. [[14.20]] Obviously, there is a question of who is responsible for this. I understand that this issue concerns not only the Orbán Cabinet, but also the former MSZP governments - but will there be a situation where Hungarian society can see clearly? Do you wish to correct the situation? Why is it that only such mesortical announcements can tell us what these contracts are hiding? What can we expect in this mob war, how many skeletons will be found, and what else will Hungarian society learn about the last 25 years? That is what I am looking forward to, Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-11-09-158	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-11-09-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, What I see is that they are grasping at everything to dissuade farmers from getting land. I see that all means are being taken to reveal facts, information that undermine the farming community. But let me tell you that the farmers' desire for land, the farmers' will for land, to obtain it, is a very strong will. And I can also tell you that there is no manipulation, no intention whatsoever to discourage the Hungarian farming community from finally taking possession of most of the state land, because the best place for the Hungarian farmers is the land. And the only good answer to all the questions you've raised is that you're going to be owned, and you're going to be bidding in completely transparent circumstances where you have to be present as a natural person, that is to say, they're going to provide you with transparent conditions that are the most reassuring for you. If he walked among farmers and had an ear to hear, he would sense the will, the desire in the Hungarian farming society that brings this will to the surface. I think that if everything that LMP stands for is true, that it wants rural renewal, that it wants viable economies to develop, that it wants to boost Hungarian agriculture, then it should be the biggest supporter of breaking down the large estate and giving it to small farms. Because the only good and right goal can be to create viable agricultural businesses, so that those who now have a few hectares can have a few ten hectares, and those who do not have one, can start their own business to stay there and be able to deal with Hungarian agriculture in a way of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2015-11-09-161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, you didn't answer anything I asked you. Who is responsible for the fact that the state's wealth, the former state holdings, which were decisive in the employment of the countryside, was issued in such a way that it would have such unworthy revenues for the State? Where are the culprits? Not only in your predecessors, where is it in all the Hungarian governments in the last 25 years? That's what I asked. I think it's time for the Hungarian society to see clearly. This has nothing to do with land privatisation, but it has to do with government asset management. It's time for us to be clear. That is why I am asking, Mr Secretary of State, if the LMP is now initiating and, today, I will submit to Parliament a committee of inquiry in order to examine the privatisations of state economies independently of all governments, whether the government will support this situation to be finally clarified, and we will find out how the state wealth has been given, who and under what conditions. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-162	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State will take the floor for a minute.
u2015-11-09-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, I have to tell you, you always have to look at everything at your age. Every situation must always be examined at the age at which it happened. I would like to tell you that the rent at that time is a multiple of the rent left behind by the previous socialist governments. So I can reassure you, Congressman, that the then government has also acted with full responsibility and full attention in this matter. And what kind of committee of inquiry you want and what matters you want to clarify and investigate as a representative is your right. Please do it so we can see you as clearly as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What does the government do for the development of the railway network? It's an address. I would like to ask the Member whether he will accept the Secretary of State János Fónagy, who has been appointed to answer.
u2015-11-09-165	Thank you, yes.
u2015-11-09-166	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2015-11-09-167	Dear Secretary of State, The development of transport infrastructure in Hungary must meet several challenges and social aspects. It must serve to enhance the competitiveness of our country by reducing the negative impacts on the environment with balanced economic and welfare progress at national level, improving the level of safety, enforcing climate protection aspects, promoting employment growth and reducing territorial inequalities. In recent years, Hungary has achieved significant results in the expansion of motorways, the construction and renovation of motorways and bypass roads. Special attention will also be paid to the development of the bicycle network, since 2010 more than 500 kilometers of cycling paths have been completed. At the same time, it is also an important environmental policy goal in Hungary that as many people use the railway as possible. In recent years, the situation of the railway company appears to be more satisfactory for the coming years, thanks to restructuring and government support. At the same time, the state of the tracks, the level of the rail network, is still below the level of real competitiveness. I ask the Secretary of State what the government is doing to improve the railway network. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-168	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-11-09-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, In the last five years, Hungary's rail-friendly government has shown a number of signs that it is aware that the backbone of domestic inter-local community transport is being provided by rail services and is playing an increasing role in local transport with the modern suburban railway system. We are aware that rail is an environmentally sound mode of transport, which must take precedence over both long-distance and suburban traffic, as well as the share of rail passenger transport in the EU's top priority. Rail will be the major winner of the EU budget period between 2014 and 2020 as about three quarters of the available transport development aid can be used in fixed track developments. The government spends about a thousand billion forints on rail development. In addition to the planned large-scale track upgrades and engine train purchases, a lower cost, but equally efficient removal of bottlenecks also allows for further timetable improvements. With these improvements, we will create an even more attractive range of services for the travelling public. According to the government's plans, large rail projects on the supported international TEN-T network will cover some 800 kilometres and a comprehensive track reconstruction will be carried out at 400 kilometres. The development of the railway line Püspökladány-Debrecen, the continuation of the modernisation of the southern Balaton railway line, and the significant renewal of the Kelenföld-Százhalombatta-Pusztaszabolcs railway line will also help the people living in the capital agglomeration. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Manninger.
u2015-11-09-171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased that you mentioned the South Balaton railway line, because this railway is a good example of why the railway is not competitive in its current state. In 2000-2002 it was 2 hours 52 minutes between Budapest and Keszthely, and even in the past year it was necessary to spend more than three hours on the train with Intercity. The track has been built until Szántad, and I am pleased that we are talking about the continuation, and if the construction of the South Balaton railway continues next year, it will not be 2 hours 52 minutes, but it is planned that the journey time will be 2 hours 36 minutes, which is equivalent to the Volán bus, but we hope that the service level will be better, so we can reach our goal of driving by rail here as well. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-172	Thank you, Congressman. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-09-173	Thank you, Mr. President. That's right. The modernisation of each track section - and I would like to stress that electrification in possible and justified places - will greatly improve the service. It will also improve the service by modernising the southern rail bridge, one of the busiest railway artifacts in Hungary. [[14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to stress here that the government does not consider the railway, the Hungarian railway, as a business matter. Today, the Hungarian national railway is a national issue, basically ensuring the rural population conservation capacity, giving the backbone of the Hungarian economy. The development portfolio, in cooperation with the management of the railway undertaking at all times, remains committed to improving the quality of rail services and meeting and meeting the needs of passengers and customers as fully as possible in both passenger and freight traffic. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. There will now be speeches after the agenda, and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély will also have the opportunity to speak and say what he has to say, since his immediate question has not been taken. Dear Parliament, First, after the agenda, I give the floor to MEP László Varju with the title "The past week's events" in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-11-09-175	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think we are lucky that we may be able to continue again with a polemic, and I would like first and foremost to draw your and the country's attention to this on a development policy issue. Perhaps some of the young visitors arriving here are from Pest County, who are particularly affected by what I am about to discuss. In 2004, when Hungary joined the European Union, it was a very important moment, as a major political alliance could have been formed, to which we joined, and at the same time the possibility of using European Union development resources was opened. However, there are rules in this option that everyone should know when dealing with it. The fact that there is a regional possibility to provide funds, i.e. to support the less developed regions, is that the European Union, in particular, wants to help them catch up. And this is the opportunity to catch up and there was also the region of Central Hungary, which included Budapest and the county of Pest. However, due to the development of Budapest, the towns and settlements in the outer edge of Pest county did not have the opportunity to obtain enough funds because they were in a joint region with Budapest. Therefore, in 2010 in preparation for the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, the document was available that these two areas, Budapest and Pest County, the joint region, should be dismantled. This proposal was made, it came before the government, and it remained there to draw attention to the need to separate it from 187 settlements in order not only to allow development of the agglomeration, but also to develop Nagykőrös, Cegléd in the outer districts of Tápióság, Pest county. However, this has been missed by the Fidesz-KDNP government and, as a result, there is no substantial funding available from 2013 to 2020. With all due respect, Secretary of State, the sum of around HUF 280 billion available to Budapest and the county of Pest is a fraction of the HUF 10 000 billion you are talking about being available in the framework of development. In addition, in order to improve the competitiveness of the Central Hungary region, you have done work, planning, which means that only a fraction of this very low amount is available for economic development. The fact is, therefore, that, besides the 1.7 million citizens of Budapest, for the 700 thousand people in the agglomeration and the 400 thousand people outside the agglomeration, you have not planned a meaningful development and development opportunity for this seven-year period. The decision that has been taken in recent weeks can provide funds from 2021, while you are already talking in a number of your statements about the fact that it is not really worth planning for this, because such development resources are not expected after 2020. Therefore, I must say, Mr House, honourable Secretary of State, that until 2020, you have essentially eliminated the potential for development of the Pest county settlements and economic operators. In these villages, as we have just heard, we villagers clearly see that there will be no possibility of development in these areas. Many of Hungary has done so as a result of your operation, and we must all protest against it and draw attention to it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2015-11-09-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh Fidesz MEP applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of Kálmán Széll, who died 100 years ago this year. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We from Vas County are proud to give the Hungarian nation many people we can be proud of, who have taken the history of the country in the right direction. Such was the first Member of the Parliament of Sárvár, the Martyr Prime Minister Lajos Batthyány and many others. As a high school student, it was a special encouragement to me and to all my fellow students that many of the important players went to St. Norbert's High School in Premontre as young people. István Széchenyi connected to the institution founded by Maria Theresa in 1772, but later Cardinal József Mindszenty came here. Kálmán Széll studied here, who was Prime Minister of Hungary between 1899 and 1903. The name of the former Prime Minister is now again recorded in Budapest, and now, on the 100th anniversary of his death, the Magyar Posta and the Hungarian National Bank also commemorated it with a single edition. But who was the prime minister of dualism? Born in 1843 in the Vas County Gastronomy, a noble family. His father was a politician himself, as he served as a Member of Parliament and a Archbishop. He himself obtained a mandate from the Szentgotthárd constituency when he was very young and 25 years old. He had a close relationship with Ferenc Deák, began to acquire financial knowledge on his advice, which he did on a high level. Although he had been asked to be a member of the government before, he only signed up as a minister in 1875 at the age of 32. The creation of the Austrian-Hungarian Bank for the issue of banknotes was a great success, creating order in public finances, increasing public revenues and organizing the tax authority. In 1878 he resigned at the occlusion of Bosnia and Herzegovina due to its costs. Retiring from major politics, he managed financial institutions and developed his estate in Rátót into a model farm. During the last phase of the operation of the Bánffy government, at the end of 1897 at the time of the ever-increasing crisis, he again joined the political life. On 26 February 1899, he took on the Prime Minister's mandate. The law, law and reference to justice of his government's programme has become a political calling. Compromise negotiations were concluded almost immediately. The opposition parties have contributed to the election of the officials of the House of Representatives and to the vote on the budget and the rookie law. The Prime Minister, who remains ready for compromise, has secured the internal balance for a long time and has broadened the parliamentary base of his party with the involvement of the National Party. The Liberal Party won a spectacular victory in the parliamentary elections in 1901. [[14.40]] One of the great merits of Kálmán Széll is the agreement concluded with the Austrian Prime Minister in 1902, which provided the right economic parities between the two States of the Monarchy, which we call a new economic compromise. Due to the so-called defence dispute, he left the Prime Minister's seat in 1903. After his resignation, he did not withdraw from politics, he remained a Member of Parliament, and between 1906-10 he was president of the Constitutional Party. After 1911 he only played a role in economic life. He received several awards: He was awarded the great cross of the order of the Lipót, the Order of St. Stephen, and was elected a member of the director of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that same year. He died on August 16, 1915 in Rotot. In person, we respect one of the most successful politicians of the age of dualism and the great supporter of Vas county, which is why the county seat awarded it with honorary citizenship in 1894 for its effective support in the field of railway business management. Kálmán Széll, his life and function now, on the 100th anniversary of his death, the nation and his narrower home, Vas county. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-09-178	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a post- Agenda address:. For whom the bell does not speak with its title. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-11-09-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In view of our daily political activities, we often wonder what made one right, what made one left, and we have to face the fact that the traumas of Hungarian families from the last hundred years have influenced who saw what in childhood, and how he lived the time through his parents when learning from them and hearing family stories were most typical. My narrower country, my home, Túrkeve is very good at taking pictures of Hungarian society in many ways, there is the hatred of the right and left, that, if necessary, we have the Belgians, who are neither here nor there nor outside, but at the same time we have the family traumas that fundamentally influence how we stand in Hungarian history. This year's memory of being dragged to the gulags. A retired teacher, the former village school principal in Csuktorban, tried to ask some people what had happened to their tourists in the years after 45 in 46-47. We have found shocking confessions from those who are alive, and it confronts a series of family dramas that has recently appeared and tells us what has happened to people. Six leventes, Lajos Csontos, András Kelemen, Imre Laskai, Mihály Laskai, István Ducza, János G. Nagy came home from a camp, they had their lavender caps on, it was enough to take them to Russia for three and a half years and keep them there, and they came home. For Karcagon, their associates were shot at the scene, and with this story, they had to go on with this weight. The story of the Máger family is very interesting, where the Máger girl was taken away from four little girls by the Russians, and from then on along the road she met, she could only tell that she was crying all the time, and when she returned home years later, her biggest daughter didn't recognize her mother. His cousins, Margit Máger and Esther Máger, were both taken away, both of whom came home with this event forever. One never had children because of the events that had happened to him, the other jumped into a well shortly after his return. The father who lost the Magic Kids hung himself. He couldn't bear that his children had been taken away. Imre Balogh, who was born in Tourkeve, had a severe eye, and was teased by many - something happened to his mother during World War I, and was teased because of it - but he went to the Russian front as a Hungarian soldier, fought against the Russians, fell into captivity, and returned home, and, as it turns out, his family had already buried him, and his mother, in memory of his next child, also named Imre Balogh, and for the rest of their lives, had a little Imre Balogh and a great Imre Balogh in the city as brothers. The only thing interesting about the fate of István Viszró was that he was only guilty of coming from a family of Swabians named Witz, which he Hungarianized, and that was enough to be taken away for three and a half years. But we could list these stories, as Istvánné Balogh Goldperger Borbala, Mihályné Teréz Tóth Hartinger, Istvánné Sallai Hartinger Róza, widow Simon Istvánné Tarsoly Erzsébet, Jolan Harmati, Margit Máger, Lajoss Vadinski, widow István Simon was taken away, all returned to the city after 3-4 years, and their lives were fundamentally influenced by what happened to them. The whole family, as they edited the volume, knew very little about these events, what had happened, they had not told them all their lives, and they locked it in, and obviously very, very few of them were able to process what had happened. One exception, Uncle Lajos Gyarmati, who, when he was 70 years old, committed himself to telling the story about what he was like in the abduction. Unfortunately, he passed away before he finished his memorials, but what was made of it is summarized in this volume. [[He's showing me the book.]] Kálmán Sallai, my father's uncle, also came to this fate, came home from the front, and the next day he was taken back into captivity after he had returned with health. His only child who stayed home died when he was 12. Kálmán Sallai never returned from captivity. Kálmán Szőllősy had a similar fate. Uncle Laci Csótó, who was lucky enough to return home, Uncle Béla Csaplár, who grew old on a decent teaching field, lived his life as a respected educator in the city, but he never told his children what had happened to him. István Csikós Tóth and those who dare not speak in the volume. These traumas live with us, affect our opinion, how we relate to each other, to the other's thoughts every day, and it's very difficult to process them. I would like to express my thanks for the preparation of this volume, for whom even the bell didn't ring, and to commemorate these people from Turkeve who have experienced it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-09-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, on behalf of the MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech: å Improved American-Hungarian relations? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, in recent days there have been a number of events in Hungary and one of our most important, most prominent allies, in the relations of the United States, which deserves to be discussed here in Parliament, if not in the context of post-meeting comments. I gave this title to my comment because on the part of the government actors, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and on the part of the Prime Minister himself, we have heard that Hungarian-American relations are improving, because the new US ambassador is calling for a completely new style of politicalization or networking, and is acting accordingly. In this sort of standing water, they threw a big rock. It is true that those who dealt with American relations knew precisely that behind this Fidesz communication it is, after all, that this communication is intended for internal political use, because American executive officials did not succeed in strengthening the position - the newspaper also wrote a lot about it - that the American government criticism with which the Hungarian government was concerned did not change, but the style changed, but the Hungarian government was not exempted from the subject of criticism in this respect. That is why I think it is important to talk about what lobbyists in the United States you have entrusted with Hungarian taxpayers' money - billion-dollar scale - where one of the former Republican senators, where you carry out continuous lobbying in the form of various foundations. If this operation were to improve the image of Hungary, it would not be possible to achieve this with money spent on such lobbyists, but by changing Hungarian politics, because, as I say, billions are being spent on polishing the Hungarian government's activities, while the US Ambassador is giving a really critical speech about Hungary. This criticism is true even if it is said a thousand times by ambassadors from different countries, or even by the Ambassador herself, on various occasions. It is also interesting that suddenly the current government, including the Prime Minister, Zsolt Németh, former Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, who is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who is also considered to be an Atlantist, has suddenly found another principal responsible for the United States, who is George Soros, and so, as I see in the various interviews, they do nothing but the migrant problem, the refugee question behind which they see the United States, where they see George Soros, and I am sorry to see and hear that these rhetorics are already being used by foreign policy makers and actors. [[14.50]] This is incomprehensible, because, in the area of the Soros Foundation, Viktor Orbán was a scholar at the Pembroke College with the support of György Soros, he also researched liberal democracy in this UK school, Zsolt Németh was also abroad with the support of the Soros Foundation, and I would add that József Szájer also studied abroad with the support of György Soros Foundation. I would add that as a high school student, I applied for a Soros scholarship, I did not receive a Soros scholarship, but I see that the Fidesz people were much more successful in this regard, and interestingly, there was no such alienation from George Soros at the time, and they were very happy to take his money. After all, as foundation researchers or foundations-funded researchers, that's how they lived. They didn't talk about learning at foreign universities with the help of György Soros. That is why I think that somewhere this Hungarian foreign policy has lost its way, it has also lost its way. Therefore, we would like Hungary not to escalate, deepen this relationship - in a negative sense - with the United States, and not to spend billions on these dubious lobbyists, either on the part of the Századvég or on the part of the Hungarian government, but on the part of the Hungarian government, but on the part of real politics, and then the relations would certainly improve. It is in Hungary's interest to be one of the largest NATO allies in the world, if not to be able to establish a relationship with its greatest power to help Hungarian national interests, which allows us to represent our Hungarian national interests effectively in the world as well. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-09-182	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr László Szabó, State Secretary, wishes to give an opinion.
u2015-11-09-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I have to say that Hungarian-American relations do improve, and, of course, as in a good marriage, there are always disputes. These need to be discussed openly, to be honest about problems or differences, but nevertheless, relations are constantly improving, and we are receiving regular positive feedback from the US partners. I would mention, for example, common measures to strengthen NATO's common security and collective protection. Last autumn, for example, we installed a quota of 140 people in Lithuania, from September we contributed four fighter planes to the control of the Baltic airspace, we adopted NATO exercises and I could list them. Ambassador Colleen Bell has repeatedly praised and welcomed this activity from Hungary. The constant presence of Hungarian soldiers in Afghanistan and the Balkans is the fact that we are doing the stationing of the heavy air transport regiment at the papal air base, the operation of a NATO military medical excellence centre in Budapest, the air protection of the Slovenian and Baltic countries, and the fight against the Islamic State very seriously, this is all evidence that we can cooperate very well. And here, in the area of security policy, this is a very important area. It is a welcome fact that our economic relations are also developing very dynamically, the United States is our most important economic partner outside Europe, only last year's growth in trade turnover was more than 14 per cent, Hungarian exports to America increased by 25 per cent, and in the first eight months of the year there was more than 15 per cent increase. The development of bilateral economic relations is ongoing, and 90,000 people are now employed by American companies, and this year alone, 10 new American investments have come to us. So if relationships were not good, it would be difficult to explain what is happening in economic development. Of the 50 best multinational companies in America, 40 are successfully active here, and most of the strategic partnerships have been concluded with US companies. The ninth largest investor in Hungary is the United States of America, and their total investment is currently around $9 billion. We return this by opening a new Consulate-General in Chicago in early October, and the Hungarian National Trading House Zrt. He opened his New York office this year. For the help of the Hungarian startups, we plan to open an external economic station in Silicon Valley, and further cooperation in life sciences, biotechnologies and the IT industry will also take place. So I feel that the American-Hungarian relationship is good, that it is constantly improving, and that the problem issues are constantly being clarified and discussed. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech. the title of the subpart. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-09-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Eradication of child hunger is a common national issue. For a moment, it seemed that all parliamentary parties agreed, since almost all parliamentary parties' representatives signed the parliamentary resolution proposal on the civil initiative on this, the national minimum programme. The representative of KDNP, Rózsa Hoffmann, did not sign, and I would now like to improve the findings of the committee meeting, because there I said that in 2007 the Socialist Government had a parliamentary decision, which was supported by 100% of all Members. It wasn't KDNP, it was already consistent, and Rózsa Hoffmann didn't support the program "Be better for the children," which developed a 25-year strategy, which is still alive. It hasn't been erased since. We regretted that on 2 November, just one month after the submission of the proposal, the pro-government majority of the National Assembly's People's Welfare Committee did not support the inclusion of the proposal in the series. The only more shocking than rejection was the style that the majority of pro-government representatives held in the debate. Last Wednesday, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, we decided to introduce a legislative amendment to facilitate the work of the governing party and to introduce a complete amendment on how to solve this problem in Hungary today. We submitted it on Wednesday evening, and we hope that we will not bring about this amendment of the law - because we want to solve the problem itself - as with the national minimum programme, that it will not be swept off the table. Then let's talk a little bit about how important it was today for all parliamentary parties, I still remember, a week before the national minimum day was held on 26 September, civilians held a press conference asking Members of Parliament to attend this press conference. This press conference wasn't that important to all parties at the time. Then no one except Katalin Csöbör and me attended this press conference, everyone said for some reason that he couldn't come. In fact, I remember when, on Friday, we didn't know whether Jobbik would sign this resolution proposal or whether they would even attend this event on Saturday, because at that time we heard the news that he would not be there, and even to be critical, that Katalin Csöbör himself couldn't tell whether he would be there on Friday. Compared to this, on Saturday, Katalin Csöbör carried two disadvantaged children to the stage to demonstrate to those there how important it is today in Hungary to eradicate hunger. Compared to this, last week with all the reasons and especially the fact that the left-wing parties are on this issue... and that's why the ruling party is going to reject it. I think that hunger is not left-wing, it is not right-wing, it is not liberal. Child hunger is unacceptable to anyone. Compared to this, the Prime Minister said in his speech that they are already helping to eradicate child hunger by giving almost 90 percent of children in kindergarten and kindergarten a free meal in the institutions. I have just received a data from a city with county rights that since the introduction of free meals and canteen reform - and here is the point: the menu reform - the total number of dining rooms supplied decreased by 8.5 percent in November 2015 compared to September 2015. [[15.00]] In the kindergarten age group, with a high number of free meals, the number of people eating there decreased by 0.8 percent. However, now there are two data that shocked me: during the period under examination, the highest decline was observed for primary and secondary school age groups, which in both age groups, was a decrease of 10.3 and 13.9 percent for all dining rooms. Colleagues - Colleagues! - We've got a 12.1 percent decrease. I think we've been able to pour the baby out with the bathroom water. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-09-186	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2015-11-09-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I also quoted to President Tobias, allow me to quote to you from the beginning of the year the sentence of a sociologist you have known: in 2008 Hungary was the only state to have suffered a crisis, which did nothing, nothing at all, not a single match, in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There's never been a country like this before. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Nándor Gúr: Do not repeat, do.]] This was said by Zsuzsa Ferge of the Hungarian Socialist Party, who was also known to you and in many cases highlighted, at the beginning of this year. By doing so, he issued a certificate of how, in fact, when you are in power, both poor people and poor children are dealt with as socialists. [[Anita Herring: Are you still pointing back? Really?]] Not right-wing, not politician, but Zsuzsa Ferge, one of your most supported and respected sociologists, said this about you. At the same time, we know that the Socialist Party usually only has excuses when it is on the government. Fortunately, however, this government had measures to reduce child poverty, child hunger and poverty in general. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] You know very well that there are now 241 thousand fewer people at risk of poverty than there have been a few years ago, because if we look at those very complex indicators, which include any possibility or danger of living in poverty, we can certainly see that the number of these people has fallen by nearly a quarter of a million in recent years. About the initiative itself: perhaps you know that you could have been at the Sport Arena at that concert because Minister Zoltán Balog and the Hungarian Government gave it to you free of charge for one day, and indeed for two days, because before that you had to build the stage, you had to do preparatory work, but you gave a free day for the national minimum event. If the government hadn't done this, you wouldn't have had a place to go, there wouldn't have been a place to say that the Hungarian Socialist Party would also support the goal that all Hungarians with common sense - not just politicians, everyone else - think that clearly it is necessary to do something about child hunger and that child poverty should be curbed. We all think so, but to draw the public's attention to this, everyone's attention to the person next door, and obviously the municipality is in the settlement, and the state is in the territory of the country, so that we can draw attention to this, so it gave it, in agreement with the efforts to reduce child poverty, child hunger, the government will be there free of charge for that day. If you hadn't done that, we probably wouldn't be talking about this right now. The other question is that, as Népszabadság wrote next Monday, very few people went to this event. Both Mr Horgas and his experts regularly consult with the various officials of our ministry, and the work in which they have also heard a lot of news from the ministry about exactly how this activity is taking place, as there have been a lot of well-intentioned people involved in the work, who may have heard new things from the government. This kind of professional dialogue will continue, despite the fact that you here in Parliament have launched this kind of political action on this, because the matter is important to us. If someone can help us better target benefits, we will be happy to take the initiative and obviously accept it. It's a real job. So they're not just talking about it, they're actually meeting and they're really agreeing on better methods. What has also been said here in Parliament by Prime Minister, I think it is clear that when the Hungarian Socialist Party could have done so, it has not done anything to solve this problem. You provided HUF 29 billion in this budget, and we accepted HUF 58 billion this year. Of course, you did not support this in the Budget Act, but the Fidesz-KDNP majority accepted it. This has doubled the amount of resources spent on starving children in five years. I don't think there's anything else that would have doubled. The economy is growing, but there is not even such an increase. So, apparently, this government had a top priority to take action against child hunger. As of next year, there will be an even higher amount, HUF 71 billion in the budget, and 90 percent of children in kindergarten and kindergarten will receive a full free meal. That's how we secure the source. And this government also made a record of supporting the summer meal with HUF 3 billion, the highest possible amount, which allowed 134 326 people in need to eat in the summer as well. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The next task we are going to provide is to provide a similar treatment to summer during the rest of the holidays, autumn, winter and spring break. We're gonna work on that. You want to make political capital out of this, I see, just forge it for yourselves, and we're going to keep working to ensure that as many children as possible can grow up safely. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-188	Welcome, fellow Members. On behalf of Mr Ander Balázs, on behalf of Jobbik, on the next day's agenda, he said: "Deprived to stupidity - Integration with question marks II." You have the floor.
u2015-11-09-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As cliche as it may be, we must accept the relevance of the thousand - year - old wisdom saying that the stakes of education are none other than the future. According to the unanimous opinion of my pedagogue colleagues, one of the main problems is that the basic cell of society, the family, can no longer provide a suitable educational environment for children. The two-and-a-half decades from the change of regime to today have brought a greater social crisis than ever before, and the educational function of family communities has weakened. The number of divorces, truncated families, single-parent families, the ratio of more unstable partnerships increases. The patterns of behaviour are no longer transmitted by contemporary communities... I mean, I'm sorry, the big problem is that they're transmitting it, but in what way? In such a way that the media has assumed control of these programs, they are dictated by the media. At the same time, external relations have become more and more progressive, so that the school system is becoming increasingly less capable of fulfilling the tasks it expects. In particular, complaints about aggression, rude speech, rude speech, rudeness, and indiscipline are considered to be common among vocational school teachers. The slowing down of emotional culture and the increasing number of functional illiterates are almost age-related. This is supported by the pregnographic evidence in statistics analysing labour market processes that young unemployed people with only vocational education and training are represented at a much higher level than their number. But is it a wonder that even in some regions and institutions, such as the rural vocational school where I taught for ten years, the proportion of disadvantaged or cumulative disadvantaged students will reach two thirds? An important fundamental truth would also be the item according to which Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies. One of the most important issues of the 20th century will be integration and a predictable disaster resulting from its lack of integration. In the Western world, the integration of immigrants from different cultures and their or even their many generations of descendants into the majority society, while in Central Europe and, of course, in Hungary, integration of the Roma population that has lived here for centuries and has been growing and has created growing challenges for political decision-makers. As the hell knows where their heads are stuck, everyone outside their politically correct ostrich sees and knows, the concept of a multicultural society defined by neoliberal doctrines has failed. In the autumn of 2010, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, spoke of the failure of this sociological construct. In some ways, breaking up with politically correct speech, he pointed out that many people do not want to be integrated into European societies, retain their full linguistic, religious and traditional separation, and form a continuance within the majority society. But the world-famous sociologist at Harvard University, Robert Putnam, also decided on liberal dogmas believed to be inviolable, when in his study he demonstrated how the presence of difference, parallel societies in a community undermines the foundations of social capital, and how the multiculturalism so far considered to be valuable negatively affects social processes, how isolation increases, how trust and happiness indices deteriorate. [[15.10]] It is often said that catching up with the Roma will become a national issue of fate for the coming decades. For a long time, they believed that the school would speed up the process of integration, but the period since Durkheim and Bourdieu proved that, in principle, the school's tasks include a range of social functions, such as socialisation and mobility, but in practice, inequalities are often preserved. As Antal Százdi and his co-author put it in a study, it doesn't matter what proportion of future generations will be taxpayers or aided. And this is even the better case, because the sociocultural misery is also a hotbed for crime, and the permanent demographic explosion and continuous social disintegration constitute an incredibly dangerous one. But let me quote the composer pair mentioned above:. The social rest of the near future depends on the proper socialization, catching up, proper education and education of children with disadvantages. So the real problem is here, and if we consider that the number of gypsy students has doubled in primary school over 20 years, then we really need to do something as soon as possible. "You can see it in your article about the threat to the future." What we do in Hungary, and I will tell you about it in the following. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-09-190	On the next agenda, Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of Jobbik, spoke with the title "The Hungarian Patient." You have the floor.
u2015-11-09-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a hard statement to state on the label that the Hungarian patient is either a patient or a patient, but this statement cannot be from the air. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, is a global organisation that continuously monitors the economic and social indicators of the Member States and the processes underlying them. Well, it is this organisation that maps, monitors and gives an opinion on the health status of people, related indicators, indicators and all health indicators maintained and operated by the state. In recent weeks, this organization has published a publication that has examined not only the health systems of Hungary but also the health systems of all its Member States, and it is important that we talk about the findings that were made in it, as it cannot only be passed by a wave in public interest, but also by political actors. The document "Health at the Glance" listed government expenditures, the health status of people, the causes of death, the death of children, but also the harmful habits that may affect our health. The publication did not exactly paint a flattering picture of Hungary, and it does not really compare it with Uganda or Tahiti, but with developed states that are member states of the OECD. In this connection, the Hungarian Ambassador to the OECD, Zoltán Cséfalvay, former State Secretary, said that there has been a positive trend change in healthcare expenditure in Hungary and that this direction needs to be strengthened and deepened. However, I do not think that it is possible to share the joy with which the former Fidesz government member seemed to say that everything is okay. But let's look at some of the key examples, because it makes sense. Let's look at life expectancy at birth in Hungary: this is 75.7 years in Hungary compared to 80,5 years, almost 76 years is the average life expectancy at birth. With this, we are in the same field as China, Colombia, Brazil, and we are far ahead of Slovenia, the Czech Republic, and the list is also led by Japan and Spain. But the average lifetime of men is even worse than the Hungarian lifetime, which is 72.2 years. And if we look behind the Hungarian statistics, then we can see that there are counties in North-East Hungary, districts where the life expectancy of men is hardly more than 55 years at birth. Let's look at circulatory diseases. It shows very well that our country has 260 cases of ischemic heart disease - these are coronary artery problems, typically caused by coronary artery stenosis - Hungary is at the top of the list with 260 deaths per 100 thousand, which in Hungary, is demanding 26 thousand deaths. Compared to this: the same number is only 5,200 people in Portugal with roughly the same population. But we can say that the same problem is the death of cardiovascular diseases, so to speak, the whole body. Unfortunately, Hungary is at the forefront in this, too. Another very serious and related category is obesity, the issue of pathological fat, in which 28,5 percent of the Hungarian population is affected, otherwise only Mexico, New Zealand and America have rather bad indicators. But even worse and even more regrettable is the incidence of cancer, in which men perform far and far. Unfortunately, we're on the list of shame and shame. Although there were good prevention methods in prostate cancer and cervical cancer that helped to reduce disease, we failed to make overall progress. The issue of public spending is also interesting. We see that Hungary has not only turned on it by the state, but not even the so-called out of pocket, so the financing paid from its own pocket will not succeed in jumping the OECD average in terms of Hungarian health expenditure. We are far from behind, and practically both Chile and Slovakia and the Czech Republic are ahead of us, and from Chile, I don't think anyone would think that they have more public health expenditure than we do. It would be interesting to discuss this in a full day of debate, even why the state does not spend on health in the country of small railways and stadiums in the Highlands. The drugstore, by the way, has a similar trend. One last aspect: the average salary of Hungarian nurses and Hungarian workers on the issue of the resources and wages of health workers, translated into dollars, but is also far from the last in purchasing power parities. So the Hungarian nurses are looking for the worst. I believe that these data, which I have said, are proof - and these are OECD data - that the Hungarian patient is sick, and that the government cannot or may not want to cure our diseases. I ask the government to consider the progress that can be made in health funding, so that we are not at last in the OECD's disgraced health indicators. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-09-192	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr President Novák, on behalf of Jobbik, is the government willing to carry out at least a review of the legality and accountability of the public orders of companies belonging to Lajos Simicska's interests in the economic empire created behind Fidesz? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the previous cycle, at least about this is how Internet users commented on the public money thefts called the public procurement procedure, which were put to the top, typically at the time with companies belonging to Lajos Simicska's interests. Therefore, Jobbik initiated the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry committee in spring 2012 to review the legality of the state orders of Lajos Simicska and his business partner Zsolt Nyerges and the economic company empire behind the Fidesz government. Although the committee of inquiry should be set up on the motion of one fifth of the Members of Parliament under the Parliament Act, Fidesz has essentially prevented this, as the Fidesz-managed prosecutor's office has wiped out our complaints about this. After all, even after the setting-up of the committee of inquiry has been prevented, we have made various reports on the basis of the data at our disposal, in the absence of a better one. For example, after I informed the Prime Minister on a written question that, if the state propaganda and data collection carried out under the title of national consultation is no longer enough, even to the greatest pleasure of Gábor Kubatov, but also sometimes to campaign government from hundreds of millions of taxpayers, recently billions, it is precisely through what companies and what orders they make. It turned out from one of these written questions that IMG Kft. is a member of Lajos Simicska's interests. has received a mandate in the procurement procedure without publication of one of the notices. For the entire campaign, for example, we are talking about a case at the end of 2012, and 200 million HUF has been paid. That's 60 million forints on the billboards. I chose this one specific item, and I got the market offers, and it was a thousand billboards. Just as much as a few months apart, Jobbik turned its own assets into a political campaign. [[15.20]] On this basis, I was able to compare it quite easily, and on this basis it was established that this advertising company belonging to Lajos Simicska's interests was entrusted for eight times the market price, i.e. a surplus of 700 per cent, not a surplus of 10-20-30 per cent. We are talking about an eight-fold price difference, but despite the fact that I filed a complaint for misappropriation, the prosecution wiped it out. I quote the reasons for this:. The fact that the consideration of a service subject to a contract may exceed the market price is not suitable for the purpose of establishing a criminal offence against the property designated by the indictor, shall not give rise to criminal liability. In fact, according to the D.A.'s office, there's no need to investigate a case like this. There's nothing suspicious here, actually, so let's all go with God. And because of your legislative amendment, if a Member of Parliament filed a complaint, we could at least appeal a long time ago, have had an appeal, have had a complaint, we now have no such opportunity. Therefore, in the absence of a better approach, I appeal to the government, because, after the affair with Lajos Simicska has deteriorated, I hope that if we say that Andy Vajna's fabulous wealth, which surpasses even Lajos Simicska's, they will not be willing to examine it, but perhaps they will give one: to support the setting up of such an inquiry committee; I think it would be good for the government to say that he would be glad that the Parliament would finally create such one. On the other hand, I trust that you, who have access to this information, to these various government orders, from which we have only been able to press one or two with a written question, for example, and that you can see the consequences of the clearest public-interest withdrawal, how this has been swept down by the prosecution, so we expect you to report these issues yourself. I therefore urge you to do so in these specific or even other cases. Furthermore, that the government finally accepts our comprehensive proposals to combat political crime and government corruption, from which I now mention only half a dozen: the abolition of immunity; the introduction of the immeasurability of economic crimes committed by politicians; the publicity of the declarations of property of relatives; regular, up to four years' worth-of-a-cycle, more commonly known as propertyisation of Members and State Secretarys; the issue of dual citizenship, though; or if we could get to the punishments once, we would be very happy to talk about the double penalty imposed on politicians by Jobbik, or even the total confiscation of property. So here is just a half a dozen proposals in a better-looking package of programmes to combat political crime. Follow us, and support our proposals; do not wait for Jobbik to come to the government. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-194	Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-11-09-195	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to respond to your speech, which also raises serious allegations. First of all, I would like to suggest to you that you also ask these questions in the media linked to Lajos Simicska. The blind can see that Jobbik's politicians are much more frequent than before in televisions and radios belonging to this businessman [[Ancestors of Novak: But not to the legal extent!]] And while you are quite often visiting here, you have not asked these questions at any time. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] These suggestions have never been made there. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] At the same time, the speech is embarrassing. It was embarrassing because it was completely contrary to what your party president represents. Gábor Vona on Jobbik's TV recently suggested that Lajos Simicska lead Jobbik's anti-corruption prosecution. That's a two-faced attitude. [[Sense of humor!]] This two-faced attitude can also be seen in other cases. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State, two years ago...]] Allow me to give you an example, Congressman. In Jobbik's previous election programme, it was clear that the land should be returned to farmers. On page 54 of last year's election program, there are words about the need for a new division of land. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] A few months go by, and they represent the complete opposite: they are opposed to the programme for the farmers, they are opposed to the Hungarian family farmers getting to the land. [[György Szilágyi: No, we are against Simicska!]] We do not know what the reason for this behaviour is, but we would like to make one thing clear, to record: you are currently on the side of the big owners. Accordingly, it is no exaggeration to ask: first settle their own ranks, clearing the affairs of large landowners should begin with Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[Who wrote this? Intercom from Jobbik: Long live the gas mechanics! György Szilágyi: I swear they're better than the Communists! Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-09-196	Mr Nándor Gúr applied for a speech after the next agenda: 'It is unforgettable'. I give you the floor.
u2015-11-09-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's not unforgettable what happened earlier, that on the part of Fidesz, on the part of the government, they're playing Simics... [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Really, you missed the blacksmith's guts!]] You guys beat up the Constitution, and I'm not surprised at anything, you've given birth to a scandalous media law, and now you're even trying to load the Secret Service people to the content companies. So, these really belong to the unforgettable category. It's all a lot you shouldn't let go of as time passes. Nor should it be because what they are doing is about not agreeing with anyone, headstrongly going forward, ignoring the opinion of others... - I could give you thousands of examples of this, interest representatives and many others where the dialogue was canceled, only the lackey trade unions were allowed close to them at the time. In my opinion, Hungary's international authority is being trampled into the mud, anything and the opposite is being lied about, that if it is to be said that it does not cause any problems for you, you can think of the constant increase and repeated increase in the minimum wage on billboards, which the paper can bear, but not reality. And in addition, you can think of the time when your new minister, by misleading the press, said, one day at a time about the Internet tax, that this is really nothing more than what they operate in the United States of America. And then two days later, it turns out that the front line is the opposite of that, and they don't want to run it. We could set a thousand examples, which I said only because it's all about that there's nothing to stop you from doing, because if you have to, tomorrow you'll be lying about the opposite of what you lied to me yesterday. So, in that sense, there are no limits to you. But there are no limits to not hurting people's interests. Remember when they made retrospective regulations, say, regarding the introduction of a 98 percent tax burden on taxation. Or remember what was said about their promises at the time: a radical tax reduction, on the other hand 30 new taxes; when they said that one million new jobs in the economy - not abroad, through displaced workers in statistics, but in the economy. Remember also what was said about education, health care, and how many hundred billion forints were taken out of this system every year, the education and health system. What I'm trying to say to you is that you should also remember how you're going to protect it - you said you'd protect pensions. They protected it from pensioners, this is undoubtedly or confiscated HUF 3000 billion, which was burned, the financial use of which was virtually partly reduced by public debt, while the level of public debt is HUF 5000 billion higher than, say, five years ago. Do not erase these images from your memories, because these are not forgotten items, not forgotten categories! And remember that today, I say with a calm spirit, many people in this country live worse than before, most of them. They live worse because they earn less; because they have taken away one third of the purchasing power of the public worker's wages; because the minimum wage man gets 5 thousand forints less money in his hands; because they want to abolish the minimum wage, it is no longer necessary to deal with it; because the public servant receives 38 650 forints And there are thousands of other things to mention. What I'm trying to say is that it's not random that 600,000 people forced out of this country because you chased them away because they couldn't live their lives at home. Remember, too, that poverty is not only growing in terms of poverty, but also expanding, not only deepening, but also expanding. These are all the categories that can't be forgotten. Hungarian society will not forget this for you. As well as - as an example - the Prime Minister's Office has recently issued an advisory tender of HUF 5 billion, bypassing the procurement law itself. Remember that again and again in two years. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[15.30]]
u2015-11-09-198	Speaking after the next agenda, Zoltán Készép applied for a speech entitled "Fociláz" and what is behind it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that not only do older people know him, but young people today can also meet the brilliant novel by István Örkény, entitled Totek. Anyone who has not read the work can experience it more or less in today's Hungarian reality. One of the symbols of the novel is boxing. This is synonymous with pointless, compulsive action. The projection of the protagonist's madness is a bizarre, time-absorption act, which means the manual production of unused, useless boxes. The protagonist of this novel, during the war, was mentally crushed, but his surroundings were forced by Major Varró, who was still in combat readiness in the hinterland. Today, ladies and gentlemen, all of Hungary is boxing. Since 2010, we have spent an increasing share of our budget on non-solicited, demanded or even desired stadiums, of which as many women as mushrooms and party teams in the NB I. More than that. Our country is so rich that it spends more years on the Prime Minister's only well-known hobby - stadium building, professional football, including party clubs - for example, higher education. This happens in the sixth year of the Orbán system full of football failures, when the Hungarian club football has broken all the negative records so far; the stadiums are even more tinkering with emptiness; only the government, public and private companies controlled by the state finance this little theatrical tournament, where the club leaders are often party officials themselves, or the casino or other beneficiaries of the system. Such political pressure may not have weighed on sport to this extent even in the 1950s, because there was at least a dissipation between sports, but now there is almost nothing else. And when this rampage is finally raised by someone, or is mildly interested in what an oversized stadium is doing at the end of the Prime Minister's garden, and is mostly empty and saddened, then comes the impertinent communism and the sanctimonious cover for the children, who really couldn't step on the grass for long in these stadiums, such as Felcsút, in the Mecca of billion-dollar gas mechanics. In fact, it's like a Dafke prestige building something else for the complex, where there's a small railway, and there's a boiler room with a Makovecz style. It's like those few billion wouldn't even matter now, especially if a significant part of it can be financed through state resources and Taós tax incentives. It is typical of this system that only Minister Lazarus dared to suggest that professional football should not be stuffed with state money, but after his careless remark, we no longer predict a great future in the national boxing system. It is important to note that the stadium-building madness, i.e. the total distribution of hundreds of billions through windows, was not requested from them either at home or abroad. Before the boxing broke out, our country had enough infrastructure to host domestic and international football matches. But it's not true that no one wanted this. There's only one person who wanted it, and she wanted it very much. And he doesn't argue about things. Well, that's how the country works right now. In addition to the compulsive replacement action of the Orbán system, the generous public funding of the party and the branch, this particular personal attachment is the only reason. We know that, and the Prime Minister knows that this is completely unnecessary. For children to be able to move and play sports, it is not mandatory to teach football, it would require stadiums for our non-performance football players, but also gymnasiums, sports courts, swimming pools and serious public health programs. Does the Prime Minister still see Hungary? Do you know the conditions under which everyday compulsory physical education classes, invented in the spirit of voluntarism, are held? That they often do something mandatory in the hallway or in the yard that they call physical education? Would the premier from the countryside have forgotten the villages outside Felcsút, of the same size, which do not want a stadium, but a simple gym from that source? Not to mention that outside football, there are other foster sports, which, despite their success and production of national glory, will always be only in the running category, because they are not called football. Ladies and Gentlemen, Waste of stadiums will be a burden on us in the longer term. If the country decides to put an end to this distorted waste, the stadiums will remain here, and their maintenance will continue to cause serious problems on a regular basis. Unless we want to make them a memento like the Stadler arena in Hangzó, or as it was in Romania, where time in the village of the head of state there gave a cruel judgment on the indoor facility in Orbán. Of course, like István Örkény's great novel, our national boxing will end in reality, but not by itself. This amok run can only be stopped by my fellow Members if they realize that public wealth is worth more than being squandered irresponsiblely, even unfaithful to the public interest, by a man's mania. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-09-200	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát spoke after the next agenda with the title "Home or Home." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-201	Mr President, Dear House, In the last few days, quite rightly, a demographic forum, a conference and an exchange of views have been organised in Budapest. Fortunately, this has now come to the forefront of public interest in terms of its severity and in a proper way. So we can say that he is finally beginning to pass through the wall of silence on the very important issue, for which former very good, excellent experts have been maddened, exorcised, Nazid. But we also have to say that although the exchange of ideas is very important, no progress has been made with regard to diagnosis, since the diagnosis has been done before, and we have not really been enriched with new ideas regarding therapeutic options. However, a very dangerous process began to flourish, primarily from liberal circles. We have seen that they, especially in the context of the migration crisis, have linked this process to the Hungarian population loss in terms of the fact that if the Hungarian population is already running out, then we will replace it from the outside. This is an incredibly dangerous trend, and in the midst of the migration tsunami, we have seen that some liberal or liberal circles have demanded rent apartments, vacant people for migrants, extra social benefits, and unfortunately, the Fidesz Fundamental Law has provided an opportunity to vote in the future in the local elections, where appropriate. Fortunately, this phenomenon does not take on a large scale, but we have to say that in addition to the fact that these liberal wild game drives have been cut down, within professional circles, let us say, here at the information communication and IT conference held within Parliament, there was a serious suggestion from top executives and corporate leaders that, if there were already 10 000 IT experts missing from the Hungarian market, they would have to put a kind of resettlement programme under the roof, not in my opinion, according to which, let us say, from South America, especially from Christian culture, many young people would be trained in Hungarian universities, and then they would trust in good luck that these people would stay here and settle down. I stress that this is not the way for Jobbik. For Jobbik, straightening the fallen tree is the only way to replace our own reproduction. But we also see that, while the government, rightly, is fighting rhetorically against certain migration phenomena, and while a demographic conference is underway, at the request of the Ministry of Interior, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is preparing a material that, by extending the research of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, makes findings by almost thirty geographers, minority researchers, lawyers and economists of the five Institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, but on which we are amazed. According to the first, well, there is no reduction in migration flows in the second half of the 2010 decade - this is also known by an average high school student. It turned out from this analysis that the vast majority of young men are among migrants - this is also not a novel phenomenon - many of whom could escape the difficulties of living and trying to get lucky in Europe. The press reports are followed, where the Director-General of the HAC suggests that it is very important to deal with social integration, the process of integration, and the researchers of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences have made recommendations to the government. In their view, it would be appropriate to take into account all possible foreign sources of labour and, in fact, to provide incentives for establishment. They therefore believe that a system of support is needed that is capable of receiving and resettlement even a larger group of migrants who want to stay in Hungary. In the end, they regret that the inflow of Hungarians across the border is beginning to subside, so that the earlier replacement that they thought existed will no longer exist. It can therefore be said that, instead of talking about a home-building and rental-building programme, instead of slowing down the emigration spiral or allowing the birth of the desired Hungarian children, it is clear that, at the request of the Ministry of the Interior, something called a study, which is of similar quality and similar nature, may be born. In addition to the fact that I have all the respect for a number of excellent authorities working at MTA, we should say that there should be a limit somewhere to making recommendations of this quality and such orientation from public funds in Hungary, because it is quite clear that there can be no way for a government, opposition party or Hungarian people thinking in a fair nation to deploy crowds from a foreign source. [[15.40]] Therefore, in order to finally ask the Hungarian people in a direct way in this case, Jobbik is submitting an amendment to the basic law, which clearly allows a national referendum on the issue of quota, and, of course, whether the Hungarian electorate wishes to support the relocation of any stranger to Hungary. If this referendum option goes through, it will be visible that the vast majority of Hungarians condemn all similar solutions and rejects them. This is what we call you: do not go against the will of the Hungarian people. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-202	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2015-11-09-203	On behalf of the Academy of Sciences, Congressman, I cannot respond, but allow me to do so on behalf of the government. As far as immigration is concerned: we regard immigration not as an opportunity, but as something that is fundamentally endangering our culture, our way of life, everything we live in. Although the southern border lock is working, the migratory pressure on our country has decreased, however, tens of thousands of people continue to flow south of us to Europe every day. The situation is aggravated by the immigration quota proposed by Brussels, which is not only unjust and pointless but also dangerous, and the government will therefore act against it by all means. As far as the common results are concerned, allow me, Congressman, to highlight a few things from recent years. The government's goal is to create conditions for all young people to find their way home. The joint efforts of the past few years have led to better opportunities for all of this. More than 400 thousand people work in Hungary compared to 2010. This also means that, unlike EU processes, youth unemployment has been reduced. You also mentioned family policy, which is why I would like to highlight the new family tax system, which leaves hundreds of billions of forints in the pocket of young Hungarian families, which also helps to thrive in Hungary. The same is true of the new support for home creation, which can provide substantial help for hundreds of thousands of young people. The good news in this context is that the desire to have children is increasing and more people are getting married. All these steps will help young people working abroad to move from one step to the other at home. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-09-204	Ladies and gentlemen, In response to the last speech on the agenda, Mr György Szilágyi has applied:. The Fidesz has led to a serious crisis in the field of life and property protection. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-09-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Since my speech concerns the protection of life, fire and property, the chimney sweeps, I am curious that if you answer me, how will you bring Lajos Simicska or Béla Kovács into this question, because whatever we ask you, this is your constant answer to our questions. But I could also start by asking Mr Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, as a young fidelitass, who goes to Brussels a lot, whether he has used the services provided by one of the young fideszes with the betrayal of counterfeit euros at the Eastern Railway Station. But I'm not, because it's not on the subject. I'd like to talk about chimney sweeps. "If I see chimney sweeps, I'll be lucky," says the saying. Therefore, it was, and so it is, because if somewhere the chimney sweep appeared at the beginning of the heating season, there was probably no fire there, and most likely there was no danger to people's lives. Here, at the beginning of the heating season, all we should do is wish the chimney sweeps good work and everything would go their way in a normal country. But, as we know, unfortunately, we are not living in a normal country, and we are not in a normal situation, because there have been shortcomings so far - and we really have to admit this - in relation to the chimney sweeping service: there were not enough instruments, there were not as many instruments as the law or government regulations would have required, there was no proper control, because disaster protection did not comply with the regulations, and then the situation was aggravated by the fact that you almost sacrificed chimney sweeping services on the altar of the reduction. When it was perceived that there would be problems here, the government did, in the spring, submit to Parliament a proposal aimed at renewing the operation of the domestic chimney sweeping industry and making it safer through public engagement. To date, however, the relevant draft law has not been adopted and is being postponed. What happened? On March 10, 2015, BM submitted this bill, and on the 11th, the Defence and Police Committee was appointed, on the 18th the general debate took place, on 23rd the detailed discussion phase was opened, and since then you have stopped this bill. As a result, there is tragic uncertainty in the profession, and levitation simply paralyzes the system. While the situation is becoming more and more dangerous, the level of departure has increased dramatically, from the previous 1400-1500 chimney sweeps, only 800-900 skilled workers are forced to provide the service somehow, and there is only a lack of replacements, because the current situation makes the profession absolutely unattractive, and being a chimney sweep is no longer a long-term, safe livelihood. This is an untenable and risky state, which sooner or later threatens the safety of hundreds of thousands of families. Everything's hanging in the air, everything's uncertain. There have been various ideas from government branches about which organization to integrate the profession, but nothing else has happened, which means that for the time being, workers have no idea what will happen to them, where they will go, and in what form they will continue to work. I'm reporting that the chimney sweeps have run out of patience. Today, even more and more of the most persistent are forced to earn a better living. What is most worrying and time bombing is a rapid decline in the number of chimney sweeps, and the situation has become worse since then, since the National Trade Union of Chimney Sweeps, which brings together 40% of chimney sweeps, decided that a significant proportion of its employees, with more than 300 members, have now been lawyered up to 322 employees by the fact that, if nothing is done on the resolution or on the law by 21 December 2015, this termination will be enforced. If this termination is enforced, a serious disaster may occur. My opinion is that, as the Jobbik Movement for Hungary can sit down with the employees, it can sit down with the service providers, and it is the government's duty to sit down with these people, it would be the duty of a dog to sit down with these organisations, discuss at a trialogue the possibilities of further functioning of the bill and the profession, and ensure that the chimney sweeping industry can function normally in Hungary and that hundreds of thousands of people are not at risk. This is your responsibility. I ask you not to put Hungary in an impossible position and to sit down with these organisations before the deadline, to negotiate with them, and to continue to negotiate this law, so that we can finally finish this story with satisfaction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-09-206	Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Interior indicated that it would like to respond in writing to its statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session will be held on 16 November 2015. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:48 p.m.]]
