u2014-05-06-0	Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome the participants of the inaugural Parliamentary Assembly. I open the inaugural session of the new Parliament following the election of Members of Parliament in 2014. On the basis of the Act on Parliament, the representatives elected in the general election of Members, as well as the representatives of nationalities which set up a list of nationalities which do not sign up for the mandate, and the representatives of national minority spokespersons, shall submit their credentials to the President of the Republic prior to the inaugural meeting of the Parliament. The credentials have been taken over by my colleagues in the last few days. I declare that, in accordance with the law, all 199 elected representatives and 13 ethnic spokespersons have submitted their credentials until the inaugural meeting. Dear Parliament, Please sing our National Anthem together. [[The people in this room sing the Anthem together. After that, the people in the room will take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, A month ago, on 6 April, the Hungarian electorate decided. They have decided who to delegate their political representation to; they have decided on the composition of the new Parliament and have decided on who to assume the responsibility of government over the next four years. In the elections, you have the right and authority to discuss the affairs of the nation, the country, to make decisions that affect the fate of our nation, to create laws governing our personal and community lives. On 30 April, the National Election Committee concluded the outcome of the 2014 parliamentary election, and the Constitutional Court decided on the submissions concerning the electoral system. After these two decisions, no one can question the purity of the elections, the constitutionality of our electoral system, the legitimacy of the future government. Dear Parliament, According to Article 16 (3) of the Fundamental Law, the President of the Republic proposes the Prime Minister to the Parliament. After our meeting yesterday, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to establish the new government, who accepted the request. I therefore propose that the Parliament elect Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary on the basis of the basic rule cited above. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The President of the Republic shall propose the person of the Prime Minister to the Parliament. After our meeting yesterday, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to establish the new government, who accepted the request. I therefore propose that the Parliament elect Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary on the basis of the basic rule cited above. (A big round of applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Dear Parliament, Historically, you are the continuation of the work of the first Hungarian People's Assembly, the successors of those who launched our country 166 years ago on the path of Western civilization. [[10.10]] You continue the traditions of those excellent Members of Parliament who have successfully given historical impetus to the process of civilization in the course of the compromise. As you know, an unprecedented boom followed the period established by the great politicians of Ferenc Deák, the sage and age of the country. This is also the time when this great building was built, in which you will now begin your work and which the world admires as one of the most beautiful parliaments in Europe. Before you get to work, please allow me to recommend to your attention the thoughts of Ferenc Deák, which he said after the fourth time he was elected Member of Parliament in June 1872. " Looking back on the past, I am happy to offer myself the belief that the fate of our country has improved. But it's not enough, it's not just about the past. We must consider the future in particular, and if I do not freak out, yet I look anxiously at the great crowd of things that are needed in the country and which we still lack. " Dear Parliament, The 6 April election was the seventh free election following the change of regime. Seventh - yet the first. You are the first Members to be elected by the nation as a whole, who have received a mandate in which our fellow countrymen living beyond our borders could express their belonging to their political nation. You are the first who, thanks to the new electoral law, not only start their work in a smaller number of legislative acts that we hope will work more effectively, but also in a new Parliament, in which the spokespersons of our national minorities will take part. And you are the first Parliament members to take their oath on Hungary's new basic law. I am convinced that on 6 April, the voters made a clear message to the new Parliament, a message that they considered the barren political debates of the past to be closed. It is not worth discussing whether Hungary is a republic, since its basic law clearly states this. It is not worth discussing infertilely whether our new basic law will stand the test of the rule of law, as voters have taken a clear position in a democratic election. And it is not worth arguing infertilely about the fact that modern, XXI. Free Hungary of the century takes up any kind of communion with the dictatorial states of the past and their inhuman and unforgivable sins, because the answer is clear: it does not undertake. Neither the painful legacy of the national socialists called fascism, nor the communist regimes called socialism, demanding hundreds of thousands of Hungarian lives and destituting millions, can be excluded from our history. We Hungarians today can only have one thing to do with this: that by choosing the only decent path in mind, we are all on the side of the victims. There is no and no reason that would make it legitimate, acceptable or permissible for any member of the Hungarian nation to be branded either because of its origin, religion or social affiliation, or for any other reason. Just as there is no such thing, there cannot be any reason that would make it legitimate, acceptable, or permissible for anyone to feel out of law because of their origin, religion, social affiliation, and therefore not subject to the rules and obligations that ensure peaceful coexistence of the members of the nation. I wish all the parties and representatives of the Hungarian Parliament to do their work with this knowledge. These principles provide unity for our nation. Dear Parliament, If, looking back for the last 25 years, we do a short reckoning, and ask what Hungary wanted, what did the change of regime believe in, we can actually capture the essence in two words: the citizens of Hungary wanted freedom and prosperity. Freedom, i.e. the withdrawal of Soviet troops stationed in our country. Free elections, free business creation, free press, free cultural life and free interoperability of borders. As a nation of freedom, we wanted to belong to the free countries of Europe and the world instead of the prison-like closure of the Communist bloc. [[10.20]] In addition to freedom, we wanted prosperity and hoped that, if not immediately, we could catch up with Western Europe in the foreseeable future. And we also wanted prosperity in the sense that the rest of our everyday life and public relations can provide to all our citizens. These two basic hopes have not come true in the same way, because while the demands of our desire for freedom have been met step by step, the possibility of decent citizenship is not yet given to everyone. Therefore, while it is worth recognising the performance of the Parliaments and governments of the last two and a half decades as a common value for the creation of human and civil liberties, for our accession to our democratic institution of the rule of law, for NATO and for our successful entry into the European Union, we must not lose sight of the fact that we have not been as successful as on the issue of freedom in creating prosperity. Therefore, the greatest task of the coming new era is to strengthen the Western civilization of our country, so that in another 25 years' time the members of the then National Assembly will not stand in front of the national tribunal, explaining why we could not take advantage of our freedom in the matter of prosperity. The responsibility, your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the House, is enormous. Because in the first 25 years, it may have been natural to waste a lot of time closing debates about the past, but the result that was born on 6 April should warn everyone that the Hungarian nation considers the long process of regime change to be complete. A clear declaration of the will of the people should warn the representatives of the parties sitting here that shadow boxing in symbolic matters will lead nowhere. Instead, Hungarian citizens are more interested in the question of how we can improve our life together; how we can make our nation more successful, how we can open up the possibility of prosperity to all our citizens. When we follow Ferenc Deák's advice to the future, we have to ask ourselves: under what circumstances, what opportunities Hungarians will live in this landscape 25, 50 or 100 years from now. Because everything we do today with our waters, our lands, our air and our natural resources affects the fate of our generations after us, our children and their children. Sustainable development is not merely a sound slogan, but a lively, meat-cutting issue, something that is worth weighing wisely every day before every decision is made. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Deák's thoughts quoted earlier continue as follows. " If God has helped us so far, our efforts and God's help may take us further on the course in which we want to secure the future of the country and the better life of all its inhabitants. There have been differences of opinion, there will be politics, as in general, in all aspects of human function. It would not be good if there were no difference in political opinions, because it is precisely through differences of opinion that the truth can be grinded out. I do not regret, in fact, that there are differences of opinion in very important subjects. I also respect and love the part of the citizens of the country who are our opponents. God only gives us to have enemies in this country, but to his fellow citizen, if he opposes him, he will have no enemies! " Dear Parliament, I wish you and all my countrymen the same. I wish that in their responsible work they would never forget the four words left to us by the author of our Anthem, Kölcsey: " Home before all things. " [[A big round of applause.]] Dear Parliament, The House Rule of Decision 7. The inaugural meeting shall be chaired by the interim president until the announcement of the establishment of the House Committee pursuant to Article 1 (1). I now call on Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács to act as interim president. I would like to announce that I have made the credentials of Members and Spokespersons available to the interim president and the date notes for examination. I give the chair of the meeting to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Mr President. Thank you for your attention. I wish the Parliament an effective work. [[It's a long applause. Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács, the interim president, shakes hands with Dr. János Áder, President of the Republic, and then takes the chair. Dr. János Áder, President of the Republic, accompanied by the commander of the decorative guard, will take his place in the decorative box.]]
u2014-05-06-1	Dear Parliament, Allow me, too, to welcome all the participants in the inaugural session, our guests and everyone who monitors these festive moments. I declare that, under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, the duties of notaries until the election of the officials are elected by the eight youngest representatives: Tibor Bana, Péter Csizi, Márta Demeter, Dúró Dóra, Gergely Farkas, Anita Heringes, Ágnes Kunhalmi and Gábor Staudt, the representatives are notaries. On this basis, I would like Tibor Bana and Márta Demeter to assist me now in leading the meeting. [[Tibor Bana and Marta Demeter take over their notary seats.]] Mr President of the Republic. Mr. Prime Minister, Fellow Members! Dear Guests! Based on the experience and tradition of the past many years, the interim president has the opportunity to speak to the House to share his thoughts here with you, my fellow Members, and through this with the whole country. At the same time, it must be made clear and clear that the early president's welcome speech cannot be a programme speech; the early president's greeting is nothing more than the thoughts, desires, ideas of an elected representative about the past, present and future, which he can only say because he proved to be the oldest by God's excellent grace. Dear House, Every first meeting of Parliament since 1990 has been festive and solemn. [[10.30]] We have all given and given the solemnity of our predecessors to these meetings, because this is not our celebration, not the celebration of the Members, but the celebration of Hungarian democracy. This is the celebration of the people who elected this House, they have given their trust and expect their hopes and desires to be fulfilled on the basis of their trust. The government changes after 1990 were nothing more than one government changed the other, and it continued, roughly all of the way, the previous policy, which was once called left- and sometimes right-wing, but did not make a substantial change in the country's fate. 1998 was the first moment when a prime minister - then very young - found that it was more than a change of government that was coming. The fact that it didn't really continue was up to the 2002 election. However, the following years have triggered a serious crisis throughout the world, in Europe and especially here in Hungary, which has made it clear that after 2010, Hungary cannot continue the same crisis that governments had previously conducted. Before the 2010 election, the message was clear: Hungary needs to find a new way, a new path that is primarily Hungarian, but which fits in with the European community, which fits in with the great family of European peoples. From 2010 to 2014, it was difficult, many times, to say that with many kinds of problems and troubles, we went through four years of success. I do not say successful, honourable House, because many people have said before and during the election that this vote, this election, will be a referendum - a referendum on whether Hungary has been on the right path over the past four years, has chosen the path that can give Hungary new power, new energy and a new opportunity in the coming days. As the President of the Republic said, the elections have been conducted purely and democratically, and the people - where he is no greater in politics - have taken a clear position: he has taken a clear position in favour of the continuation. However, in this House, I think we all know, and I think that I am not the only one who thinks that we are not going to continue in the same way, that we are going to continue on the path, but now in many things in which, perhaps because of the shortness of time, perhaps because of the speed to which this House has been forced to meet the challenges of time, we have made mistakes, and we will now correct those mistakes. That's what we've been trusted with. We also have the confidence that, I have to say, perhaps he has passed laws too quickly, in which mistakes can always slip in, we can correct them, we can guide them to the right path. But our basic direction, our basic goal, must be to continue the renewal of Hungary. I am speaking here today not only as interim president, Honourable House, but also as a representative of a Hungarian breed, the small farmer, who is already losing it. I think it is necessary to say this because, in my view, the next four years are very much about what we can give, what we can change in the life of the Hungarian countryside. We must clearly see that there are two very painful things in this country. One is our demographic situation. This is how we inherited it, so it has been for a very long time, since János Kodolányi talked about death. We are not there, thanks to God, we have done a great deal in the last four years, we have tried to help the Hungarian children to be born, but I believe that we must do even more. It is clear from my view that Hungarian women want children, Hungarian women love families, and they want families, before everything, even before the career. However, we must ensure that they are able to have children, not with resignation, not with a kind of career giving, but with the possibility of continuing the career, at all times with the possibility of building the future. The other, I think, is very much in pain for this country, and it should also be noted that there is a great poverty in some parts of the Hungarian countryside. And at this moment, I must say that I would like to refer not only to our Christian conscience, but also to the living conscience of the whole world, Pope Francis. Pope Francis addressed the warnings not only to Christians but also to all the peoples of the world, the essence of which is that it is the duty of every society, its sacred duty, to help and support those social classes that are now on the brink of poverty and inability. The last four years have been about - and I believe that this is what needs to be done - learning and working. I am convinced that when we talk about continuing, this must be continued: the possibility of learning must be guaranteed and the possibility of working must be guaranteed. However, this requires significant changes in the Hungarian countryside. We need to be able to make sure that the four - year - old development that has taken place in agriculture also achieves an increasing number of jobs, that more and more people have access to jobs, and that more and more people can say that they are already farmers. Dear House, Today, I firmly believe that we will start along the lines of a continuation that can bring this country a boost, a better life and an even greater freedom for the Hungarians in the coming time. What else could I wish, than for those who believe in God, a blessing, for those to whom faith has not yet been given, good luck, and a blessing for them, so that we can continue our work together, so that Hungary will rise up, and Hungary will be even stronger. Dear House, Hungary desires peace, and only the strong can give this peace. Now that we have this authority from the people, we have the power to do so. This power must be used for peace. This force must be used to minimise tension and conflict between the various social layers. Each Member has a special responsibility to represent this wherever he speaks, wherever he appears. I believe this is one of the great futures. The President of the Republic quoted Ferenc Deák, and then allow me to conclude by saying that it is a great pleasure for me that this House, our House, the House of the country, is renewed externally. There are new sculptures that I'm happy to see and which I accept, but I have a small sense of absence, because somewhere in this area, Ferenc Deák should be there. I am convinced that without Ferenc Deák, the Hungarian Parliament is not the same as our long, often difficult, yet heroic history. Dear House, I wish all of us to continue our work together and working together in the interests of Hungary's country. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A big round of applause.]] Dear Parliament, I declare today that the amendment of the parliamentary law and the new decree-law have entered into force. These are the new framework for our meeting today. The Fundamental Law and the Parliament Act provide for conflicts of interest between its representatives and the Speaker's Office. I would like to ask Mr. Tibor Bana to make a statement on the conflict of interest.
u2014-05-06-2	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that all Members and spokespersons have submitted statements of conflict of interest. They all said that there was no conflict of interest against them, so that all Members and spokespersons could exercise their rights at the Parliament's meeting today.
u2014-05-06-3	Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the agenda for the inaugural session. In the previous negotiations for the inaugural meeting, the participants agreed on the agenda for the meeting. This was received by all of them in the courier post and published on the parliamentary website. [[10.40]] I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has adopted the agenda by an overwhelming majority. Dear Parliament, The President of the National Election Committee and the President of the National Election Office report on the parliamentary elections held on 6 April 2014. The reports are B/1. and B/2. They got it in numbers. First, I give the floor to Dr. Andras Patyi, president of the National Election Committee.
u2014-05-06-4	Dear Parliament, Lords of the President! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Guests! In accordance with the relevant legal obligations, I submitted a written report to the Honourable Parliament. Please allow me to present the substance of this in a verbal manner. The new substantive rules for the election of Members of Parliament changed a system of elections of a quarter-century, which was adopted in 1989 in six general elections. The new procedural rules replaced a 17-year procedural law. Following the establishment of the general elections, electoral bodies had 11 weeks, i.e. 77 days, to organise and conduct the elections in 2014 in accordance with the changed legislation. The new law of procedure, Ve. Renewed the central bodies of the elections and set up the National Election Commission, NVB, with an extension of the number compared to the previous National Election Commission, with a mandate period exceeding parliamentary cycles. The President of the Republic's proposal on the persons of the seven elected and three alternates, the nine-year mandate, the requirement of a legal university degree, and the two-thirds majority required for our election are new elements which ensure the independence, stability and professional competence of the NVB at the same time. On 30 September 2013, the National Assembly elected seven members and three alternate members of the NVB, as required by law, the committee held its inaugural meeting that day and elected its President personally and the Deputy Chairman on my proposal. The inaugural session ended the mandate of the former OVB and its members. Until the election was set, the parties with a political group in the Parliament entrusted one member beyond the elected members, thus carrying out their statutory duties with 12 members until the election was set. On 18 January to 26 February 2014, the Committee carried out its duties through its elected members and prepared itself to deal with the unprecedented and expected burden of affairs. Later in our work, the persons assigned to us by the nominating organisations that set up the national list were constantly involved. In this election, the largest number of national party lists, 31, were announced, of which 18 finally met the legal conditions. In addition to party lists, national minority authorities were also entitled to establish a national nationality list. All 13 nationalities lived with it. Therefore, the NVB has finally registered a total of 31 national lists. A total of 19 members - 14 members of the parties and 5 persons of the national minority authorities - were assigned to the committee, which thus performs its duties between 27 February and 6 May, with 26 members. The Ve. At present, only the elected NVB members are required to have a degree in law, which is not required for the appointed members, but the majority of these members also have such a degree. Our Commission held 44 meetings in 13 weeks between the date of the election and the decision of 23 April 2014 to establish the national list result, on average three times a week, and during that period it took 1060 decisions, which were on average 24 decisions. Acting as a first instance body, we have decided on 315 decisions. In comparison, I would like to say that the National Election Committee took 237 decisions at 39 meetings during the entire election period in 2010, i.e. six decisions per meeting on average. The greatest workload was the processing and evaluation of appeals against the first instance decisions of parliamentary single mandate constituency electoral committees. In view of the changes in legislation, the NVB became a forum for redress for the decisions of the OEVBs as a second-degree body. About 2,500 decisions in the committees concerning the registration procedure for individual candidates provided for the possibility of appeal to the NVB under a three-day review procedure. The first instance decisions imposing fines on the registration of candidates and the timely return of referrals were, in the vast majority of cases, justified and legitimate. In the case of 368 appeals relating to the mark, we found only 9 grounds for the appeal and decided to change the decision of OEVB. It is true that 264 applications did not meet the strict formal requirements laid down in Ve., and therefore no substantive examination was possible. A total of 239 appeals were brought to our committee in respect of the first instance decisions on the breach of the legal obligation to pass the letters of recommendation - this was a new type of case and a new type of penalty - so we only had to take more decisions on this subject than on the whole of the election for the OVB. In our position, which was consistently applied, confirmed by the Curia, the nominating organisation and the independent candidate were subject to objective responsibility for submitting and returning the recommendation sheets, so there was no possibility of rescue if they failed to do so. In all cases, OEVBs were liable to impose fines on their own initiative, without discretion, and neither were we. In conclusion, a total of 607 appeals against first instance decisions in connection with procedural acts relating to the registration of individual candidates had to be assessed over a very short period of one week, which, due to the significant number of meetings held on a daily basis and the number of decisions taken, meant an extraordinary workload for both us, the decision-makers and the election office preparing the decision. The Committee has taken 138 decisions as other forums for examining appeals against first instance decisions in violation of the rules of the election campaign. The law enforcement activity, which is at the heart of the electoral procedure, is subject to full judicial control, also with regard to the relevant constitutional and fundamental provisions, and therefore the experience of judicial review is more than just the number of decisions. In 219 cases, the Curia's proceedings were initiated against our decisions. In 132 cases, the Curia carried out a substantive investigation and in 119 cases, i.e. 90 percent of the cases, it considered the decision of the National Election Committee to be well founded. In only 13 cases, 10 percent of the cases decided to change it and 87 of the 219 applications were rejected without a substantive examination. In the context of the practical application of the electoral campaign rules, the Curia has in several cases formulated a position determining the continuation of the campaign activities of candidates and nominating organisations. This should be highlighted in the recent decades in the context of the so-called negative campaign, which has increasingly gained ground in the electoral campaign. In support of our position in several of our resolutions, the Curia noted that it was necessary to separate, on the one hand, when the criticisms of candidates and nominating organisations in the electoral campaign were delivered, and, on the other hand, when they claimed to be a fact. While the opinion, whether extreme or hurtful to some, cannot in itself lead to violations of electoral law, false facts are capable of misleading voters and violating Ve. the rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would also like to give you feedback on a specific matter. In the context of a political advertising film, the NVB concluded that its content violates the right to human dignity of two public actors and the two candidates involved in the election proceedings. [[10.50]] As a result of identification with an animal, namely chimpanzee, the video dehumanizes the persons concerned and therefore clearly goes beyond the limits of a negative campaign or extreme expression of opinion. Both the Curia and the Constitutional Court considered our argument to be correct. The Constitutional Court stated that the Curia, in accordance with the decision of the NVB, had constitutionally restricted freedom of expression in order to protect other fundamental rights, namely the right to human dignity, and that this advertising film could not be screened on that television. The committee - I mean NVB - is Ve. 51. In accordance with the provisions of §2 of the Act, the electoral bodies have the right to interpret the electoral legislation in the form of guidelines, but only in order to ensure uniform application of the law by the electoral bodies. Its equivalent competence with the name " resolution " was the former Ve by its predecessor, the OVB. Based on the results of the study. From 9 February to 4 April 2014, the NVB decided to issue 12 guidelines. The committee held its position in principle, taking into account Ve's position. at its disposal - to issue guidelines solely on the initiative of the electoral bodies. Let me highlight some of these. In order to facilitate the uniform application of the law relating to the introduction of a new legal institution that can be communicated to the media only without consideration, we considered it appropriate to interpret Ve's rules on the concept and publication of political advertising and political advertising 2/2014. In our guidance No 1. We have interpreted specifically the issue of changing the names of nominating organisations during the campaign period or during the candidacy period, stressing that the names of nominating organisations are special data with which the voter is directly connected, and that therefore the change in the name of the electoral will also affects the voter's will. With regard to the rules governing the verification of recommendations, we have established that the literal, uncomplicated application of the agreement on the personal data of the voter who made the recommendation to the full central register data would not help the formation of the voter's will, but would prevent it. The guidelines set out a taxative list of minor differences in relation to the data of the central register that do not result in the nullity of the recommendation, such as: non-promotion of the doctoral title, mother's name, mother's second first name, and so on. CCIII of 2011 on the election of the Fundamental Law and Members of Parliament. In the history of the democratic rule of law, voters could exercise their right to vote for the first time, as a result of the 1920 Trianon Peace Act and the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947, which confirmed it, our countrymen were stranded outside the borders of Hungary. In order to facilitate the exercise of the right in accordance with the constitutional and procedural principles of voting, we have laid down in our guidelines on the submission of a ballot paper and an identification declaration by letter at foreign representations the consequences of voting in a letter and of the different voting arrangements for voting in a polling station on the spot. Also highlighted is the so-called relative territorial ban, the so-called "150 metres " rule, on certain issues of the so-called " 150 metres " rule, 11/2014. Guidelines No 1 which analysed, interpreted and defined activities which cannot continue within 150 metres of the entrance to the polling stations without violating the campaign silence. The Ve. In accordance with its provisions, 106 single mandate constituency electoral committees concluded on 12 April 2014 the results of the single mandate constituencies. As a result of the prepared work of electoral committees and their compliance with electoral legislation, the expression of public confidence in electoral bodies and the continuation of a relatively moderate campaign, it can be assessed that a total of 5 requests for redress were received by the NVB against decisions determining the results of the single constituency, while an objection generally contested the results of the single mandate constituency on the basis of the provisions of the basic law. In the case of an appeal, our committee found the motion for a partial recalculation of votes to be well founded, stressing that a small number of differences in votes between candidates in first and second place alone and a high proportion of invalid votes cannot serve as a basis for ordering automatic recalculation of votes. The Curia, confirming our position, noted that, in the context of the appeal procedure against the result, given the limited evidence situation of the applicants, the statement of the delegated ballot counting committee members may provide sufficient evidence to support the infringement in the determination of the result. In three cases, the Curia's proceedings were requested against our decisions to review individual claims for redress against individual results. In two cases, the Curia examined the request for review in substance and considered the decision of the NVB to be lawful in all the contested cases, while in one case it rejected the request for a judicial review without a substantive examination. Following the rise of individual results, on 23 April 2014, the committee established the national list final result of the vote and determined on the basis of which 93 representatives won the mandate from the national party list; we also established who the national minority spokespersons were. Our decision increased to legal force on 28 April as a result of the completion of the review and judicial review procedures, and we subsequently approved a detailed communication on 30 April for publication in the Hungarian Gazette. In the context of an extraordinary appeal procedure independent of legal force, which followed, the Constitutional Court rejected the constitutional complaint against the Curia order by decision issued yesterday and partially rejected it. The NVB intends to point out three main points of the first legislative provisions in the 2014 elections. In these cases, as a result of the practical application of the law, it has become apparent that the legislation in force does not in principle fully serve the conduct in line with the aim of the legal institution, so that the dogmatical application of the law departs from the application of the law. These gaps and codification problems need to be dealt with by law. One of these is the examination or requirement of the involvement in the second-degree review procedure. Only the second-degree decisions of the electoral committees and the request for a judicial review procedure against the first-degree decision of the NVB are required by the law to present, certify and present the involvement. In our view, it may be justified to require this in the context of a second-degree procedure before the NVB. Let me mention that our committee has dealt with nearly a hundred appeals where a single petitioner, without stating the circumstances giving cause to all the parties involved, has challenged the decisions of the various national single-member constituency electoral committees concerning the registration of candidates. The second area to be highlighted is the institution of the plural recommendation. One of the two major innovations for the recommendations was the introduction of a certified, serial number and stamp recommendation form replacing the recommendation coupons and the institution of a plural recommendation allowed towards the different nominating organisations. This new option has resulted in very significant activity by nominating organisations, which is otherwise considered to be a positive phenomenon, resulting in 1531 registered candidates participating in the electoral process; on average, 14. However, the system of plural recommendation entails an increased possibility of misuse of voters' data. In order to protect the personal data communicated to voters in the course of the recommendation and the citizens' will for real voters, we consider it appropriate for the legislator to reconsider the plural system of recommendation and to amend the rules on the basis of which voters may use one valid recommendation per type of nomination. Finally, as a third point, I would like to point out the composition of the electoral committees. The election committee, namely the NVB, may delegate members of the nominating organisations or of the parties with a political group in the Parliament on various grounds. [[11.00]] The Ve. The provisions in force do not sufficiently distinguish between situations where two electoral procedures take place at the same time, whether or not a nominating organisation transferring a member to the same committee on the basis of a specific title for one election may delegate another title in relation to the other. In our view, on the basis of equal opportunities between nominating organisations, a nominating organisation or candidate may only have one delegate in the electoral committees, even though it would otherwise be entitled to delegate a member on several grounds. Our position was confirmed by the Curia in his order. In conclusion, electoral bodies, including electoral committees, have fulfilled their function in Ve. They performed their duties impartially, ensuring the purity and legality of the elections. On this basis, as Chairman of the National Election Committee, I would like to express my thanks to the members and staff of all electoral bodies involved in the proper and effective conduct of the elections in 2014. As President of our national committee, I commend all of us for the careful and conscientious decisions taken by the Oevbs in applying new legislation, the high-quality decisions which sometimes even refer to the fundamental rights practice of the German Constitutional Court, with which not only the specific law has been applied at a high level without exception, but also the principles of elections and electoral proceedings have always been taken into account by the committees. Thank you in particular for the activities of the National Election Office to assist and serve the work of our committee in order to support electoral administration and the professional work of the committee. In my view, thanks to the effective work of the electoral bodies to maintain and retain legislation, this year's election of Members of Parliament has been prepared and conducted effectively, in accordance with the current legislative provisions. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Speakers, I wish you, as elected representatives and advocates as a result of the general elections in 2014, good success and successful four years for your legislative work in the service of the nation, on behalf of the National Election Committee and myself. Salus Hungariae suprema lex esto - Hungary should enjoy the supreme law! I ask for the adoption of my report, and thank you for your attention.
u2014-05-06-5	I give the floor to Dr. Ilona Pálffy, president of the National Election Office.
u2014-05-06-6	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Guests, XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure Act No. 13 I report below on the organisation and implementation of the state tasks related to the election of Members of Parliament in 2014. The President of Hungary set the election of the Members of Parliament on 6 April 2014. After the election was set, given the completely transformed legislative framework and the renewed institutional system, the electoral bodies had a short period of time to prepare for the election of Members of Parliament, to organise election-related tasks. Following the 2010 elections, a complete transformation of the public-law arrangement started in Hungary, in which a substantive and procedural re-regulation of the election took place following the adoption of the basic law. The Hungarian electoral system has changed significantly. On the basis of one of the major changes, the number of the Parliament has decreased from 386 to 199; the basic law has extended the right to vote to Hungarian citizens living outside the borders of Hungary without a Hungarian address; there has been a proportionate establishment of parliamentary single-member constituencies; and first we could choose and choose and send nationalities to the National Assembly. Compared to the previous electoral system, the renewal of the territorial lists is possible only in the national list and in the parliamentary single mandate constituencies. Under the Act on the New Election Procedure, the National Election Office was established, which is an autonomous administrative body independent of the executive authority, cannot be instructed in its function. The President of the Republic shall appoint the President of the National Election Office on a proposal from the Prime Minister. The Office's tasks include, inter alia, the management of the central register, the conduct of the procurement procedures necessary for the conduct of the elections, the establishment and safe operation of the IT system, the performance of the central logistics tasks of the election, the financial management of the elections, the official website of the elections, the organisation of administrative and IT trials, the production and transport of central forms necessary for the conduct of the elections. It ensures the material and technical conditions of the operation of the National Electoral Commission and prepares matters falling within its competence for a decision. The President of the National Election Office was appointed on 24 May 2013 and is also the date of its formation. So it took ten months to build a whole new institution and organize and conduct a new parliamentary election based on the new foundations. Due to the transformation of the electoral system, proper professional preparation of electoral bodies and the continued information of voters, diplomatic bodies, OSCE and media representatives were of particular importance. In recent years, the state and public administration of Hungary has changed significantly, resulting in a large exchange of personnel with experience in the conduct of elections. The management of the offices of documents was transferred to the government offices instead of to the municipalities carrying out the elections, while a significant proportion of the government civil servants were located in the newly created public administration bodies. The National Election Office was concerned about educating the members of the election offices by holding electoral prepers, and the new publications of the Election Papers helped the leaders of the election offices, the voters of the foreign representation voting, the candidates and the nominating organisations. The National Election Office kept running the official website of the elections, through which voters were able to submit their applications for the register and to obtain information about the election. The parliamentary elections took place in 3176 settlements, 10 386 electoral districts and 97 foreign representations, with more than 20,000 election offices and around 76,000 electoral committee members. The National Election Office has provided more than 16 million ballot papers of 170 tonnes. The required number of ballots and mobile voting booths were delivered to the election offices, with a total of 10,790 units - which meant 770 pallets - shipped out. We have built a new system called data monitoring, which, following full image recording of the polling district minutes, has verified the results in an independent IT system, and compared the data of the authentic paper-based protocols on which the legal result was established with the data stored in the national electoral system. [[11.10]] A total of 8 million 241 thousand 562 voters were included in the electoral register. At the elections held on 6 April, 4 million 943,000 762 voters and 61.65 percent of voters voted in 10 386 domestic electoral districts. More than ever voters outside the territory of Hungary have exercised their voting rights at foreign representations, 85.65 percent of voters on the register of foreign representations have cast their votes. 81.87 percent of those registered in the register of voters have exercised their voting rights. The most critical element of the previous electoral rules was the connection of the candidate's selection to the proposal coupon collection. Under the new rules, the knocking tag has been replaced by the recommendation sheet, the candidates' recommendation is made on a recommendation sheet and 500 valid recommendations are required to become candidates. It is also a new rule for nominating organisations and candidates who actually intend to run for election to introduce a system of plural recommendation. As a result of the simplification of the nomination rules, 3826 voters wanted to become candidates, who required a total of 478 118 letters of recommendation. As a result, this year, a total of 1531 individual candidates could be elected as MPs, which is almost double the number of candidates four years ago when they were 895 candidates. After the national list setting rules were simplified, 18 party lists and 13 ethnic lists were set up. A total of 441 475 recommendation sheets were submitted within the deadline provided by the legislation, and 1 million 372 thousand recommendations were verified by election offices. Three days were available for the verification of the recommendations, with an extraordinary workload for the members of the offices. It should therefore be considered that this short deadline may be extended by this House by a day or two, since it was necessary for the staff to do heroin work to enable them to fulfil these tasks on time. In order to preserve the purity of the election, any voter or nominating organisation wishing to run as candidates should take full account of the recommendations he requests. Failure to do so would result in fines being imposed on all non-submitted referrals. A fine of HUF 1.8 billion has now been imposed. It should also be considered whether it is necessary to impose a fine of more than 50 thousand forints per letter of recommendation to ensure the cleanliness of the elections. Following the entry into force of the new electoral system, the National Election Office is also responsible for the continuous management of the central register. This required the establishment of an IT infrastructure to ensure the central register, management of the data of the electoral holders and the development of the necessary application. According to the Act on Election Procedure, Hungarian citizens who did not have a Hungarian address could cast their votes in a letter at the elections of the Members of Parliament in 2014. Prior registration is a condition for the exercise of the vote on the letter. Registration applications could be submitted by post from 1 August 2013 and online from 1 November to the address of the National Election Office. Following the examination of the applications and some 400 appeals, 193 793 voters were included in the register of voters in the letter. The package of voting letters sent to them was returned by 158 654 voters, and 128 429 letter votes complied with the legal requirements. Certain simplifications, including the simplification of registration, including, of course, the creation of the necessary guarantees, should be considered in relation to the vote on the letter. Hungarian citizens residing abroad on the day of the vote had the opportunity to vote abroad. This option could only be used by those who requested to be included in the register of foreign representations until the deadline laid down by law. Thanks to one of the most significant technical innovations of the 2014 parliamentary elections, it was possible to apply for registration at foreign representations online. This facilitation has also contributed greatly to the fact that the number of voters at foreign representations has increased significantly, approximately three times, compared to the elections four years ago. The vote with a much controversial and even more attacked certificate was replaced by a completely new legal institution, the transfer. Those who wished to exercise their voting rights away from their place of residence on the day of the vote, but in Hungary, could vote with a transfer. The possibility of transferring online has contributed to the widespread use of this legal institution. Overall, 120,552 voters made use of the possibility of a transfer. The re-registered voter could vote for the individual candidate in the constituency of his/her place of residence, thus excluding the possibility of voting in the previous elections. With the introduction of the transfer, the National Election Office faced a huge logistical challenge. Here, too, it should be considered that the current one-day deadline should be extended for the processing of the online transfer, as this also meant a great deal of work for electoral office staff. Another novelty of the law on the new electoral procedure was that it provided much more assistance to people with disabilities. The visually impaired voters could request a vote notice by Braille and a Braille ballot template for the vote. For the disabled, the barrier-free voting circles have been established. Following the establishment of the National Election Office in May 2013, the stock was replenished between August and December. The current number of the National Election Office is 79, of which 67 are employed for an indefinite period and 12 are employed for a fixed period. For one month prior to the 6 April election, 50 staff members were seconded to the NVI. Their temporary setting could only resolve the processing of the mail votes received, the redeployment and processing of the votes received from the transfer and from the foreign representation. We have conducted 12 procurement procedures directly linked to the preparation and conduct of the parliamentary elections. The establishment and operation of the IT system to support the three national elections in 2014 required significant resources. Legislative changes made it necessary to redefine electoral applications, and the exchange of central electoral instruments acquired in 2008 and 2009 became essential. In order to monitor changes in the framework of administrative restructuring and to ensure increased operational security, the establishment of an independent national network for electoral purposes, in addition to the application of existing document bureau and civil status systems, was justified. [[11.20]] For the National Election Office we planned HUF 8.9 billion for the 2014 elections. This includes additional expenditure due to a changed legislative environment, additional costs related to information technology, letter voting, registration, an average increase of 50 per cent in the size of ballot papers and the use of security paper. Without the extra expenses listed here, the amount planned for the parliamentary elections is HUF 800 million less than the amount planned for the 2010 parliamentary elections. The election of Members of Parliament in 2014 in the renewed legislative environment and institutional system, with very tight deadlines, despite the difficulties listed, was carried out smoothly, legally, in accordance with Hungary's Fundamental Law and the legislation. The state and public administration of the country, the electoral bodies, together with the collaborating bodies to facilitate the conduct of elections, have carried out a victimous, often night-long work to ensure that the will of voters is unquestioned and that domestic and international standards are met in every way. I thank the tens of thousands of people, civil servants, civil servants, members of all electoral bodies and electoral committees involved in the preparation, organisation and conduct of the vote, whose work contributed to the success of the elections of the Members of Parliament in 2014. I would like to thank the National Election Committee in particular for helping the National Election Office and the electoral bodies with its guidelines in their work on the application of law and the conduct of elections. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept my report. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2014-05-06-7	Dear Parliament, The Rules of Procedure 11. On the basis of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on the accounts without debate after the oath of the Members. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members of the Council to examine their mandates. I would like to ask Mrs Márta Demeter to explain how this works.
u2014-05-06-8	Dear Parliament, On the basis of electoral documents, we will examine the regularity of the credentials of Members and Spokespersons, acting as a body for examining mandates, together with the interim president and the date-bookers. In order to allow for a faster procedure, the documents previously received were consulted prior to the inaugural meeting.
u2014-05-06-9	Dear Parliament, The House Rule of Decision 8. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Article, the first five representatives of the register, Péter Ágh, Balázs Ander, István Apáti, András Aradszki and György Bajnai Gordon, shall examine the credentials of the interim president and the date-bookers. [[Defiance.]] According to the first five members of the register, Péter Ágh, Balázs Ander, István Apáti, András Aradszki and György Bajnai Gordon, acting as a body, examines the credentials of the interim president and the date-bookers. (Faintness.) The board is now formed. I would ask the members of the committee to go with the notaries to the Recording Office, to rooms 1-2 of the main floor. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a 20-minute recess for the term of office. (Recess: 11.24-12.04) Prime Minister: Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Notaries: Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas)
u2014-05-06-10	[[It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, The Governing Board has completed its procedure. We will now continue our work with the mandate certificate. I declare that Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas will continue to assist me in the leadership of the meeting. I would like to ask Mr Péter Ágh to present the results of the examination of the term of office of the interim president and the date-bookers.
u2014-05-06-11	Dear Parliament, On the basis of the electoral documents, the first five representatives of the register examined the credentials of the interim president and the date-bookers. He found all of these to be legal. On this basis, we recommend to the Parliament that the term of office of the interim president and of the notaries be verified. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-05-06-12	Dear Parliament, The Governing Board, assisted by the staff of the National Election Office, examined the credentials and electoral documents of all Members and Spokespersons. The Panel concluded that all of these were in compliance with the law. The seats shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the inaugural session to be decided by the first vote on the machine. Before that, we will carry out a presence check for technical reasons. Please make sure that your voting card is placed in the voting machine and press one of its buttons. [[It's happening.]] I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. [[The result appears on the display: 189 is present, 10 is away. For signal:]] I repeat: I declare the Parliament to have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, Several of our fellow Members seem to have either failed or forgotten to place their card in the right place. Please check and check your own card. Dear Parliament, I propose to the Parliament that, by its decision, it justify the mandate of elected Members of Parliament and spokespersons. Please vote by clicking the button. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of Members and Spokespersons by 197 votes in favour, not by votes and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas to publish a list of certified representatives and advocates.
u2014-05-06-13	The list of certified representatives is as follows. Péter Ágh Balázs Ander Dr. István Apáti Dr. András Aradski György Bajnai Gordon Balczó Zoltán György György Balla Tibor Mihály Balla Zoltán Balog Tibor Bana Ildikó Bangóné Borbély Erik Bánki Gábor Bányai Elemér Dr. Gergely Bárándy Péter Mónika Éva Bartos Zsolt Becsó János Bencsik Dr. Bene Ildikó Judge Mark László B Nagy Sándor Bodó Happy István Zoltán Bóna Dr. László László Botka István Dr. Gyula Budai Sándor Burány György Czerván Dr. Sándor Czomba Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyiné Zsolt Csenger-Zalán Peter Cseresnyés Péter Csizi Katalin Cöbör Béla Dankó Márta Demeter Zoltán Demeter Mónika Dunai Dóra Dúró Egyed Zsolt Flórian Farkas Gergely Farkas Mr Sándor Farkas Dr. Sándor Fazekas Mr Sándor Firtl Mátyás Dr. Gábor Fodor Dr. János Fónagy Vilmos Sándor Font László Földi Dr. Dénes Pigeonmos Attila Gelencsér Dr. Gulyás Gergely Winner Mr László Gúr Nándor Ádám Gyopáros Alpár Balázs Gyöngyösi Márton Balázs Győrffy Ferenc Gyurcsány Dr. Csaba Gyüre Sándor Hadházy János Halász Gábor István Bellozó Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó Dr. János György Hargitai Pál Harrach Gézan's Violinist Loránt Dr. Csaba Csaba Károly Hende Anita Herringes Dr. István Hiller Ferenc Hirt Impressive Dezső Dr. Rózsa Margit Hoffmann Dr. Péter Tamás Hoppál István Horváth László Dezső Horváth Dr. Richard Hörcsik István Ikotity István Jakab Dr. István Józsa Ákos Kara Lajos Kepli Dr. János Kerényi László Kiss Péter Kiss Dr. Károly Kontra Peter Konya Lajos Korózs Lajos Kósa Dr. József Kovács Dezső Mr Sándor Kovács Dr. Zoltán Kovács Dr. László Fat Csaba Gábor Kubatov László Kucsák Gergely Kulcsár Ágnes Kunhalmi Tamás László Jenő Lasztovicza Dr. János Latorcai Miklós Dr. János Lazarus Dr. Zsolt Legion Lezszak Sándor István L. Simon László Zoltán Géza Lukács Hungarian Zoltán Mr Vilmos Manninger Dr. Mátrai Mária Dr. Roland Mengyi Attila Csaba Mesterházy Adam Mirkóczki Dr. Ágnes Molnár Dr. Csaba Molnár István Dr. Zsolt Molnár Krisztián József Attila Móring Dr. István Nagy Dr Tibor Navracsics Németh Szilárd István Zsolt Attila Németh Attila Attila Novak Előd Dr. Zsolt Péter Nyitrai Dr. Lajos Oláh Dr. Viktor Orbán Károly Panczél Dr. Ferenc Papcsák Dr. Imre Pesti Szabolcs Petneházy Attila János Pócs Mr János Pogácsás Dr. László Pósán Árpád János Potápi Róbert Rácz Dr. Répássy Róbert Dr. Bence Máté Rétvári Gábor Riz Antal Rogán Dr. György Rubovszky Dr. László Salacz [[12.10]] Róbert Benedek Sallai András Schiffer Dr. Erzsébet Schmuck Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi Dr Zsolt Semjén Dr. Miklós István Seszták Dr. István Simicskó Dr. Miklós Simon Balázs Simon Róbert György Simonka Tamás Sneider Miklós Soltész Dr. Gábor Staudt Sándor Szabó Dr. Szabó Szabolcs Szabó Timea Zsolt Szabó Attila Szabolcs Dr. László Kács László Szászfalvi Kristóf Szatmáry István Szávay Dr. Wind Bernadett Peter Szijjártó György Szilágyi Dr. Lajos Szűcs András László Tállai Dr. Gergely Tapolczai József László Tasó László Teleki Károly Tessely Zoltán Dr. Tiba István Csaba Zsolt Tiffán Dr. Attila Tilki József Tobias Dr. Bertalan Tóth Csaba Tóth János Gábor Törő István Tukacs Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Dr. Bence Balázs Tuzson Dr. Ágnes Vadai Editor Sebestyén Gyula Vantara Gábor Varga József Varga Dr. László Varga Mihály Varga Tamás János Vargha Dr. Vas Imre Vécsey László József Dr. Imre Vejkey Árpád Velez László Vigh Dr. Winner Vinnai Dr. István Vitányi József Zsolt V. Németh János Volner Gábor Vona Dr. Pál Völner Mihály Witzmann Dr. Zombor Gábor Zoltán Zsiga-Kárpát Dániel Gábor Róbert Zsigó Vilmos Zsigó
u2014-05-06-14	The list of ethnic advocates is as follows: Alexov Lyubomir Dr. László László Csúcs Györgyné Félix Wolf Mr Sándor Fuzik Giricz Vera Yaroslava Hartyányi Michael Hepp Ms Kissné Köles Erika Koranis Laucratis Kresta Trajan Imre Ritter Dr. Tamás Turgyán Varga Simeon
u2014-05-06-15	Dear Parliament, It is now the solemn oath of the Members. Please stand to take the oath. [[The people present will stand up. The phantoms speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the presidential pulpit, and from the centre of the Chamber he asks permission from the interim president to import historic and national flags, who grants permission. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit. The commander of the decorative guard will take his place before the pulpit.]] Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to read the words of the oath. [[He reads the text of the oath, which is repeated by all Members standing up.]] I,... vow to be faithful to Hungary and its basic law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, after the inaugural sitting, the minority advocates will take an oath before the Speaker of Parliament. I declare that the new Parliament has been established by the oath of the Members. [[A big round of applause. The commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at the sound of the fanfares. The people present will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, [[Ferenc Gyurcsány, Dr. Csaba Molnár, Dr. Lajos Oláh, Dr. Ágnes Vadai remain standing, and during the speech of the interim president, the words "I promise that I will do everything in the Republic" begin to say a short text, which cannot be understood because of the president's voice and the noise. Intercoms.]] It follows the decision of the President of the National Election Committee and of the President of the National Election Office on the parliamentary election held on 6 April 2014. The reports are B/1. and B/2. They got it in numbers. [[12.20]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the President of the National Election Committee B/1. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the report by 165 votes to 31, with no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts B/2. as president of the National Election Office. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Please vote - who has not yet voted! [[Defiance.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the report by 163 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank the nearly 100,000 contributors in the country who helped in the successful organisation and conduct of the 2014 parliamentary elections. Dear Parliament, I declare that the parliamentary parties have formed their political group. The faction leaders of the house rule 12. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the group's name, the name of the group's leader and other officials and the list of members of the group were announced in writing. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the leader of the 117 members of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance is Mr.Antal Rogán ; Head of the 16th Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr.Péter Harrach (Applause) ; Head of the 29th Hungarian Socialist Party Group Mr Attila Mesterházy (Applause.) ; Head of the 23-person group of the Jobbik for Hungary Movement Gábor Vona (Applause.) ; The May Other is the leader of the 5th Political Group, Mr. András Schiffer. (Applause) Dear Parliament, The election of the Speaker of Parliament by secret ballot follows. The Parliamentary Act 6. Pursuant to Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act, the leaders of the political groups made a joint motion on the person of the Speaker. In view of this, S/3. In my proposal No.3 I initiated that Parliament elect Mr.László Kövér as Speaker of the House. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The political group leaders have put forward a joint motion for the Speaker. In view of this, S/3. In my proposal No.3 I initiated that Parliament elect Mr.László Kövér as Speaker of the House. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ) I call attention to the fact that the law 6. Paragraph 4 of this Article provides that an amendment may not be submitted. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the election of the Speaker shall take place by secret ballot. Dear Parliament, Annex 1 to the Rules of Procedure contains the order of conduct of the secret ballot. I'm going to ask Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas to give me the most important information.
u2014-05-06-16	Dear Parliament, The rules of the secret vote are as follows. During the vote, the chairman of Parliament and the voter counting committee shall act. The ballot paper can be taken over by the representatives in the Danube corridor from a group corresponding to the initial of their names. The polling booths are located at the end of the corridor. A valid vote for the candidate may be placed in one of the squares "yes', "no' or " abstain' next to his name, with two intersecting lines. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the vote from which it cannot be established how the Member voted is invalid. If the Member has failed to fill out the ballot paper, he shall inform the notaries serving at the urn of this before the vote is cast, who shall include the corrupted ballot paper and replace it with a new one.
u2014-05-06-17	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to come to the table marked with a sign corresponding to the initial of their names, where they will receive the ballots. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the practice of previous formational meetings, you should take it with you and present your representatives' credentials before receiving the ballot. The ballot paper may only be handed over against it. After that, the fact of the recording on the register will be confirmed by your signature. During the voting period, only Members and voters shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. No one shall in any way verify the votes of the Members during the secret vote. They shall not be recorded on any technical means and shall not be possible by the Member. I would ask my fellow Members to vote from the beginning of the break in order to facilitate the work of notaries. I would like to inform you that the opening and conclusion of the secret vote is also indicated by the meeting room bell.
u2014-05-06-18	Dear Parliament, In the negotiations prior to the inaugural meeting, the participants agreed that representatives of the factions from which no dater was included should participate in the determination of the outcome of the secret vote. I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring, Member of the LMP faction, Mr István KDNP and Ikotity, to participate in the work of the ballot counting board. I would like to inform you that you have 20 minutes to vote. Now I'm ordering a 40-minute break for the vote and the count. (Recess: 12.27-13.40) Prime Minister: Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Recorders: Anita Heringes and Ágnes Kunhalmi)
u2014-05-06-19	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Anita Heringes and Ágnes Kunhalmi will continue to assist me in the leadership of the meeting. I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. It concluded that no event had taken place affecting the validity of the vote. The secret vote was valid and effective. I'll give you the results of the vote. In the secret ballot 196 Members took the ballot. On the person of László Fatér, 196 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 3 and the number of valid votes 193. Of this, the number of votes in favour is 171 the number of non-votes 19, the number of abstentions 3. I declare that the Parliament has elected Mr László Kövér as President of the Parliament. [[A big round of applause. László Fat is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] Now it's time for the solemn oath. I would ask Mr László Kövér, Speaker of the House, to come to the middle of the Chamber, and I would ask the Parliament to listen to the oath standing up as usual. [[The people present will stand up. The National Flag Parliamentary Guard comes in from the Presidential Pulpit and, breaking the flag, stands in the middle of the hall for the duration of the oath. The interim president reads the words of the oath.]]
u2014-05-06-20	I, László Kövér, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its basic law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Speaker of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[It's a long applause. Dr. János Áder, Viktor Orbán and Dr. Zsolt Semjén congratulate László Köver.]]
u2014-05-06-21	I ask Mr László Kövér to sign the oath document, and Mr Péter Csizi, notary [[Disruption and intervention from the lines of the MSZP: Notary? Of course!]] I'd like you to help me with the signature. [[László Fat will sign the oath. László Kövér Péter Csizi, Gábor Vona, Dr. András Schiffer, Attila Mesterházy, Péter Harrach and Antal Rogán congratulates László Kövér.]] Allow me to congratulate you on the election of Mr Speaker, and wish you every success in your work. I also apologize to this House, but the lawyer will always be a lawyer. [[Applause, applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, According to the monitor's signal, there are 183 cards. I'd like you to check your card, please. Dear Parliament, The Vice-Presidents and the notaries will now be elected. Dear Parliament, On the basis of a joint motion from the group leaders, Mr S/3. I propose that the Parliament elect 6 Vice-Presidents, including the Vice-President responsible for the legislative process and 10 notaries. Under the agreement, I will initiate to the Parliament Vice-President István Jakab, Sándor Lezszak, Fidesz, János Latorcai, KDNP, István Hiller, MSZP and Tamás Sneider, Jobbik, Vice-President responsible for the legislation Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz, notary János Pócs, Tibor Pogács and Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz, László Földi and Attila József Móring, Attila KDNP, Nándor Gúr and Dezső, MSZP, Loránt Hegedűs and Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik, and Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, choose. A proposal to amend personal proposals cannot be submitted, and Parliament decides on them separately without discussion. Dear Parliament, I ask you whether István Jakab will be elected Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: elected by 192 votes in favour, 2 votes against, without abstention by the Parliament as Vice-President of István Jakab. Dear Parliament, I ask you if Sándor Lezsák will be elected vice-president of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Sándor Lezsák as Vice-President of the Parliament by 192 votes in favour, 2 votes against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask you if you will elect János Latorcai as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 193 votes in favour, 2 votes against, and without abstention, János Latorcai was elected Vice-President of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I ask you if István Hiller will be elected Vice President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: By 191 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstention, István Hiller was elected Vice-President of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I ask you if Tamás Sneider will be elected Vice President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Tamás Sneider as Vice-President of the Parliament by 150 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 5 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches and in the ranks of Jobbik.]] [[13.50]] Dear Parliament, I ask you if Gergely Gulyás will be elected Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Gergely Gulyás as vice-president of the Parliament, 192 yes, 2 non-voting, with one abstention. I declare that by electing Gergely Gulyás as Vice President, he has become President of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the identity of the notaries of the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he elects János Pócs as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected János Pócs as notary of the Parliament with 192 votes in favour, not without a vote, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects Tibor Pogácsás as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Tibor Pogácsás as notary of the Parliament with 193 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Lajos Szűcs as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Lajos Szűcs as notary of the Parliament by 193 votes, 1 votes against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect László Földi as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected László Földi as notary of the National Assembly with 193 votes, 2 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Attila József Moring as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 191 yes, 2 with no vote and without abstention Attila Móring has elected Attila József Móring as notary of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Nándor Gúr as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Nándor Gúr as notary of the Parliament by 193 votes in favour, not by vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects Dezső the Believer to be the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Dezső Széchenyi with 194 votes in favour, not with no vote and no abstention as notary of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects Mrs. Lorant Hegedűs as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mrs Hegedűs as notary of the Parliament by 187 votes, 4 votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Adam Mirkóczki as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Ádám Mirkóczki as notary of the Parliament with 190 votes, 3 votes against, 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Erzsébet Schmuck as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Erzsébet Schmuck as notary of the Parliament with 193 votes in favour, not without a vote, with one abstention. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the elected officials, and to wish them success in the performance of their work. Dear Parliament, I declare that, with the formation of the political groups and the election of the officials of the Parliament, the House Committee has been established. Members of the House Committee: Mr László Kövér Speaker; István Jakab, Sándor Lezsák, János Latorcai, István Hiller, Tamás Sneider Vice-Presidents; Mr Gergely Gulyás Vice-President responsible for legislation; and Mr Antal Rogán, Fidesz; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Attila Mesterházy, MSZP; Gábor Vona, Jobbik; András Schiffer, LMP, group leaders. Dear Parliament, I hereby hand over the leadership of the meeting to Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, and Lajos Szűcs and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. (The chair is occupied by László Kövér, President of the Parliament. The notary seats are occupied by Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs. ) [[14.00]]
u2014-05-06-22	Honourable President of the Republic. Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, My countrymen! First of all, it is my duty to thank you, first of all, on behalf of all my newly elected fellow Members; I must thank the citizens for their trust, the confidence they have chosen us to be members of this House. On behalf of all of us, I would also like to thank the representatives of the last term for the enormous amount and importance of work that has been done, for the stability that, avoiding the collapse, we have highlighted our country from the crisis, and we have created a new 21st century. The legal basis for centuries of state and nation building. Special thanks to our former fellow Members who are not here today in the new Parliament, because, by taking away the opportunity to obtain a mandate themselves, they have contributed to the electoral reform, one of the most important consequences of which is to reduce the mandates that can be distributed by half. I still have to thank all the employees of the Parliamentary Office on behalf of the whole House for the reliability and dedication that have been common for more than two decades to support the work of Members over the past four years and have prepared the formation of a new Parliament. Finally, on my behalf, I thank this House for its trust in me, the nomination and the votes cast. I'm trying to make it worth my while. If I can't promise to please everyone, but I can promise to do so by listening to the voice of my conscience, in a predictable and equitable manner. I believe that the increase in the authority of Parliament is not only in the interests of the whole nation, but also in the interests of each Member and every party they have created. That is why I call on my fellow Members to act in this spirit in the course of their term of office. The dignity of Parliament must also be reflected in the behaviour of Members. This is an expression of respect and a measure of respect for voters. This cannot be imagined without respect for human dignity, which belongs to all people and their communities, whether they belong to a minority or to the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, With today's inaugural session, we will not only begin a new legislative cycle, but also a new era in many respects. The seventh Parliament with a significantly reduced number after the start of the system change must tread out new ways of operation according to new house rules. The same amount of work can be done by fewer people, at least as usual, but if possible by better organisation. In addition to the Members, for the first time the advocates of nationalities join the legislative work, as is the fact that this is the first House of Representatives in Hungary's history, which represents the whole nation on the basis of general and secret and equal suffrage, i.e. more than Parliament. However, this must not only be a form, but also a matter of content. MEPs speak among the walls of this House as parties, i.e. as members of the parts, but they must politicalise in the interests of the nation. And Parliament as a body can only fulfil its vocation, the representation of the whole nation, if we, as representatives, find the common denominator, which has been so painfully absent from our public life in the last quarter of a century, in answers to the challenges posed by history and the future. The stakes today are no less than in the age of István Széchenyi, who said in the Stadium: " To keep a nation for mankind, it is, and it is no less, a matter now,'and it is up to us to do so. " Ladies and gentlemen, By the grace of the Creator and by the honor of the voters, I was able to take an oath among the walls of this House seven times, and for the second time I was elected President of the Parliament. In addition to the mandatory modesty and the necessary optimism for life, I may say that I already have more experience than I have left. [[Defiance.]] Including today, with regard to the events and statements of the time since the elections, I can only see the basis for a cautious hope that in the cycle ahead we can put behind us those barren struggles that digest energy worth a better fate, which have been almost continuous accompanying the transformation that has been taking place since 1990. However, I believe that the elections are also for the electorate to decide from time to time the debates between the political players. This is what they have done now, and they have also entrusted us with the continuation of the country building work that began in four years. Let us therefore do this, my fellow Members, together, differing in what must be done and in agreement with what may be done. To do this, I ask God to give us all good health, strength, wisdom, and endurance. And I wish you good work. [[It's a long applause.]] Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, the landlady is the official of the Parliament. I'm the one who has to propose to you. Based on this, S/4. I propose that the Parliament elect Mrs Mátrai Márta as a housekeeper. Dear Parliament, The Act on Parliament 11. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) (g), the Parliament shall decide on the person nominated for the office of the housekeeper after the hearing of the House Committee. So I'm ordering a 20-minute recess, and I'd like to ask the House Committee members to come to the Delegation Room. (Recess: 14.06-14.45) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs)
u2014-05-06-23	My fellow Members, please take your seats, we will continue our work. I would ask my fellow Members to check their cards in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The House Committee held its meeting, in which she listened to Mrs Mátrai Márta. The Parliament now decides on the person of the landlady by an open vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether she elects Mrs Mátrai Márta to be the housekeeper of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Dear House, I declare that the Parliament elected Mátrai Mártá with 160 votes in favour, unanimously, to the Housekeeper of the Parliament. The landlady became a member of the House Committee, with the total number of the House Committee. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and on my behalf, to congratulate the elected landlady on her assignment and wish her work good luck and good health. Dear Parliament, I declare that, pursuant to Article 20 (1) of the Fundamental Law and point 2 (a), the mandate of the Government has ceased with the establishment of the newly elected Parliament. Under Article 22 (1) of the Fundamental Law, until the establishment of the new Government, the Government will remain in office and exercise all the rights which the Government enjoys, but it cannot recognise the binding effect of an international treaty, and it can create a decree only on the basis of the explicit authorisation of the law, in an indeterminate case. Dear House, I would remind you that President János Áder asked Mr.Orbán to be Prime Minister yesterday morning and presented his proposal to the Parliament at the beginning of the inaugural session. I would like to inform you that Prime Minister-designate Viktor Orbán has indicated that he wishes to live at our later meeting with his right to speak. Dear Parliament, The resolution of the Parliamentary motion for a resolution on the establishment of Parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members will follow. The Commission's proposal was adopted during the preparation of the inaugural meeting. According to the group leaders' agreement, considering the views of independent representatives, I proposed to those who had agreed to be nominated. That's H/5. You can get to know him. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of a joint motion, I will propose persons not nominated as members of the committee, as well as the names and officials of the nationality committee, at the next House Committee meeting. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we can elect members of the National Security and Homeland Security Committee today who have national security clearance. The other members will be elected later. In view of the fact that, under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, we have to separate the President of the Legislative Committee, first we decide on the Commission system, the officials and members of the committees, then we vote on the Chairman of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that H/5. It shall establish its Commission system and elect the officials or members of the committees, with the exception of the Chairman of the Legislative Committee, as set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 185 votes in favour, the House unanimously established the Commission system, elected Commission officials and members of the committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the chairman of the legislative committee to choose. I remind you that the Parliament has elected Gergely Gulyás as Vice-President responsible for the legislative process. The Vice-President has become the candidate for president of the legislative committee. I ask this House whether it elects Mr. Gulyás Gergely to chair the legislative committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Mr Gulyás Gergely, with 185 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention, as Chairman of the Legislative Committee. Allow me to wish all elected Commission officials and members effective work and good luck. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, Dear Guests! We've come to the end of today's work. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place on Saturday 10 May 2014, beginning at 15:00. The inaugural session is now closed. I'm gonna ask you to stand up and sing the Word together. [[The people in the room stand up and sing the Word, and then the members of the Jobbik faction begin to sing the Székely anthem, to which the majority of the pro-government representatives join.]] [[The meeting ended at 2.55 p.m.]]
