u2014-12-09-0	Dear Parliament, The 25th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today, before the agenda, Mr Tóth, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a speech with the title 'It is not too late'. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-09-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This is what the people wanted, Mr.Orbán said as a candidate for Prime Minister Fidesz, when he was given two-thirds power in the 2010 elections. This is what the people wanted, Mr.Orbán said as Prime Minister of Fidesz, when he abolished the Republic of Hungary at the same time as the adoption of the new Fundamental Law. This is what the people wanted, says Viktor Orbán, as Prime Minister of Fidesz, when, as part of central politics, he, by denying all the principles of democracy, destroys our democratic achievements and forces the illiberal Hungary in which we must live. With the support of Fidesz by two-thirds, Viktor Orbán will establish a distorted country where he amends laws and laws in accordance with his own and service interests, whether daily or if he sees it as necessary. Where there is no system of brakes and balances, because the members of the Constitutional Court, the Chief Prosecutor, the President of the National Court Office, can only be those who have the confidence of Viktor Orbán. Where ministers get rich, they buy houses, homes for tens of millions, for themselves, for their children, but no resources are included in their declarations of property, yet nothing happens. Where the president of the National Tax Office is involved in corruption scandals, and now we hear that he may have been an active participant, but no government investigation will be launched. Where you can be a legally convicted representative in a local government for a criminal offence, and you can treason unpunished people who use their civil rights to express their displeasure at a legitimate protest. Where land is available only to those who are linked to Fidesz, although they have nothing to do with agriculture. Where the education system is transformed by Viktor Orbán with the two-thirds help of Fidesz so that he doesn't have the opportunity to learn, only for the rich protection children, where the Prime Minister talks about the importance of mass sports, but builds stadiums in some privileged settlements, some professional athletes of a privileged sport. Is that really what the people wanted? And you add this to the 2015 budget, to the budget, which, in the event of its implementation, will provide further assistance to those living in a better way, and the fate of those living in poverty will continue to deteriorate. Of course, we know from John Lazarus that all of you are worth what you have. Those who can't work, you think they shouldn't eat, or even eat their children, because they don't get any benefits, let alone family benefits. Of course, we know it's a matter of life. You put the municipalities in an impossible position and turn them into scapegoats. The municipalities are drastically reducing the costs of child welfare, public health care, housing support, income replacement support and forcing them to raise taxes and levy property taxes. This step will further increase the number of millions of poor people living below the minimum level of living, leading this country to a real social disaster. We see that you do not leave anyone on the side of the road. They shove it in the ditch, and they even make sure there's no way to get out of there. In the meantime, stadiums are being built, nationalization doggies, farm doggies, tramp doggies, and there will be tobacco dogs, liquor dogs, gas doggies and who knows what else. The people, the God-given people, just pay the new taxes! Is that really what the people wanted? Ladies and gentlemen, The people never wanted this, and now they say it out loud in the streets and squares. The Hungarian Socialist Party hears the voice of the people, so we submitted two amendments to the budget, worth HUF 400 billion, which does not jeopardise the budgetary balance. In this amending package, we increase the amount for family allowances, support the social assistance tasks of local authorities with additional resources, and increase the amount that can be used to provide free meals to children in need. We support the wage development programme of social workers, the social career model, and we propose additional support for the pedagogical career model. We increase the amount of disability rehabilitation benefits, support families, increase childcare allowance, maternity allowance, child-rearing allowance. We support the employment of workers with disabilities, support the system of public health care, support the retention of high school seats, the development of local government kindergartens, the establishment of gymnasiums and educational schools in schools. Because what the people want is equal opportunities in the education of our children, better quality health care, social security, solidarity. The people want peace, freedom and security. The people want democracy and a clean public life, which is of particular importance today, the World Anti-Corruption Day. It's time to hear the people's voices. It's not too late. Thank you very much. [[An MSZP congressman applauds.]]
u2014-12-09-2	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-09-3	Thank you very much for the floor. It would be a very nice speech from the MSZP if it hadn't been on the MSZP government and we didn't know what he was really doing when he was talking about it. The socialists had similar plans, and they never succeeded. On democracy and the electoral system, the MSZP approach is quite interesting, because when we hold three elections throughout the country, parliamentary, European Parliament or local governments, it is constantly said that this is an irregular choice in such a way that electoral rules are not acceptable to the Socialist Party. But when, under the same rules, the socialists win or retain a mandate more precisely, these rules immediately become completely European and democratic. This shows that the socialists do not like only the electoral rule when the people do not choose them, but it does not depend on the rules, honourable Member, but on credibility. As for the billionaires, give us a socialist prime minister who has been Prime Minister of Hungary since the change of regime, who lives among us today and is not a billionaire. Name one. He can't say. You, who speak here in Parliament on behalf of the small people, have only and have only put billions in Hungary's seat as Prime Minister. Plus, they became billionaires during a bit of a confusing period of change. [[Attila Mesterházy: Orbán!]] Obviously, those cases have long since been legally oblivious to oblivion and statute of limitations, but regardless of this, many would be interested in how the Hungarian Socialist Party has gathered their billion-dollar fortunes here on the basis of ordinary wages and salaries in the Prime Minister's seat. [[Attila Mesterházy: Viktor Orbán how?]] and how and how they lived before and after the regime change. If we look at the relationship between politicians and the criminal code, honourable Member, if someone reads the news, if someone looks at the news, what kind of party do you see present or former politicians on the defendant's bench? [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Acquittal.]] Take a look at this, Your Honour, whether it's any news. Which party's politicians are sitting in court on the defendants' bench? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] János Zuschlag, Gábor Simon, Miklós Hagyó, György Hunvald - they turned in court. In the case of Fidesz-KDNP, although Fidesz-KDNP has been ruling for the fifth year, fortunately none of these cases could be revealed because they were not implemented. If you look at it, you've been out of government for five years, but your corruption cases are still in the courts. You should think about that before someone else is falsely accused of a crime, that their own politicians are sitting on the defendant's bench. Here, in the parliamentary horseshoe, it is easy to accuse the other side of corruption, obviously many oppositions do so in many countries. Maybe there is no opposition party that doesn't call the ruling parties corrupt. But if someone looks at the real content of these alleged crimes, somehow so far, although you have not been ruling for five years, but it's still about your corruption cases in court. [[9.10]] As far as the world of social assistance is concerned, what the Member has said here in the last few minutes, is once again an opposition hoax collection in such a way that you generate news, which has no basis for reality, cannot be read out of the budget, and then you try to make yourself appear as those who speak on this issue and defend these issues. Honourable Congressman, I do not know how you can guarantee high school seats in the budget where there are no lines for this; of course, next year's budget includes support for secondary schools in the same way. You know as well as I do that it contains an expanding line, as the 2014 HUF 196 billion instead of HUF 209 billion will be included next year, i.e. HUF 13 billion more in support of high school students. The Hungarian government will spend more on this age group next year, we will all spend more than we have spent this year. When you talk about social aid, honourable Member... - and it is now obvious to everyone from our bill that Fidesz-KDNP provides automatic subsidies guaranteed by the State through district government offices, while requests for equity based on the knowledge of local personal relations, which require local appreciation for expenditure costs, will be distributed by the municipalities. The municipality has a source of this, since, on the one hand, while more than 70 of its tasks were taken over by district government offices, the number of local government employees increased, so obviously there is also a source of this for the municipality, and the municipalities also have coverage of this from the freedom to levy taxes. I see that the congressman is not interested in my answer, because he is very good with his fellow Members. This will make it easier for you to speak with conviction next time if you do not listen to our answer, because then you do not know what the realities are, what the numbers are. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: I can focus more!]] And so much more so... if you have shared attention, I congratulate you on that, of course. [[Zoltán Lukács: Some people can do it! The president's ringing the bell.]] So, on the other hand, the municipalities also have coverage of this. [[Zoltán Lukács: You must master it!]] So, honourable Member, what you're saying [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit. Zoltán Lukács: Why pay attention to such an answer?]] they were false statements from the budget one by one. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Lukács: You'd better take a drug test. You guys were talking weird.]]
u2014-12-09-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik Group also applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-09-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to highlight how safe we Hungarians are when there is serious armed conflict in one of the neighbouring states and what the Hungarian government should do to keep Hungarian people in peace. This basically requires two things: a strong, powerful army that guarantees the security of our country and a foreign and defence policy that does not put Hungary at risk. This is the title I gave to my speech, a quote from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who said this recently, just during the trial of the Finance Act, in Vilnius. The problem with this sentence is that we do not see the security costs that would guarantee greater security in our country. Minister Hende has often mentioned international commitments, but we are very far from NATO's expectation to spend 2% of GDP on defence: the overall military budget represents only 0.75 percent of GDP. This is the 25th of the 28 Member States, according to the NATO Secretary-General's report. If security expenditure is indeed a priority, then this should be urgently changed, and now the aim is to reach 1.5 percent by 2022, as the Minister has repeatedly said. The military's equipment needs to be improved in every way, the infantry weapons are weak, we're short on tanks, we don't have a combat helicopter. At the time of the change of regime, our army of more than 100,000 has now shrunk to a quarter, representing only about 5,000 soldiers that can be deployed; this is less than 10 percent of the number required in peace. With a total number of 8 000 volunteers, only 5,500 are currently accounted for, of which only 13 percent are under 30 years of age; more young people would be needed in this area. A serious problem is the decommissioning, abandoning of skilled, highly skilled military personnel, the Hungarian Defence Office loses a great deal of protection and value. This should be stopped and the military career should be attractive for young people. It is welcome that in 2015 the government intends to increase the wage of soldiers, but we consider it to be low, and the salary of our soldiers is still very low in both international and domestic terms. Experts agree that the Hungarian Defence Office would not be able to defend the country even for a period of time in the event of an external attack until NATO military machinery is launched. This is not a criticism for Hungarian soldiers, of course, because they do their job to the full, they do not lack skills or skills, but because of underfundedness, these are, unfortunately, facts. We seriously miss Hungary's participation in missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and other third worlds: on the one hand, we can become the target of Islamic fundamentalists and, on the other hand, Hungarian soldiers should not go abroad for foreign interests. These are commitments, which are not obligations, do not serve our country's interests. We also do not consider it appropriate to include Ukraine in the V4 battle group at this very critical time. I also propose rethinking the provision of air protection for the Baltic countries due by 2015, since it is better not to think about what would happen if the Russian-Ukrainian conflict were to escalate. Unfortunately, there is every chance of that, which is what our northern neighbor's Prime Minister Robert Fico has been talking about recently, citing German resources. I'd like to avoid all kinds of rumors and panic, but I'm afraid we'll have to deal with that. The war, referred to as the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, is actually a geopolitical conflict between the United States and Russia. Hungary cannot have any reason or reason to participate in a possible armed conflict between NATO or the EU and Russia. It would be important that both the parliamentary parties and the government declare that they are on the side of peace and neutrality, and that no international treaty can force us to participate in a possible, expanding conflict. Unfortunately, the worrying signs of the Eastern situation are growing day by day, so I ask you - what President Gábor Vona has already done last week - for all political parties to form behind the declaration of peace and neutrality, to act together and to tell our allies in advance that Hungary does not want to play any part in this conflict in the future. This is our national interest, this is the national minimum, which can be expected from political actors. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-09-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to ask - no matter how great and tempting the urge - that our country's security and security policy should not be sacrificed on the side of the actual political battles. Of course, I understand that by asking the Jobbik faction, it is intended to find an excuse by some hair to criticize the government. I understand, but allow me to express my disapproval because Hungary's safety is a much more important issue. However, if your speech is not guided by such self-interest, or party interest, then I would rather not look for the motivation behind the topic, because I might come to serious conclusions, even with security risks. You say you don't want to be a rumor and you want to avoid panicking. Congressman, do that. Don't spread rumors, and don't cause panic, especially don't say false things in front of this House. You just said it was a mistake to be on an Iraqi mission. Hungary is not participating in an Iraqi mission at the moment, so take over this piece of material in the textbook, my dear Member. Thank you for agreeing with our Prime Minister that security expenditure is a priority because there is a war going on next door. You say you see no trace of this in the budget; you must learn to read the budget, honourable Member. [[9.20]] If you look at this year's total expenditure, you will look at next year's expenditure total and look at the HUF 11 billion in the reserve that will be used to raise the average 30 percent salary of the military from next July, and you will see, honourable Member, that the budget will increase by more than HUF 20 billion next year, as regards the total expenditure. This is approaching the 10% increase, my dear fellow Member. Compared to the fact that, in a different security situation, in 2012, the Hungarian Government, as agreed by NATO, has committed itself to gradually increasing the defence budget from the 2016 budget year onwards and thus establishing our very ambitious military development goals, it will also see that, in the changed circumstances, precisely because we are now giving priority to security expenditure, we have brought this commitment forward and, ahead of other very important matters, hopefully not to the detriment of them, we will increase our budget by more than HUF 20 billion next year. You're saying we don't have 8,000 reserve guys, just about 5300. When we took office in 2010, my dear Member, we didn't have a single reserve member. He says there's not enough young people in reserve. And tell me, how many of your friends and acquaintances have applied for reserve military training so far? We're gonna call and wait for everyone, so don't tell the government that no one else is going to show up. He doesn't think much of a salary increase. Well, the government has decided that in the coming years, from next year, when we raise 30 percent and increase the salary by 5 percent a year for the next four years, it will raise the salary by 50 percent. This is done within the framework of a new career. You say, honourable Member, that this is not enough. Well, this old game, there's no number that the opposition can't say one more. It is unprecedented for the defence to carry out such a wage increase. Let us be very proud to be able to do this. I would not recommend that the military's abilities and military value be abandoned so clearly unfounded. I ask you to trust our soldiers, trust the military leaders who are responsible for the armed defense of our country under the Fundamental Law and the Defense Act. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-8	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group: Pope Ferenc in the EU Chamber also came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-09-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with the speech of the Catholic Head of Church in the European Parliament, various evaluations were published in the Hungarian public. Most have highlighted sentences criticizing the enforcement of bureaucratism and multinational economic interests, suggesting that Pope Francis's message underpins the legitimacy of the Fidesz Freedom Fight. On the other hand, I think that, after reviewing the head of the church's thoughts, a government calling out for Christian values itself ought to take a very deep look at itself, because from a Christian point of view, there has been a thorough criticism of governance since 2010, whether it is the issue of the rule of law, economic policy, social policy, education policy, the environment or the world of work. So let's take these in a row. Pope Francis considered the struggle for human dignity as one of the most important achievements of modern Europe, putting the issue of the enforcement of freedoms at the heart of the European community's policy. Of course, the struggle for abstract freedoms does not excite many at first. It may seem to be a quarrel between politicians, but the head of the church is very clear on why it is important to represent these values, what it means in practice. First of all, the fact that power cannot be unlimited, and the legislator, which has been elected by a large majority, cannot do anything, is also subject to fundamental values that protect human dignity. The disregard of freedoms and the reduction of guarantees for their protection make people vulnerable, because they cannot turn to where they are, if they lose their pension, they cannot defy the power of the individual, if his business and his family's livelihood are made impossible overnight by power; or if he puts his hands on his lands or suddenly nationalizes his pension savings. The great threat of economic globalisation is the enormous financial power of multinational corporations over nation states, against which individual countries are vulnerable and which only a well-functioning democratic European Union and international cooperation can undermine. I quote:.. You must not give in to multinational interests that weaken democracy and transform it into uniforming financial power systems that serve the forces in the background. The question of how the Hungarian government, which, in its rhetoric, is anti-multilateral but virtually proponent of the enlargement of free trade cooperation between the EU and the US, did not support the taxation of financial speculation at international level, and which is in strategic partnership with the mulltiks and actively contributed to attracting foreign capital, is increasing employee vulnerability. I don't think we can be proud of the government in this area either. From a Christian perspective, I believe that the most serious criticism can be the government in terms of poverty policy, the reduction of the social safety net and the tax policy that rewards the rich. It seems that Viktor Orbán's favourite quote from the Scriptures is that those who already have it still give it to those who do not have it, even take away what they have. The government policy of the last few years was about putting the poor at the disadvantage of an urban, privileged layer. The poorer layers are also affected by government education policy, when the limits of education obligation are set, or when children are forced from careers that give rise to orbits that do not perpetuate their break, but increase their vulnerability. Of course, there are conflicting good measures, such as free textbooks, but unfortunately the general direction is against it. And last but not least, we cannot miss Pope Francis's most important words about our future as regards sustainability. I quote: "We are not masters of nature, but guardians of nature, which we must respect and love. We must cultivate well with the free gift that God has placed in man's hands. Man is also an integral part of nature, so besides environmental protection, human ecology is needed. A government whose head considers the issue of sustainability only secondary to the interests of economic development is entitled to live up to the future of our children and grandchildren. The government, which drastically derails the environmental institution system, which is preparing to empty national parks and which is subject to all the interests of the investor's capital, does not represent Christian values, but is fighting against them. Thank you.
u2014-12-09-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-09-11	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much, on the one hand, for monitoring the operation and thought of Pope Francis and the Catholic Church and the churches as liberal representatives. I also thank you, despite the fact that you have not mentioned the role of religion, the church in society with any sentence in your 2010 programme, you have suddenly woken up, and now suddenly you are trying to hold onto it. And I am also pleased that their liberal and other pro-green party companions out in the Strasbourg Parliament have finally used the visit to Strasbourg to attack the church, not to attack the church, but rather to recognise that there is a huge problem in Europe. What Pope Francis said in Europe is a path to follow and a goal to be pursued, which must be followed not only by Hungary, not only by individual persons, but also by parties and, where appropriate, by the party's programme. Allow me, in fact, to deny - as much time and opportunity I have now - the sentences you have spoken. [[9.30]] On the one hand, Pope Francis draws attention to the basic and most sophisticated part of the family, society. For the past four years, the family policy of this government has played a prominent role for all the people to be taken care of and the need for family attention throughout society, that is for sure. We have received the International Association of Large Families Award for a reason in recent years, and it is no coincidence that in recent years many governments have followed the family policy that has been implemented either in the tax system or in any other area of the support system. This is closely linked to the idea of Pope Francis, which is indeed the idea of the poor. It would be good, honourable Member, if you and a good part of the opposition could understand and see what an active policy against poverty - and not an anti-poor policy, as some parties on the left often say - would be good for you to join in and support it. It is no coincidence that one of the most important areas of this is to give, as far as possible, work instead of aid. It is no coincidence that the number of people who are now bringing their income home to their families with work instead of aid has increased greatly, and by doing so, they are giving their children a sample, perhaps the most important one. It is no coincidence that, however much the left-wing liberal media is trying to lie down the results that have been achieved in the area of child feeding and in the fight against child poverty in recent years, but the facts are the figures that you cannot deny that 29 billion in 2010, 53 billion in this year and another 5 billion in next year's support for children's meals is increasing. In other words, between 2010 and 2015, this support will double, and this is part of the fight against poverty. You are also absolutely right that what needs to be done, whether in the green area or in nature conservation, must be done, not only in Hungary, but throughout the world. Pope Francis drew attention to this for a reason. I believe that Hungary's green policy - as a result of the joint work of civil society organisations and the government - is an example, and it does aim to preserve nature not only for us, but also for our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Honourable Congressman, As opposed to you, who have constantly insulted the presence of the church on the left and liberal, Pope Francis points out precisely that the presence of the church makes Europe strong in many ways - it makes it strong and resilient to the extremes. Help us to ensure that the presence of the church is strong either in faith or in institution-keeping, in the field of social, child protection, or in educational maintenance, and that there is also a spiritual strength for young generations to be able to oppose theisms that I believe no society wants back from XX. From the hundredth century, we can fight it. I would also like to thank you for the fight that Pope Francis drew attention to, but the great powers are still delaying the fact that Christians who are being persecuted are being persecuted by extremists all over the world, so let us act together and do so together. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think they deserve to finally be able to live a decent and normal life, not be afraid of their lives. Thank you very much for raising these questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-09-13	Mr President, Dear House, All humans are responsible for all humans, and if a fellow human is poor, then our responsibility is to alleviate this. Of course, it is not everyone's responsibility at the same level, because if someone has undertaken to deal with this issue professionally, it has a much greater responsibility. That's what politicians do. Of course, I am not talking about party policy debates, because if the problem of poverty is dealt with, we do this at three levels. The first thing I mentioned earlier, the party policy debates, they certainly do not produce results, because they are not designed to alleviate poverty, but to discredit the other side. The next level is government measures, supported by a parliamentary decision, and the third is the level of charitable organisations, ecclesiastical communities and responsible citizens. Let me just say a few words about the first one. It is clear that the ambition that appears in the political debates is increased today in Hungary. Just now, when the opposition, a representative of the MSZP, spoke before the agenda, it was clear that the communication strategy, which was only about a lack of democracy at the beginning, was in place, and since this did not produce any results, a new strategy was put in place. The point of this is to prove that right-wing politicians are getting rich and the country is getting poorer. To this end, they also say untruths, distort comments, and emphasize them. However, real results are only on the next level, with government measures, and, as I mentioned, the third level, the charitable organisations. What has happened with regard to government measures - I would like to give some examples of this. Turning to work instead of aid means that wages are more than aid, not only in nominal value, but also in human terms, as they increase self-assessment. Unemployment is one of the elements of exclusion. To this end, I think we have results that we can be proud of, i.e. reducing unemployment and increasing employment. Corrupting indicators include an increase in debt to energy suppliers. This shows that reducing energy prices is an important element in the fight against poverty. This includes the firewood programme, which took place in 2014 with 268 municipalities, and, of course, the reduction in overhead costs, which resulted in a reduction of practically 20-25 percent for families. There is an area that is mentioned a lot, and I would like to stop here for a few minutes: child poverty. First of all, we need to talk about free or reduced meals. In 2009, in the last full year of the social-liberal government, HUF 26 billion was spent on this purpose. In 2014, it will be double, nearly HUF 53 billion and HUF 58 billion in 2015. There's a lot of talk about a summer meal. We must say that all disadvantaged settlements have won the tender that aimed at this. 120,000 children ate for free during the summer break, during the year 275,000 children received free school, kindergarten meals, and 150,000 children half price. We want to increase this number significantly in the next period. We could talk about the free textbook, the regular child protection support that affected 160,000 children, but we could mention to their parents the development of the public work programme, which, if I looked at the numbers correctly, means 270 billion next year. I think this could be classified further. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But my time is up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-09-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, The socialists' accusations that more and more people are living in poverty in Hungary are being denied not only by government parties and measures, but also by statistical official data and Eurostat data, which - with a small delay, as Eurostat produces statistics after a year - show that after economic growth started in Hungary in 2013, there was a reduction in the costs, tax incentives and other assistance for families started at the time, and the number of poor people decreased to a noticeable extent. [[9.40]] There is a rather complicated calculation formula for Eurostat, which examines poverty in various ways: there is work poverty, working less than 20 percent of their time; some people enter this category in other ways, obviously with low per capita income or otherwise. The total number of these, i.e. the number of people at risk of total social exclusion, the number of people living in poverty decreased by 241 thousand from 2012 to 2013. It was 241 thousand people who had come out of the difficulty of having everyday financial problems, who could now safely travel from the camp of the poor or from the camp of those at risk of poverty to the middle class. There is a reason why this 241 000-person improvement in these statistics has been made, since a wide range of government measures have been needed for all of this. There are many indicators that examine who can't do what for financial reasons. Perhaps if you look at who doesn't have a mobile phone for financial reasons, this is a ratio of around 1 per cent, so 99 per cent of people can do so, in the case of washing machine or TV, the proportion of those who say in Hungary today based on Eurostat data that they cannot afford to have a mobile phone, washing machine or TV for financial reasons. But there are other data. One of the biggest things that made the overall picture in Hungary worse earlier was that sudden expenses could not be covered. To remedy this problem, precisely the foreign exchange-credit rescue packages adopted by Parliament are one of the solutions, since for those who have not been able to cover sudden expenses due to the increased repayments of foreign currency loans - this means about HUF 60 thousand - this option is now open to reserve operations, government measures have helped them to do so. But there is also an increase in the number of people who can go on vacation. Here the previous figures have greatly improved. This was also due to the Erzsébet programme, where a quarter million people were able to leave, 250,000 people were able to travel with the support of the Erzsébet program, who could not afford to go on vacation, and perhaps they had never been on the shore of Lake Balaton in their lives. In order to improve these indicators, the government's job creation policy, whether the job protection action plan or the Start Work Programme, needed 400 thousand more people working now than four years ago. And the number of unemployed is 150,000 less. Anyone who has a job, who can earn a job - whether it is a public work income or a market job income - obviously has much more opportunities to save, obtain financial security, and avoid the risk of poverty. That is why we spend 40 billion HUF more on the Start Work Programme next year. And if we look at the Start Work Programme as part of social spending - and we can see it as an opportunity for the most deprived, who do not even have a job - then we can see that the scope of social benefits is expanding to a large extent. This is accompanied by 40 billion extra labour market contributions, coupled with training, so it also helps start workers and public workers to get through to the world of work: 30-40 thousand people from Start work to the labour market year after year, get market jobs for themselves. It is also important that what the Member mentioned is that we are spending twice as much on feeding children in the next year as he spent in the last year of socialist government governance. If someone criticizes the government in this area and looks at the numbers, perhaps these numbers - 29 billion and 58 billion - will give weight to each word. It is easy for the socialists to reason, since it was not accompanied by material sacrifice in their time, and behind the arguments of the governing parties there is a weight, and this is the budget expenditure, which gives credibility to our ideas. And the change in the social system, we hope, will make the social system more targeted. The fact that the municipalities will play a greater role in this is obviously a 30 billion plus state compensatory fund so that those who do not have enough tax power can receive support from it and pay these aids from it. This will help to ensure that officials acting in accordance with local local government regulations [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] giving these aids to those who really need them, the source of which is: [[The president's ringing again.]] The budget for the following year will be expanded accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-09-16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda: the future of our economy. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-09-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Nice figures, good numbers have come to light lately. These figures commend the country's performance. There will be a 3.2 percent increase this year, and if we add the previous year's data, the 1.8 percent increase as well as the expected conservative estimate, an economic growth of around 2.5 percent, the economic growth that we can see together will be 7.5 percent in these three years, together with the following year. Yeah, these are important numbers, and it's important what's behind these numbers. The development, which is primarily due to the development of the manufacturing industry, is a good way; the Hungarian government started on the right path in 2010, and it was a good way to invest, we lured companies who are producing - yes, to produce - not only to take out money, but also to produce value in Hungary. We can get from one to two if these companies produce value in Hungary, because this not only creates jobs, jobs from one side but not only creates jobs, but also increases the performance of the economy on the other side, increases the export of the economy, thus contributing overall to the growth of the Hungarian economy. Of course, we must mention the automotive industry, as it is the automotive industry, whose performance is very important and contributes greatly to the performance of the economy. Today, there are 700 businesses in Hungary that operate in this sector, and 125 thousand people are employed in this area. It's a good direction, and that's the way to go. If we are talking about the automotive industry, we need to remember not only the automotive industry but also other sectors. There are innovations in Hungary from Hungarian businesses that are worth taking up. It is worth taking initiatives that are either in the resuscitation of bus production or the otherwise highly traditional Hungarian bus production, and it is also worth taking up initiatives that arise in the railway industry and in the railway and rail production there, in the production of fixed track vehicles. Yes, there is also significant progress in this area, because in my constituency, Dunakeszin, the state bought a plant, the MÁV Bombardier plant. This plant is now listed as a vehicle repairer, but as a Member of Parliament, I would also like to suggest that the name refers to vehicle production here, and that we should look for a name that is worthy of the production of railway vehicles, such as the name "Kandó" - with which this factory can become the citadel of railway vehicle production, such as the production of fixed track vehicles, in Hungary. This is the way to go, and it should be noted that there has been a lot of money - a lot of money, 3400 billion forints - that has flowed to Hungary recently. This was the amount that came into Hungary in the last three quarters of the year; and this is a very talkative number, because this is more than the VAT revenue expected in Hungary next year. And when we talk about VAT, we also have to mention something very important, that there are obstacles. There are obstacles that hinder our performance, and these are usually in the past: yes, skeletons fall out of the closet. Now, in recent times, we have seen a skeleton like this once again, when a large cross-border VAT fraud has been discovered; a VAT fraud that refers back to the most corrupt period of government, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right! Moore in the benches of MSZP.]] During this period, the VAT fraud was 18-20 billion forints - in a series! - they took me out of the state register. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Pathetic! Pathetic!]] And this money must be recovered in some form. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Get it!]] The testimony of an entrepreneur in Slovakia is very talkative. This entrepreneur in Slovakia, who was otherwise involved in this VAT fraud, both in his diary and in his testimony, referred to: [[Zoltán Grimlock: This is so authentic, isn't it?]] These funds could've gotten into the MSZP's party register. [[Uproar, voices in the pro-government benches: Whoo! It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It could have been there, and even this process was designed with engineering precision. It was a process designed with engineering precision. [[Constant loud noise and interruptions in the benches of the MSZP: What about Vida Ildiko? Zoltán Lukács: Hoot a little more! Hoot, it looks so good on you. The president's ringing the bell.]] of which the design site is still in doubt [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] and suggested that this might have been designed in a dark little corner of one of the party offices for the whole VAT fraud process. [[Gábor István bellozó: Lendvay Street, isn't it?!]] We are talking about such a process, and the socialists have been involved in such a process recently. [[Zoltán Lukács: Bence, you are very tough! There's a lot of noise, interference in the benches of the MSZP.]] [[9.50]] Please, my fellow socialists. [[There's always a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] reach into their pockets [[Cries from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Lukács: Don't point! The president's ringing the bell.]] reach into their pockets by those who belong to them and pay this 20 billion forints back into the state register... [[Noise, interjections. Zoltán Lukács to the president.]]
u2014-12-09-18	Congressman...
u2014-12-09-19	...because that's what everyone misses. [[Crying out. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian children miss it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Because it's as much as it is...
u2014-12-09-20	Congressman...
u2014-12-09-21	...by the way...
u2014-12-09-22	... his time frame is over.
u2014-12-09-23	...is one third of what you took from them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying out of the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-12-09-24	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. Dear Parliament, Before you begin your response, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to listen to me in a manner worthy of the Congressman. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2014-12-09-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Crying from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik, including: What's going on? Is it written in advance? You just took notes, but it's typed! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Let's close the VAT fraud case, shall we? VAT and tax evasion are not the first things that turn out to be done, generated by socialist governments, and the Fidesz government will straighten it out and fix it. I give you three measures that are government measures. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Discuss at the group meeting at another time!]] and results in the whitening of the farm. [[It's constant noise.]] One: the introduction of online cash registers, with more than 180,000 cash registers connected to the tax administration, shows results; the issue of reverse VAT is precisely in the field of grain trade, which the European Union has allowed Hungary to do as an extraordinary. With this, this type of VAT fraud has been screened and, as of 1 January, the control of the road transport system, when a follow-up of goods entering and entering the country will be carried out, which will rule out VAT fraud in its entirety. There are several political issues, factors, and the issue of debt was brought to Hungary by the MSZP government, Fidesz had to solve it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the committee of inquiry? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The issue of foreign exchange lenders will also be settled by the current government. Honourable Congressman, I am very confident that the specific VAT fraud case you have mentioned will be fully revealed, found out who caused it, and will receive their worthy punishment, and that these stolen tax revenues will be returned to the budget register. As regards the other substantial part of his speech, it is the performance of the Hungarian economy. Hungarian economic growth is also outstanding in Europe, with 3.2 percent in the first three in the European Union. Indeed, it is worth looking beyond performance how Hungary has been able to deliver two and a half times as much performance as, say, the average of the European Union in the 2014 marketing year. I think it is worth raising the issue of industrial production, and it should be analysed not only at expert level, but also at political level, what industrial production means to Hungary today, and in particular vehicle production. Industrial production has been growing steadily since 2010: from 2010 to 13, it has increased significantly by around 20% and in 2014 by 11.1 percent, based on data so far; every month it has increased significantly. [[It's constant noise.]] Hungary is able to deliver outstanding results on the issue of vehicle manufacturing, since 2013 [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was a turn of growth, and in essence Hungary became a regional centre, as Hungary has not only performed outstandingly in assembly but also in the production of automotive parts. In 2012, vehicle production increased by 7.8 percent, almost three times a year later, by 19 percent. In principle, foreign market sales, i.e. export sales, are pulling performance, but domestic sales have also increased significantly by about 48 percent. In recent years, four automotive companies were established in Hungary, Audi, Mercedes, Opel and Suzuki, in 2013 these companies provided 17 400 jobs for employees creating more than 2,000 new jobs. [[It's constant noise. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Can't hear you. The president's ringing the bell.]] They work for 229 Hungarian suppliers and maintain six upper and seven secondary education institutions. In essence, Hungary has become one of the centres of motor vehicle production in Europe, as it has the largest role behind Slovakia and the Czech Republic in the European Union. We can produce some 400 thousand units in total by 2014, which represents an increase of about 20 percent. Hungary has and will have a decisive role in the production of vehicles in the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2014-12-09-26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. [[Noise.]] Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, A decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2013. The independent motion of the Committee on Culture was submitted by H/1947. was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth discussion has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/1947 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution 114 yes, 59 votes against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law amending law to enforce the sustainability aspects of the authorisation of certain commercial structures and a final vote. The submission was made in T/1995. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1995/9. T/1995/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. According to Section 4 of the LMP, the leader of the LMP Group is T/1995/4. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. T/1995/4. Amendment No 3 on the motion of Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal at the request of the LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article, the head of the LMP Group shall be T/1995/4. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. T/1995/4. Amendment No 3 on the motion of Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal at the request of the LMP. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes to 117, with 30 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1995/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summation amendment by 122 yeses, 53 votes against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1995/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 39 with 21 abstentions. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. Final vote of the bill amending the law on the functioning of undertakings in order to ensure fair market conduct. The submission was made in T/2086. was given to them. As the Commission's proposal for an amendment to close the detailed debate has not been submitted to the bill and the legislative committee's meeting has not been initiated, we will decide on the legislative proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2086 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 116 votes in favour, 34 against and 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law on its central budget for 2015. The submission was made in T/1794. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1794/557. T/1794/558. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would remind you that, at last week's meeting, we decided, by way of derogation from house rules, that the leader of any political group should be no more than ten, the resolution house rule is 48. It may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. The leaders of the opposition groups made use of the possibility of requesting a reservation of the amendments. These will be decided by groups of representatives in ascending order according to the number of the amendments. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on reservations tabled by the MSZP Group. T/1794/20. In Amendment 3, we decide on the motion of Zoltán Gőgös and others. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. T/1794/22. We are voting on the motion by Zoltán Gőgös and Attila Mesterházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. T/1794/24. The amendment tabled by Anita Heringes and Dezső Liberty. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 112 against and 20 abstentions. T/1794/64. I put to the vote the motion of Mr Demeter and Mr Attila Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 115 against and 5 abstentions. T/1794/69. Mr Teleki's proposal for an amendment was adopted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 135 votes against and no abstentions. T/1794/413. We are voting on the motion by József Tobias and others. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. T/1794/414. The amendment proposed by József Tobias and others follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. T/1794/421. István Hiller and others put to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstention. T/1794/422. István Hiller and others are invited to propose amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 116 against and 20 abstentions. T/1794/423. We are voting on Nándor Gúr's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Jobbik Group. T/1794/14. Amendment 3 to the amendment tabled by Tamás Sneider. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 120 against and 5 abstentions. T/1794/35. I put to the vote the motion of Adam Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 117 against and 7 abstentions. T/1794/114. In the amendment tabled by Mr Carpát, we are deciding on Daniel's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 118 against and six abstentions. T/1794/201. We are voting on the motion by György Szilágyi and others. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 117 against and 5 abstentions. T/1794/223. The amendment proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and others follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 117 against and 5 abstentions. T/1794/279. I put to the vote the motion of Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 118 against and four abstentions. T/1794/284. We are voting on the motion by Dóra Dúró and others. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 20 votes in favour, 117 against and 40 abstentions. T/1794/302. In the amendment tabled by Tamás Sneider and others, we are deciding on the motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 118 against and six abstentions. T/1794/30. Amendment 3 to the amendment tabled by Tamás Sneider and others. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 117 against and 5 abstentions. [[10.10]] T/1794/345. István Szávay's motion to vote in amendment no. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes to 117, with 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the LMP Group. T/1794/458. We are voting on András Schiffer and others' motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes, 115 votes and no abstentions. T/1794/489. The amendment proposed by Mr Schiffer and other Members follows a separate proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes, 114 votes and no abstentions. T/1794/497. I put to the vote the motion of Mr Bernadett Szél and other Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes, 114 votes and no abstentions. T/1794/506. Mr Bernadett Szél and other Members were invited to make a decision on this amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes, 114 votes and no abstentions. T/1794/507. We are voting on the motion of András Schiffer and other Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes, 115 votes and no abstentions. T/1794/508. Amendment 3 to the amendment tabled by Bernadett Szél and other Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes to 115, with 28 abstentions. T/1794/510. I put to the vote the motion of Mr Bernadett Szél and other Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes, 115 votes and no abstentions. T/1794/514. In the amendment tabled by Mr Schiffer, Mr András and other Members, we are deciding on the motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes, 116 votes and no abstentions. T/1794/517. We are voting on the motion of András Schiffer and other Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes to 116, with 28 abstentions. T/1794/523. The amendment tabled by András Schiffer and other Members follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes to 115, with 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/1794/557. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment 116 yes, 40 no against and 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/1794/561. It shall send to the President of the Fiscal Council a single draft budget bill. The Council shall inform the President of the Parliament within three days of the adoption of Article 25 of the Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote is expected to take place next week at our meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law on insurance and insurance. The submission is T/1760. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1760/6. T/1760/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, As the leaders of the political groups have not put forward a request for reservations or a separate vote, we are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1760/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 148 votes to four, with 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1760/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single amendment proposal by 147 votes to four, with 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that we had a debate on yesterday's meeting. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/1559, by András Schiffer, LMP, Member, on the amendment of certain laws to transform the rules on the declaration of assets of politicians exercising public authority and public money farmers. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill in the series 59 yes, 115 votes against, with two abstentions. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] Dear Parliament, I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by András Schiffer, MEP LMP, on the publicity of economic interest and on anti-corruption amendments to certain laws, T/1793. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill in a series of 60 yes, 115 votes against, with one abstention. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. We are now continuing our work with second-reading debates. Before that, I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your work. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members in this Chamber to take their seats. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposal on the amendment of certain laws relating to the status of military defenders and war care follow up. The submission is T/2084. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Defence Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2084. Number [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , 2084/11. No. 2084/12. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2084/14. T/2084/15. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-12-09-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 4 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2084 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the status of military defenders and war care. Bill No. 1. First of all, this proposal was submitted with the aim of increasing the rate of regular monthly allowance for war widows by 50 percent in the 1994 Military Care Act. The proposal also amends the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and on measures that can be implemented in a special legal order. The main reason for this is that changes in the environment of foreign and security policy make it necessary, on certain occasions, to temporarily change the organisation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in individual crisis situations depending on the nature of the crisis. To this end, the Minister should have the power to decide on the establishment of organisational elements adapted to that function, in order to take and support mainly central administrative or operational management decisions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment of the Defence Committee, which was unanimously supported by our committee. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to further amend the legislation, which was supported with 23 yes and three abstentions. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 23 yes and 3 abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-09-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2014-12-09-29	[[His mic's not ringing.]] I plugged it in, Mr. President, but I can't see myself on the board. [[Defiance.]]
u2014-12-09-30	Congressman, you probably didn't place your card or move. Be nice to check again.
u2014-12-09-31	I would like to make a historic speech, but I do not know.
u2014-12-09-32	Please help the congressman, I need a microphone.
u2014-12-09-33	Thank you very much. Thank you, it's working now. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not take the seven minutes, since the committee was about the counter-arguments that were made here in Parliament. The counter-argument did not, of course, concern an increase in the widow's allowances, but we also missed it at the committee meeting, and the opposition missed that, for example, this amount would not be raised in the case of war orphans, which is much lower than in the case of war widows. Raising this amount from 30 percent to 50 percent for war orphans would mean just over HUF 4,000 per month. I think we should have touched the area if we could have brought about satisfactory and complete regulation, and we could at least raise the money and benefits of each of the groups concerned by a little bit. Of course, we are pleased, as I said, that this will happen in the case of war widows, but it is unfair, for example, to war orphans. The fact that foreign citizens can participate in the training of officers in Hungary has also been mentioned at the committee meeting, whether this is a problem, a security risk or why it has to be introduced now. This or the questions raised by the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Defence was only partially satisfactory, but I would not repeat what was said in the general debate before the House. I see you're taking notes, Minister, and I think you'll respond to these questions. That is about all I can summarise, Mr President, what was said in the committee as a minority opinion. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-09-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Csaba Hende, Minister of Defence, if you would like to speak now. [[Csaba Hende: Not now.]] The Minister indicated that he would like to speak later. Dear Parliament, The designated Defence Committee does not wish to present a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr Demeter, Ms Márta, MSZP Group, will be the first to speak.
u2014-12-09-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The bill, which lies before us and on which we are talking about its amendments, I would like to highlight one positive point here at the beginning, because an extremely important element of this proposal is the increase in the monthly regular allowance for war widows. The current benefit is 75 per cent of the minimum old-age pension at any time, and the proposal increases it to 112.5 per cent. This is, by the way, very appropriate and welcome in the proposal. [[10.30]] We have tabled several amendments. I would like to give you a brief description of these. The Defence Act would have made a significant change that, in order to increase the efficiency of decision preparation processes during the crisis management period, the Minister of Defence could decide on the temporary operation of certain organisational elements of the management system applicable during the special legal order period. This was included in the bill, and we tabled a proposal to amend it with my colleague Tamás Harangozó. The reason for this was that neither the Fundamental Law nor the Defence Act defined the concept of a crisis management period, and therefore this amendment would not have met the constitutional requirement of norm. We further missed this passage that the powers of the Minister of Defence were not precisely defined during this period. However, this passage would have been authorised because it stated that, at the time of crisis management, certain organisational elements of the management system applicable to defence organisations in the special legal order period could be operated temporarily in order to improve the efficiency of the decision preparation process. I am very pleased that the committees supported this amending proposal, and I think that if the Government has the intention to make the operation of the defence more effective, then I think that the opposition parties, including the MSZP, have been partners in the actual dialogue, how this can happen. I believe that this will continue to be the case in the future. I would like to point out from the bill that it amends the law on the status of civil servants and excludes, in the case of civil servants working in the Hungarian Defence Office, the application of the guarantee rule that the employee may be employed for a maximum of 44 days per year in a job other than the employment contract. The Parties may derogate from this guarantee rule on the basis of written agreement. We did not agree with this passage of the law, and therefore we have also tabled an amendment to this, taking into account the vulnerable situation of workers. We believe that the provision of the written agreement itself is not a valid guarantee. So far, it has been possible to work for 44 days in this way; at the committee meeting, we had a few words with Minister, and he explained that this was primarily due to practices, so that it could be extended beyond these 44 days. We believe that there have been practices in the Hungarian Defence Service so far, of course, if there was money, I think that in the future this will be an improved trend, and so far the practices have not been any problem. Unfortunately, by the way, we have not been supported by this amendment to keep us at 44 days. I would like to point out that, although it is welcome to increase the allowance for widows of war, we cannot leave without saying that the amount of the allowance is unacceptable because since 2008, the minimum amount of the old-age pension has not increased by a penny, which is currently only HUF 28 500. And although the government has been saying for years that Hungary is doing better, the small pensioners and the most fallen are unfortunately not experiencing any of this, and we can also conclude from the proposal that the government does not intend to increase the minimum amount of the old-age pension at all. Rather, it increases the multipliers of the benefits linked to it in cases where the shockingly low rate is considered to be politically unsuitable. And, well, the government has been promising to introduce a career model for years, and they've been saying for months that the career model is about to be completed. This is what we would like to see, and it is disappointing that we are not looking at the amendment of the law that underpins the promised salary development, but only the whittling of the current regulation. However, I would like to point out here that, in our hope, it will be achieved that, from the middle of next year, the professional staff of the armed forces will receive 30 percent wage development, otherwise it will be eligible in any way. I would like to point out - because you have already looked at me, I think you have this in mind, but I would also like to point out - that we should also think of the defence workers, who still have a salary of HUF 38 650 - and all of them - they will not be affected by this increase. But I do hope so, and I trust that the government will think about it in the future. I would like to point out here that this would only allow for the amendment of the law, but it does not require compulsory remuneration if the journey or part of it is out of service during domestic missions. We have also tabled an amendment to this with my fellow Member. In such a case, we believe that a member of the staff could be entitled to a remuneration of the amount laid down in the Ministerial Decree, so that this situation could be resolved whether there is a remuneration or not. We find it unacceptable to maintain and strengthen the regulation that a voluntary reserve soldier who has received effective service is obliged to perform effective service without remuneration for 60 days per year. In this respect, we have tabled an amendment, since currently those who are entitled to service are entitled only to the difference between the salary due to the voluntary reserve soldiers and the remuneration for their service in the case of service over 60 days. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting. On the one hand, our problem is that if this service was to exceed 60 days, we believe that these soldiers would be entitled to the salary of the voluntary reserve soldiers, even if this were to exceed the amount of service allowances. And by the way, the basic problem of this whole thing is that there is such a rule at all. The basic problem is that people who have taken their lives to serve their country have been deprived of their retirement status, the problem is that they have turned this care into a liability, even with a deduction equal to the level of single-key personal income tax, so they have not even been taxed, but have been subjected to a deduction equal to their rate, which, in fact, is a disadvantage for them here as well as for the tax rules. He said, Minister, that it was an optional thing to go to a volunteer reserveer and that it was an incentive system. Well, that could be as stimulating as private pension funds when they threatened the members that otherwise they wouldn't have a pension if they didn't go into the state system. That 16 percent does matter a lot here, and I think that it should have been entrusted to those who have served their country their whole lives to do such a service, by the way. There is no need for such incentives, I feel more like blackmail, Minister, I know that we do not agree. I think it's blackmail, not incentive. So very quickly, I would like to point out that we would expect the military career model to actually be seen. To increase the allowance for widows of war, we find it very commendable. We consider the summary amendment to be absolutely eligible. I think that because this law has caused a lot of anomalies, caused by the government itself in the previous cycle, and put people who serve their country in an impossible position, they will not be modified by this bill, so we will not be able to support it with a good heart. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-12-09-36	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to independent Congressman Péter Kónya in a two-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-09-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was very pleased to hear Minister yesterday's speech, where he said how effectively they acted against corruption in the Hungarian Defence Office, and he also said in his speech this morning how good the soldiers were in Hungary. [[10.40]] I was confident that this amendment would provide an answer to why the Ministry of Defence had to be recharged under your leadership with women incompetent with the Hungarian Defence Service, but pretty, miniskirts, and I also hoped that this amendment would explain why a general should be appointed, say, to the head of a class of five. However, this amendment of the law is also a clear proof that you are doing enough problematic professional work. I would like to give you a specific example - it looks like the child is being poured out together with the bath water - because this amendment of the law regulates how the term referring to qualifications can be used between the name and rank in the future, and it forbids in Hungarian, so the term previously used, such as the term "engineer colonel" will not be allowed in the future. This would not be a problem, but it is not only about the use of terms referring to qualifications, but also terms referring to positions, I would refer to the fact that, for example, it is not a term referring to qualifications in the case of war judges or even doctors, but rather a term referring to positions. The amendment of the law does not treat it, but treats it in the same way as the graduates, forbids doctors in Hungarian, but also the judges in the future to use Colonel X.Y., or Colonel X.Y. Doctor. Besides, I will eagerly look forward to your presentation on the new career model for law enforcement and military career models. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I may be able to speak more in detail there, because I had two minutes here. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-12-09-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Kulcsár has applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-09-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I will be brief, I will not take advantage of the time frame at my disposal, because in the general debate we have given our criticisms in detail, and it has also been said that we can support the whole bill largely and entirely. Raising the allowance for widows of war is an important issue, and we agree with that, of course. However, we regret that our amendments were not supported. Gábor Staudt spoke to me about the proposal for war orphans, and mentioned the part about the public service university that we wanted to remove from the bill. We do not consider it appropriate to open the possibility for foreigners to take part in the training of military officers. We consider the proposed amendment to be good, and we can also support it; and, on balance, even though it has not been supported, it has not been adopted, the bill will be supported by Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-09-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am pleased that more people have supported the bill as a whole and its important details. I think it is natural that there is a political or professional difference between the opposition and the ruling parties on other issues. This can be considered completely normal within the framework of a multi-party democracy. I would like to point out that the defence wallet, which has left behind us for more than four years, almost without exception, has passed through its legislation and laws prepared for a high level of professionalism without any accepted amendment - and therefore I am grateful to all Members of Parliament afterwards - of course, on any matter that raises the question of a lack of trust or a reduction in it between the various sides of the House, will back down as politely as possible and offer the opportunity of professional consultation and consensus. Allow me to address the most important issue. Of course, everything is important in this bill, since it is only important matters in the field of legislation, but there is one issue that is the subject of the Commission's amendment, and this is the regulation on crisis management. Briefly about the planned regulation. One of the main tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces is that it should never be used, so that prevention is the most important role; if it is, then primarily, that the activities of the Hungarian Defence Forces affect the daily lives of citizens in the minimum possible measure. In the present case, the aim is not yet to be established, in the event of a conflict where the tension of the international situation requires but cannot yet be declared a qualified situation, the defence can be prepared in an accelerated manner, with as little bureaucratic obstacles as possible, and on the road. However, this facilitation - which was the aim of the original text of the bill - concerned only the preparation of decisions; it was not a simplified right to decide; there are constitutional guarantees which are inviolable and which are based on the then amendments to the new law on defence, the new law on defence and the Constitution, which are based on consensus at the time of the first democratic government, in the period 1990-1994. Maintaining this consensus is an important value, which, even in the event of misunderstandings, forces the Ministry of Defence to illuminate it, to revise it more thoroughly and to bring the rules that are otherwise necessary to protect its country in an acceptable form. Thus, in this original proposal, according to constitutional considerations, the functioning of the country and the public administration would have remained unchanged, the powers of decision would have remained in the Fundamental Law and in the Defence Act for a period of peace. The decisions thus taken, the decisions made on the basis of the amendment, would apply only in relation to the Hungarian Defence Forces and within the framework of the tasks defined by the Hungarian Defence Act. However, all guarantee elements and the constitutional requirements of civilian governance remain unchanged. Once again on the key elements of the deleted proposal: that is to say, only in a crisis situation, with purpose, when it is not yet necessary to introduce a special legal order that partly affects or alters the lives of citizens, it would only be possible to use the new crisis regulation temporarily and only to speed up the preparation of decisions. Thus, neither arbitrary nor illegal or illegal decision-making can arise. The essence of crisis management is precisely that this is not a special legal order, for example due to the established situation in Ukraine or the Ebola epidemic, it is not necessary to declare a special legal order, to frustrate the population, it is not necessary to introduce a special regulation affecting Hungarian citizens in their daily lives, but it is also appropriate to establish a basis for a flexible response. It considers crisis management - and I would now quote a NATO standard, a NATO document - to be a fundamental security task for NATO, which includes the possibility of military and non-military measures to counter the threat in order to preserve or restore international peace and security. In the interpretation of NATO, the crisis can be political, military or humanitarian, and may be due to political or armed conflict, industrial or natural disaster. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's what we're talking about. We must prepare ourselves for these situations as life and history have brought it before us. [[10.50]] If I may continue: In November 2014, the Hungarian Military Committee for Standardization and the Doctrinal Committee also adopted a definition of the crisis, which sounds like: "The crisis is a situation that threatens the security, interests or international peace, stability and which requires decision-making or active action. Crisis situations are created by increasing tensions by means that remain below the level of war. So that is the technical justification for the proposal that has been accepted from the opposition side with some incomprehensibility. We understand that, so we offer the opportunity for professional consultation and for us to return to this problem in the best possible time. However, I should like to thank the opposition representatives for their thorough consideration and analysis of our proposal. I trust that, with the support of the government as a Commission amendment to their amendment, the furthest sign or spark of mistrust has disappeared, and that they are ready for further discussions, as the Member said. Regarding further speeches: I do not necessarily want to respond to Péter Kónya's funny speech. The Ministry of Defence has 511 employees, partly soldiers, partly government officials. Clothing standards are consistent with the stress of the government as a whole. And the aesthetic satisfaction of colleagues in Péter Kónya's delicate taste fills me with joy. With regard to the career model and the salary increase, I would also like to draw the attention of the fellow Members to their kindness in studying the budget law. The 11 billion forints, the salary increase that will take place from 1 July, next summer, will be 30 percent in terms of salary, i.e. an average increase in the salary of soldiers, is included in the budget law. Don't try to pretend it's an uncertain question, which will be or won't be, who knows how. There will be a salary increase, the legal guarantees are available, the government has made the necessary decisions, and everything is currently being translated into the language of regulation. So calm down, the Orbán government will raise the salary of the soldiers by 30 percent next year, and then by 1 January of 2016-17-18-19 the Orbán government will increase the salary of the soldiers by 5-5 percent, thus making a total increase of 50 percent, roughly the same size as in 2002; the Orbán government has still carried out such a military salary increase. It pains me that during your eight-year governance, there was no possibility, no possibility, or intention, of a similar degree of improvement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-42	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place at our meeting next week. Dear Parliament, Following up on the 1995 CXXV on National Security Services and the debate on the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws in the context of national security control and the summary amendment proposal. The submission is T/2077. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the National Security Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2077/27. and T/2077/28. was given to them. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/2077/30. and the summary report is T/2077/31. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-09-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/2077 on 4 December 2014. CXXV of 1995 on National Security Services A bill amending certain laws in the context of national security control has been submitted by the Committee with 26 yes and four abstentions, i.e. an amendment and a summary report without voting against. The summarised amendment contains the 11-point amendment proposed by the National Security Committee. Before the Legislative Committee, Members reported that five-party discussions had taken place before the amendment was tabled, resulting in all the factions having considered the motion tabled as forward-looking. Although the Law on the need to amend certain laws in order to establish new rules for national security control was adopted in the previous cycle, the Constitutional Court considered two elements of the new system of national security control, the continuous national security control and the absence of an external remedy, i.e. an independent of the government, to be contrary to the Fundamental Law, and annulled these main sections. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The Ministry of Interior submitted the new comprehensive amendment in order to eliminate the situation of incoherence. Following a five-party consultation, as I mentioned, the National Security Committee proposed a fine-tuning of the proposal, which was supported by the Legislative Committee. In the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, allow my fellow Members to draw attention to the part of the amending proposal which opens the way for the judicial procedure in the case of national security checks on persons already with legal status. The amending proposal provides for the possibility for persons whose legal relationship is terminated on the basis of a security opinion establishing a risk to national security to initiate a judicial review of the National Security Committee's decision to reject a complaint. According to the amending proposal, the court is obliged to examine the framework of the procedure on which the safety opinion was issued. Another important element of the amendments is related to the National Security Service as a service organisation. The basic task of the specialist service is to provide services to bodies authorised to collect classified information or to obtain classified information. With this amendment, as part of this activity, you could provide customers with the possibility that, in the event of such a request, their data request and access mechanism would only be faster and more precise by indicating the data controller body, without providing any personal data. I believe that the latter, with a data protection limit and the right to the remedy described earlier, can adopt a bill that upholds the requirement of constitutionality, while at the same time ensuring the security of our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-44	Thank you very much. Welcome. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak now. [[Károly Kontra: No, thank you.]] He won't say anything. In that case, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz. Here you go. [[11.00]]
u2014-12-09-45	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity, and I would like to briefly speak about the amendment of the law on national security services. I will basically praise the bill and the method it has been brought before the committees and the Parliament, because the law on national security services and its amendment are a good law and a good amendment if it is surrounded by consensus, because I think that a good law is in the interest of all parties, since it promotes the security of the country in the first place. That is why I welcome the fact that on the initiative of the Ministry of Interior there has been a five-party consultation on this proposal, and this is clearly a professionally good bill, a good amendment, and a professionally excellent proposal. I also consider it important that a number of opposition amendment proposals have been accepted or heard by the author, such as the issue of redress. Obviously, the adoption of the draft legislation aims at making national security control more effective. I would like to highlight one point from the bill, which I think is particularly important today: the draft law extends national security control to members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I call on my fellow Members to support this amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-46	Thank you very much. As a normal word applicant, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have agreed on a proposal in a five-party debate that is particularly important on the basis of the country's views, but I think it is important to say that in recent years there have been a lot of proposals that should have been discussed in a similar way, since it would have been important for the opposition to be consulted. I think it would have been harmonious to cooperate on a number of issues if a little consideration had been given to what the opposition was saying, and perhaps better laws could have been made. In any event, it is to be welcomed that there has been consultation with the opposition on this law, and it is also to be welcomed that it has been considered and indeed the Legislative Committee has taken over the provisions of the Commission's proposal to amend the National Security Committee's in-depth debate, so that a number of opposition points are included in the proposal that we consider important. One of the most important things was the opening of a judicial procedure for national security checks on persons already with a legal relationship. At the same time, I think it is important to say what is left out of this bill. It is well known that the May Other Politics has stood up to be an obligation to contribute to those who are involved in a scandal similar to the ban on entry and have a high responsibility in this country. What we wanted was for these people to appear before the National Security Committee. We find it untenable that the National Security Committee is not in a position to effectively exercise its control activities in matters of key national security interests and to require public officials involved in the matter to appear in person before the Committee. We think that this is an important step that needs to be taken, and I think that we will make a big step forward if we can codify this in the law. It is part of this whole matter - a matter of approach, but perhaps we can agree - that it is always the responsibility of the legislator to create a regulation that adequately protects personal data and the private sector. My fellow Member has already said that the 2013 Law, which was annulled by the Constitutional Court, has brutally opposed this thinking. Now that this is corrected for a second run, and to an acceptable extent, it is important, and in fact, there was no very different opportunity for the government, but I would add that this does not give an exemption from doing so in other cases. Two thirds are constantly overextending when it comes to personal data. On a daily basis, we are also hearing new ideas that foresee trying to infiltrate people's privacy in an unacceptable way. I think this is one of those points where you have to face yourself and consider that there is a level that you cannot pass, and no one else can. So I think it is also important for us to remember, in this law, that all the disproportionate restrictions of law have to be corrected - in order to remain on the subject now - which has been introduced under the mask of national security in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of the TEK's secret monitoring rules, here too - like the law we are discussing here - of effective external control; I am also thinking of observations, which, unlike police law, are not linked to facts. So I think there's something more to correct for the Ministry of Interior when it comes to the protection of personal data. In any case, it is important that we have now succeeded in removing from this law the most serious restrictive and infringement measures that the Constitutional Court has considered to be such, but I would consider it important that there should be a consultation with opposition factions on such priority matters, so to speak, on such red-letter holidays, but that Fidesz learns that legislation works effectively when we take into account each other's views. In addition, I stand once again that the May Other is the proposed amendment to the Politics, and I think it would be a significant qualitative leap in this law. The recent period was specifically about the fact that the National Security Committee was unable to act effectively in certain situations. I think that we should be prepared for the following cases, and that the committee should be prepared to be able to put an end to the sentence as quickly as possible if this happens. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been included in the bill, and I continue to see this as a lack. Thank you.
u2014-12-09-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now it's time for Congressman Zsolt Molnár, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! This law is a significant step forward compared to a year and a half ago. It is a bit regrettable that the Constitutional Court's opinion has contributed to this, but I say that it is now eligible, because on the most important issue of the rule of law, namely the opening of a judicial road in the field of national security control, it tells us that the Ministry of Interior and the party factions have accepted our proposal to open a judicial review, and this undoubtedly means that it meets the most important criterion, it is also forward-looking in many other details. There are basically minor shortcomings in the law, but they may be able to be corrected in practice, and it is possible that later, for minor amendments, it will encourage the legislator to correct life. One thing must therefore be said for the sake of the facts: the five-party consultation - and I must argue with my fellow Member, Mr Nitrai - was initiated by left-wing socialist representatives. We thank the Ministry of the Interior for making it possible, but basically, the proposal came from here, so we suggested that there should be such an initiative or such a five-party agreement, which has really brought a lot of forward-looking results. This law now corresponds in this form to what such a law should be able to achieve within the framework of a rule of law; it is regrettable, I say, that this required so much time and the procedure of the Constitutional Court. I am saying, however, that opening up the judicial path, defining national security risks are all forward-looking initiatives that show that this law can fulfil the objective that must be fulfilled in a rule of law. Of course, there will be questions on which we have drawn attention, and life will decide whether it will be possible to change those details later. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-12-09-50	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the time frame available. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Mr Károly Kontra has the floor. Here.
u2014-12-09-51	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to recall here to this House my contribution to the conclusion of the general debate on the bill, in which I said that I had promised that all amendments would be examined. I did not specify that the framework of this will be a five-party agreement, but I believe that the result led to by the five-party hearing held on 1 December, and the agreement reached there certainly contributed to this law being a good law, serving Hungary's security interests, the objectives that the legislator set out in the submission of the bill. [[11.10]] Allow me to thank you, too, for submitting the amendments. As has been said in this debate, we have supported several proposals for amendments to the opposition and, finally, a consensual Commission amendment; my colleague Sándor Hadházy presented the opinion of the Legislative Committee. Thank you for the committee's work, which has also contributed to the creation of a good law, so it became part of the proposal, and the establishment of a legal institution for the review procedure meets all the requirements of the Constitutional Court's decision. The other regulatory element, the redress system, which the Constitutional Court objects to, is also changing on the basis of the bill. On the one hand, the bill restores the role of the National Security Committee as an independent body of the government and ensures the use of the judicial procedure in a specific context. The provision defining the safety risks has been clarified and it is noted that the National Security Committee, acting under its appeal, may consult the national security control documents. I believe that this has also become a very important guarantee element of the proposal. In addition to the National Security Services Act, the bill also proposes to extend the obligation of national security control to members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Returning to the regulatory solution before 2013, the bill empowers ministers to define the positions under national security control for the bodies under their leadership and control. Dear Parliament, I would also like to respond to Mr Bernadett's comment. On the one hand, in the general debate, I responded to the fact that there should be a statement in this regard, and the other proposal does not fall within the scope of this law. In the event of the adoption of this bill, a law may be adopted to help improve the effectiveness of national security control, comply with constitutional requirements and regulate the legal institution in a coherent manner. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament once again to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place next week. Dear Parliament, The entry and residence of third-country nationals in 2007 will be followed by Annex II on entry and residence of third-country nationals. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the proposal for an amendment. Antal Rogán, Bence Tuzson, Péter Csizi, Fidesz, Members' single motion T/1168. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee's proposal, which closed the detailed discussion, is the T/1168/4 report and the T/1168/5 report. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1168/7. and the summary report is T/1168/8. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/1168 on 4 December 2014. II of 2007 on the entry and residence of third-country nationals The Committee presented a bill amending the Act and a draft amendment and a summary report with 16 yes and 7 non-voting votes. With effect from 28 December 2012, the institution of the residence permit for national economy and the establishment permit issued for that purpose were introduced at the statutory level. The experience gained over the period thereafter calls for the changes set out in the proposed legislation. Accordingly, if the motion is adopted, the cases of withdrawal of approval will be clarified and the proposal provides for the obligation to notify the Permanent Committee of Parliament responsible for economic matters. In the case of nationals coming from third countries who have had residence permits and purchase government bonds for at least six months immediately prior to the application for establishment, the bond registration deadline is not laid down in law. It is appropriate to supplement these shortcomings. The investor settlement programme is by far the most competitive of the programmes of the Member States of the European Union, so it is not a problem and it is justified to increase the nominal value of the government bond on the condition of establishment to EUR 250 thousand to EUR 300 thousand, thereby increasing the revenue of public finances. Under the proposal submitted, the residence permit may be revoked by the foreign police authority if the third-country national has left the territory of Hungary for a period of more than six months, unless it has been specifically authorised or withdrawn even if the 45-day period for the registration of the sovereign debt has not been complied with. This is when the purpose of establishment, the interest of the national economy, is not realized. The summarised amendment proposal, which is actually the legislative committee's own amendment proposal, clarifies the procedural and deposit rules on the one hand and lays down transitional provisions and implements technical amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[For signal:]] No. In this case, we will continue our work, as the designated Economic Committee does not wish to present a rapporteur, with speeches from its representatives. The first speakers to be announced will be Mr Pál Völner, Mr Fidesz, first of all. Here.
u2014-12-09-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the introduction of the legal institution of investor establishment, there has been a steady increase in interest in this possibility. The Hungarian investor settlement programme is by far the most competitive of the programmes of the Member States of the European Union, so it is justified to increase the nominal value of the government bond on the condition of establishment to EUR 250 thousand to EUR 300 thousand. Even so, the domestic programme remains one of the most competitive in Europe at comparative prices. According to the State Debt Manager's data, the first set of settlement bonds was issued in the summer of 2013, last year the ÁKK sold 430 Hungarian settlement bonds to the intermediary companies until the end of August 672 settlement bonds. However, in the second half of the year there is a significant recovery in demand for settlement bonds. The investor settlement programme not only results in significant capital inflows, but foreign businessmen established in our country are also expected to make additional investments here. I therefore request your support for this proposal in the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-56	Thank you very much. Now, Congressman Csaba Tóth, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-09-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals actually contains only technical amendments, as has been said at the committee meeting and in the preliminary debates, but in fact it still does not resolve the most important issue. It has just been said here that the settlement policy is issued by the Government Debt Management Centre and is to be recorded through it. The problem is with the intermediary companies through which this happens. Anyone who wishes to register a settlement policy must contact a brokerage company. The intermediary companies are registered by the Economic Commission and these companies are entitled to register or sell these bonds. If we look at these companies, we see that almost without exception offshore companies - companies registered in Malta, Singapore, the Cayman Islands, Cyprus. [[11.20]] The real business - in addition to the fact that it is good for the Hungarian national economy not to issue a separate bond next year, as has been said, but to finance it - is in the role of these intermediary companies. These companies receive these bonds at discount rates. The EUR 250 000 bond will be paid at a discount price of EUR 220-225 thousand, so it will be paid at a reduced rate of interest and then sold together with the commission of those who wish to settle. Each such brokerage commission shall be EUR 40-45 thousand for each bond. This means that this contributing company will receive a fee of EUR 60-70-75 thousand for a single establishment. A recent interview of the CEO of the company who is currently the largest in this market was published on an Internet portal. They dealt with the Chinese and Vietnamese markets and said that 2,200 such bonds and settlement securities have been sold in recent years, of which only 1,800 in 2014. If we calculate the benefits of these, we will see interesting figures, because this means that if his commission per bond of EUR 60-70 thousand and the profit on this sale is about HUF 20 million. If we count 2200 times 20 million, we had about 40 billion forints in commission, which this offshore company has pocketed in connection with the bond sales. Although the CEO of this company told us that we do not think that this is such a huge revenue for them, because we need to promote and promote business in the countries, this has a significant cost, and this goes this way. So our problem, after all, with this amendment of the law, is that you are not dealing with it. We do not understand why Hungarian companies do not issue the bond, since it has such a large business and such a commission behind it, why Hungarian companies do not participate in the involvement of these funds. We do not understand why offshore companies are naturally needed. One more question arises: if the value of the settlement policy is raised from 250 thousand to 300 thousand euros, how much will the commission of these companies increase? 'Cause if you've made so much money on it, it's gonna get even bigger, I'm sure. And it is linked to this that, once it is sold with such a commission, why does not this commission land in the pocket of the Hungarian State, this revenue. I'm sure it could be used for much better purposes. So until this is resolved, we cannot support this amendment in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-09-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, here.
u2014-12-09-59	Mr President, Dear House, We have had vain hopes that, after the general debate, some doubts will be resolved or even eliminated from the pro-government side, but we still do not get answers to such fundamental questions, which are cutting-edge and cutting-edge, which, without answering them, could not be well supported by a similar proposal. The government's efforts to increase the revenue side of the budget and obviously expects ten billion-dollar revenues from the sale of settlement bonds are clearly visible. It would be possible to negotiate such a proposal in substance, because it cannot be so, in my view, if we knew who had come to Hungary to sell settlement bonds; for what purpose they had come to Hungary; for what kind of sector their activities have created; for what sectors, therefore, how many Hungarian jobs have been lost; for how many Hungarian suppliers have been destroyed. Therefore, if we met at least the minimum of impact assessments, we could assess the results, the multiplier effect of the process of the government selling the possibility of establishment in Hungary for money, whether in the form of a bond or in a different way. It can be seen, therefore, that since the government does not care about the number of Hungarian jobs at risk either in its presentation or in its justifications, how many jobs have been created in Hungary, so what kind of balance do we have in terms of the programme, we can see again that, as in the case of other new types of tax - more than ten types of tax increase in 2015 - we can see a revenue recovery process here as well. Thus, the increase from 250,000 to 300,000 is clearly an increase in revenue expectations, but the spill-over effects seem to be ignored by the government. However, it is, or may be, a step in the fight against sovereign debt, according to an amazing justification. There's only one quote about this fight that tells us everything. According to the 2010 data of the Government Debt Management Centre, which was raised here and is concerned, the debt ratio was 20 041 billion, according to the latest data published by the Hungarian National Bank, now 25 432. The difference, the gap is roaring and gaping, so the fight against sovereign debt, despite all kinds of sweaty government communication, has been a complete failure so far. Neither the sweeping of private pension funds nor the amendments to this proposal before us are able, let alone, to reduce public debt or to stop its increase. You can see, therefore, that what lies before us is not a package of proposals with well-thought-out, impact-based, well-thought-out amendments, from which, let us say, Hungarian jobs could be created; from which Hungarian workers could find their place; from which economic sectors could be put on the path of success. We do not even see that, in many cases, businessmen and business groups obviously have a dubious background in Hungary, so after opening a gate, what damage the Hungarian national economy will suffer. After all, we are not far from reality if we assume that the emergence of similar interest groups and business circles in the structure of the national economy, which has already been established, is causing damage and injury. But the most important thing, however, is that we see that increasing the revenue from the budget is a first-rate consideration in your eyes, but it is not certain that establishment, or later citizenship, should be treated as a commodity. It would be strictly forbidden to treat our commodity and the right to be given or received for money as what our fellow countrymen fought for here in Hungary for centuries, and as a result we can now argue in Hungarian in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-60	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer is next, LMP.
u2014-12-09-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With regard to the bill before us and, to be exact, the establishment obligation as an institution, of course, the moral concerns - and I regret that so far there has been relatively little talk about it - were also raised, which Daniel Z. Karpát said at the end of his speech. With regard to the specific proposal, I would like to say that the problem is not with the amendment before us itself, or with what is in this amending proposal, but with what is not in it. We have already missed two big things in the general debate. One is that we have said that in other countries where the institution of the settlement policy is used, where there are indeed very serious moral concerns, one of its aims is to create jobs. If, for any reason, it makes sense to issue a settlement policy to a state, if it can really create new jobs. We said in the debate that in other countries the establishment of a settlement policy is regulated by explicitly requiring a number of new jobs to be created. At present, the amendment before us does not ensure that strict rules on job creation are imposed. And one more thing: it is not enough to require the creation of new jobs, but it is also necessary to look at the fact that the new jobs created by a person booking a settlement policy or his business have an impact on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. After all, I think it is worth stepping back a few steps from the establishment bond itself and facing the fact that the cancer of Hungarian economic development since the change of regime is the formation of a divided economy, where on one side there is a huge multinational capital, and on the other side there is an allied government supplier; on the other hand there is a very weak domestic small and medium-sized enterprise sector, a weak local economy across the country. Other countries, who have been on a rising and catching-up path over the last half century, have pursued the strategy of first strengthening the internal economy, domestic capital-building capacity, and then investing in foreign capital in relation to the organic needs of the internal economy and the local economy. Unfortunately, Hungary has not run this course in the last quarter of a century. [[11.30]] Therefore, when talking about such an institution in the past quarter of a century, which means that foreign capital is entering the Hungarian national economy in a specific way, it is also necessary to look at the extent to which this kind of foreign capital inflow helps or distorts the strengthening of the local economy, whether these investments will be adapted to the organic needs of the local economy. But what is most important in this area is today the number one doubt, concern and fear of what will happen to the workplaces; not public employment, not public work, the real, actual job where they can fulfill their creative abilities. So if, and if, such an institution is deemed necessary by the government or parliament, very strict rules on job creation must be put in place, but with this job creation being a real job, it is a real job that serves the development of the local economy. The other problem, and the other deficiency, is what our fellow Member Csaba Tóth has already said, is that there is no rule in this law to keep the offshore knights away. The Fidesz-KDNP just voted off the anti-corruption package of the LMP, in which we have proposed for many times again, now for the removal of the offshore knights. The damage to this country has mostly been done through offshore channels in the last quarter of a century; stolen property, stolen property, has been pumped out into offshore tomatoes, two and a half times the Hungarian government debt. Compared to this, offshore knights are not excluded either from the distribution of settlement bonds or from their mediation. I would go further: this bill or the institution of the settlement policy would serve the interests of the Hungarian national economy if, by the way, we were to require that the registration of a settlement policy is granted only by a person who demonstrates that all economic interests are transparent. Hungary does not need any more offshore knights to come here to write down a settlement policy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] So, in addition to the fact that there really are national security interests in the world, I think that there is a national economic interest that it is not possible to allow more offshore knights into the Hungarian national economy. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-09-62	Thank you very much. Congressman Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, please.
u2014-12-09-63	Mr President, Dear House, I am forced to take advantage of the remaining minutes, as the pro-government Members and State Secretarys do not respond substantially to the suggestions that have been raised. At the same time, it was said here that they are proud to present the most competitive settlement bond form on the EU market. I would not be so proud of this myself, because it means that the cheapest of the Member States of the Union is to break into the Hungarian market, and the cheapest is to obtain a long-term right of establishment in relation to Hungary; obviously, subject to certain conditions, but it means at fair reading that you are the cheapest selling the right to enter Hungary from among the governments of the Member States of the European Union, even if this temporarily increases the revenues of the budget, even if I say once again, but its long-term effects are not known to you. We must say that two circles are sure to benefit from this proposal. One of the above mentioned offshore companies, against which no restrictions could be imposed, were not intended to be imposed, and the other was the company of intermediaries, who, by also forming a team of uncertain backgrounds, could now benefit further in an uncertain percentage or commission system by allowing you to enter into Hungary's market in a dubious business circle. Obviously, they are also coming in decent, but let us not forget, as with regard to the refugee issue, there are clearly political, economic and social refugees, and there are common criminals who are involved in them, who would have no place either in a residential area or in the vicinity of Hungarian citizens. I would just like to bring up the refugee question for a thought, because there the government has taken a perfect view of itself. It can be seen that this year there are over 20,000 people who are crossing the border illegally, namely the number of people who wish to enter the European Union crossing the green border in Hungary, and it is also apparent that while Mr. State Secretary promised that there would be no mention of building refugee camps here, a circular went to the municipalities to offer an area for a similar purpose, if any, government or other intermediary. So, as the government has measured the situation with regard to refugees and cannot handle it - because now, by law enforcement means only, but if the number of refugees continue to multiply, then perhaps it doesn't know what it is doing - we can now talk about white collar approximation through a similar form of intrusion, because again we don't know what kind of business circles, for what purpose, for what economic damage it causes and in which sectors it causes these damage to Hungary. Therefore, we can only advise you not to throw away the right of establishment or citizenship in Hungary in the long term. This is not a category of rights that can be sold for money, so Hungarian people have fought very hard for generations, for a sovereign country that cannot be allowed to invade our country, the Hungarian national body and the Hungarian citizens for money. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Tuzson Bence has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to what has been said here in a few words. The fundamental question is that this is now an amendment of legislation, so this is not the fundamental law, so I would like to respond to the issues raised in relation to the amendment. One of the most important issues in this legislation is the increase in this amount from 250 thousand to 300 thousand euros. So what we're talking about is that if you want to stay temporarily in Hungary, that's all you have to pay. Transition is very important in this respect, and I would like to put an end to a misunderstanding: this draft legislation and the whole legislation itself are not about citizenship. It does not mean that a person pays EUR 300,000 and receives citizenship, but can temporarily stay in Hungary for five years. That is the point of this draft legislation, and there is still some clarification in the legislation here. On behalf of the authors, I would also like to express our support, of course, for the legislative committee's amendment, which contains procedural clarifications. The question of job creation has been raised. Indeed, one of the most important things in Hungary is job creation, and we must strive to have more and more jobs in Hungary, but its assets must be selected, and we must look at the means by which this is effectively achieved, whether this system of instruments is suitable for job creation or not. I am not sure this would be the best tool, but by the way, if money flows into the country, it will certainly help to increase the number of jobs in Hungary. Our constitution and our Fundamental Law guarantee the direction in which public money can be released in Hungary, and transparency is required by the Hungarian Constitution. Everyone must comply with this, and the Economic Committee must also comply with it when it takes its decision, and the intermediaries who are entitled to carry out the activity should be designated accordingly. This must be borne in mind and interpreted accordingly, and the legislation must be followed accordingly. So, once again, the essence of this legislation is to increase public revenue here and increase from EUR 250 thousand to EUR 300 thousand the amount for which this type of bond can be purchased. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-66	Dear Parliament, Secretary of State Kontra would like to take the floor, but unfortunately I must inform you that, under the rules of the House, I can give the floor before the vote, and I cannot give the floor now. [[Károly Kontra: Thank you very much.]] We'll get back to work. Decision will be taken next week. Thank you for your rapporteur's opinion. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to construction and spatial planning, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment, follow up. The submission is T/2078. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Justice as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2078/3. and T/2078/4. was given to them. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/2078/6. and the summary report is T/2078/7. Available on the website. [[11.40]] Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, which will take 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our committee discussed T/2078. Bill No. 1. This bill contains four amendments to four laws. It contains certain clarifications on these legislation, which facilitates the applicability of these legislation to local authorities. This is the purpose of this legislation and has been discussed by the committee. It wasn't a long trial, it was Dezső Believing, if I remember correctly, the only speaker who commented in this debate. He questioned certain clarifications as to whether they really serve the interests that the legislation, as a whole, would serve. However, our committee adopted this amendment with 28 yes and 8 abstentions, as well as this package and the related Commission decisions, so the committee decided without voting against with 28 yes and 8 abstentions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask Mr. L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. In this case, as the designated Judicial Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur, there will be speeches from its representatives. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, and that the debate is taking place in a time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to MEP Dezső Széchenyi, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-09-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! My fellow Member has just mentioned that I have also given our position on this amendment at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. In short, I would like to add a few points to this. One of them is that the government's intention to amend the law can be perceived in a way that is simply put in a way that allows the municipalities to implement this law. I think that this is also clear from the justification given in the general justification where it is stated that the draft allows for the applicability of the rules on the deployment of laws to certain municipalities. So the government's intention was to apply the law that we adopted about a year and a half ago. There is nothing wrong with that; if I want to simplify it, it could be said that, in fact, the correction of the errors of a law adopted earlier is what the government has worked on and proposes to do in connection with the amendment of the law. I said there was nothing wrong with that, even though I looked at the history of this. At a time when the Fundamental Law - that is, what it originally was - was adopted about a year and a half ago - was not preceded by a broader agreement on the adoption of the law, and obviously the consequence is that today, after a year and a half, we realize that the municipalities cannot work under this law. So the intention is right: it is good to correct what is expected to be able to work better in the future. What is wrong with me, however, is that I didn't sense the government's will to discuss this in a broader professional circle, perhaps even to discuss it with those involved. What I'm going to tell you in the coming period, that's basically what this is all about. That is why I am not sure that this amendment will allow everything in this area to work smoothly and smoothly in the coming period. What are those things I think about? - and I have a hunch that we'll be dealing with this law in the coming period. One of my comments was that, and I would like to say it now: the law says that the exercise of the administrative expertise in the field of investment and construction is not subject to any entitlement in the coming period. This, along with my next observation, is, in my view, an emergency. Next, it is said that the authority will no longer be able to prohibit the continuation of the construction activity if it endangers stability, life, health or public safety directly. I could suggest to everyone that if we pass this law and walk down the street and see construction somewhere, we will somehow avoid it in a wide range of directions. We have no idea whether there is a construction site that is dangerous or could cause direct damage to health or possibly endanger public safety. So the fact that no entitlement is binding on the administrative expert in the field of construction and the other thing I just mentioned is that the authority cannot prohibit the continuation of the construction activity in the future if it detects such flagrant irregularities or emergencies in relation to a particular construction, I think it is not certain that it is the right direction. In my heart, I would give the authorities the power to prohibit this kind of activity if they do. At present, according to the amendment of the bill, you can only impose a fine or call on the person concerned to eliminate this emergency. We suggested that it might be worth reconsidering whether this is okay. My third point concerns settlement arrangements. The intention is to... - and this is an extension of the deadline, because originally they could not comply with the deadline for the municipalities. Here we set this deadline for the preparation of settlement planning plans between Budapest and the agglomeration. This expired this year, and it's basically an extension of that. Sometimes the deadline cannot be respected, although it is questionable that if we set a deadline for municipalities that they do not respect, the next event may be that we set another deadline. There are two options, I think. One is that we force the municipalities to comply with these deadlines, since we have already included them in the law. And the other is what we're dealing with here, and it says that they couldn't do it, so we're changing the deadline. But why I actually asked you to speak, it's not that, because that's obviously what happens in the state administration. For what I asked for the floor, the original text of the amendment of the law correctly included that Budapest, the districts of Budapest and the surrounding settlements in the agglomeration should think about this together in order to ensure consistency between these settlement planning plans. My problem is that for some reason, I wasn't present, I don't know why, but he took the districts out of that wording. So it looks like today, in practice, that Budapest and the settlements in the agglomeration should be in harmony with the various settlement planning plans. Anyone who lives in everyday life and knows the practice knows precisely that the outskirts of Budapest... - who are directly bordering with the agglomeration settlements, this could be a very important story, since they should be the first to create harmony, not the capital itself. I'm a little afraid that we're going to recreate a situation where they won't be able to carry out this task they've been given. The metropolitan districts that are involved in this area have been excluded from this whole story, and Budapest will fight with it. In my view, it can be pre-enveloped that certain periphery areas will certainly be reluctant to be forced to plan settlements in some settlements - either in the capital or in a agglomeration. That's what we suggested for consideration. Since this could not be heard, we cannot support the amendment of the bill. Thank you.
u2014-12-09-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Members seeking a normal word will now come first, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here.
u2014-12-09-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the authors what is the problem with this sentence, which, for some reason, seems to be dislikable to the authors:. In the area of landscape protection areas of national importance, only a priority region and county area use category can be designated, which does not jeopardise the maintenance of the landscape values on which the designation is based. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.50]] What's wrong with that? We said we could basically support it. This exception is proposed by the draft, and all I have tabled as an amendment is that it should remain the way it was, so that it is not possible to apply a different regulation which would endanger the landscape element and to put something that the local community might not agree with. We tabled an amendment in order to maintain this regulation, because all the others would have been considered broadly acceptable. Looking at the legislation, you have already looked at the elements of this, a number of which are only formal. I fully share Mr Reliable's concerns that if something fails to keep its deadline, we should improve the legislation. At the same time, Congressman Kepli convinced me that, in the case of Lake Balaton, it is in the particular interest of the region to extend this. In the general debate, the pro-government representatives also argued convincingly that this is also in the interest of the capital, where the municipality should be assisted. So why would we expect the local authorities to comply with a deadline that the Hungarian government does not, by the way, signify to respect deadlines for its commitments in international agreements or anything? So why would the municipalities be any different? So I think this part would be simply acceptable and would be eligible to implement this type of regulation. Overall, the Law on Construction 1, 2 and 3 The amendments to Section 2 of this Article extend procedural rules within the scope of the possibility of electronic administration. Overall, this is not a big problem either. So this was the only point here that I would have recommended as an amendment to my fellow members of the government, XXVI of 2003 on the national spatial planning plan. In its amendment to the Act, we would very much like the landscape protection aspects to remain. I submitted this as an amendment. Otherwise, the amendment would be acceptable, this is the one that we think is particularly worrying, and we wanted the landscape protection aspects to remain better. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-09-72	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the time frame available. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see that. This debate is closed. I will ask the author, Secretary of State L. Simon László, if he wishes to respond. Wish you had the floor. There you go.
u2014-12-09-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The truth is that no new aspect has been raised in today's debate. I have already answered all the questions raised by my fellow Members in the general debate, both in the national exposé and at the end of the debate, in substance. I would just like to note that, in order to inform my fellow believer, we have submitted several points of this bill at the request of the municipalities and the local government organisations. So, not only do we not want to discuss the change with the stakeholders, but rather because we are talking about a legislative amendment of five elements, a number of its moments were included in the bill at the request of those concerned. I do not wish to say anything else, and I believe that I have said everything in the general debate, and that there is no need to multiply words. I would ask my fellow Members to support the consolidated bill with their vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-74	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place at our meeting next week. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. a debate on the Commission's reports and the proposals for amendments to law and related legislation. The submission was made in T/2082. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Culture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2082/2. and T/2082/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2082/5. T/2082/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2014-12-09-75	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 4 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. T/2082 on the amendment of Act T/2082 and related laws Bill No. 1. This bill was submitted with the aim of amending the rules for archaeological exploration of the protection of archaeological heritage, in particular prior to large investments. The amendment of the monument protection rules covers a more sound and differentiated protection of monument values, better coordination of the interests of owners and value protection, while the amendment to the national memorial site is primarily technical and precise. In the course of the amendment of the regulation on the national memorial site, the new National Clergy of Crab Cross is added to the Kis fogház and the bill declares the castle of Eger as a national memorial. A large part of the amendments were justified by the legislative effort to complement the fundamental legal institutions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage with a more transparent and predictable regulation than the current one, to facilitate procedures, thereby speeding up the government's intention to coordinate the interests of the economy, owners and heritage protection. The above bill will bring about a change of approach in the area of cultural heritage protection. With a change of perspective, the strategic importance of preserving the built heritage can be increased by not increasing or even reducing the burden on owners and users of the property, simplifying procedures and thus making the system of monument protection more transparent. The above changes also make owners interested in preserving monuments, so the prestige of the buildings can also be increased. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment of the Committee on Culture, which was supported by our committee with 23 yes, 4 no and 8 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to make further technical amendments, which were supported with 23 yes, 8 no and 4 abstentions. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 23 yes, 4 no and 8 abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-76	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Secretary of State L. Simon László if he wants to react now. [[L. Simon László says no.]] He doesn't want to respond. In this case, I would like to inform you that, since the designated Committee on Culture does not wish to present a rapporteur, there will be speeches by its representatives within the time frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP.
u2014-12-09-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. T/2082 on the amendment of Act T/2082 and related laws The proposed amendment does not contain any significant changes, the Government would like to accept the original text practically without amendment. In this respect, the LMP expressed several important criticisms at an earlier stage of the debate, while recognising positive developments. Let me get this straight. We considered it a problem that not all archaeological sites could be protected in general compared to previous regulations. We have said that, in parallel with the necessary legal restrictions, we would consider it necessary to carry out systematic archaeological and topographic research of the country's archaeological units with the assistance of all the institutions. We have raised the fact that we do not support the proposal either because we consider it a serious problem to regulate the new system of relations in relation to exploration. Not only will the previously announced competitive position not be achieved, but the new sub-contracting system may significantly reduce efficiency in the future, and accreditation of large investment-related archaeological exploration projects the possibility of musik. This story is not about ensuring quality, but about questioning competences to involve all kinds of new organisations and institutions in the system. Who knows who they're gonna connect to? [[12.00]] The whole accreditation procedure is not yet clear, and the amendment before us does not clarify the details. We're afraid the minister will control this with manual control. In addition, we have also talked about the problems of regulation on the costs of preventive exploration, or about the fact that in many cases the role of the institution carrying out and controlling archaeological work is not separated. Dear House, The LMP still insists on its argument that it is a clear step forward, regardless of the need to include further tightening guarantees in the regulation, which finally apply the natural and cultural heritage protection aspects to the interests of large investors. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-12-09-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, and that concludes the debate. I'm going to ask the author if he wants to react. Secretary L. Simon, here you go.
u2014-12-09-79	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your contribution. In fact, he repeated all that he had said in the general debate. That is why I do not wish to answer that question. There is a large bill in front of this House, which repositions the area in its entirety, and I am very sorry for that. In any case, I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill before you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-09-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place in the next week's decisions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the agreed agenda, I declare that T/2083. The meeting of the Legislative Committee on 4 December did not conclude the discussion of the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate on the legislative proposal, so that today's second reading cannot be discussed. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid and the summary amendment proposal will be discussed. The submission is T/2087. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a designated committee T/2087/9. and T/2087/10. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2087/12. and the summary report is T/2087/13. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I will ask if one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion later. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate like that. It would now be for Congressman Kucsák, who is the rapporteur of the committee, but we would enjoy this only in that case. [[Dr. András Schiffer: If you were here!]] If he were present in the room. But since we don't, we're gonna have to spare it. However, there are some speakers who have been notified. So I give the floor to Márta Demeter, who is also not in the room, and therefore we cannot enjoy his speech either. After that, I will ask Mr. István Arrowmaker, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak.
u2014-12-09-81	No thanks, Mr. President. [[It's a short break.]]
u2014-12-09-82	After technical consultation, a Member who is present in the Chamber has applied and his name is on the monitor, so that both components are in order to speak. Consequently... [[Dr. András Schiffer indicates that Márta Demeter is arriving.]] I am in charge of the meeting, and although I understand that you are kindly giving the floor to the lady in the Chamber, I am ordering you to take advantage of this opportunity, Congressman. Here.
u2014-12-09-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is a bill before us, or there is a summation debate on a bill that we can support on the one hand, but on the other hand I must also note that international development policy is typically a public policy area where legislative normative regulation matters little, but rather a political, foreign policy concept. From now on, however, I am forced to talk in part about what might have been good if it had been included in this bill, but rather about what kind of foreign policy strategy would be desirable in which an international development strategy, an international development policy, can effectively take place. First of all, I would like to point out that the fact that there should be an international development law in Hungary was initiated by the LMP faction in the last cycle. International development policy is based on the understanding that we live on a planet where global imbalances can ring fast enough in any country where the butterfly effect prevails, so we cannot believe that Hungary, the Hungarian national economy, could be independent in the long term from the misery, environmental disasters away from us, from overpopulation causing problems, or even from the harmful effects of climate change far from us. It's not like that! Hungary has not only a humanitarian and neighbourly obligation to have an international development policy that can help countries or peoples, if any, away from us, but also our well-informed interests. Of course, the ethical and moral dimension is also important, so that we owe it to our fellow citizens, we owe it to other peoples, but at least as important is the understanding that the planet itself is the only ecosystem, the understanding that global imbalances can very easily lead to catastrophic crises, the effects of which Hungary cannot help. That is why it would be important to see, throughout the Hungarian foreign policy, the view that foreign policy is not just about enforcing business interests. My problem is, therefore, not in itself with the bill, but in the fact that the foreign policy strategy within which such a law is to be applied is contrary to the spirit of international development cooperation and international development policy. What the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have spoken about in recent months is that foreign policy is about the same as pursuing economic interests. However, we must be aware that foreign policy must be driven by value, the values that must guide Hungarian foreign policy, of course they also come from the insight of Hungarian economic interests. It is also important to emphasise this because, in other cases, Hungary also needed the help of the international community, and Hungary itself has, if you like, its value-driven ambitions, for example, I think about the survival of the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, where we need international allies. At this point, I would also like to talk about the fact that international development cooperation can prevail within a foreign policy that leaves provincialism behind. I am forced to say that when Hungary failed to apply for security council membership two years ago, it suddenly became important for Hungary, Hungarian foreign policy, to gain sympathy from different distant countries. At that time, there was a brutal confrontation with the fact that on the globe there are innumerable amounts of sovereign states with whom Hungary does not have any existing relations. Hungary was faced with a decision, an international decision, where it would have had a well-conceived interest in building ties to other countries on other channels, but at least through international development cooperation. It is regrettable that, for example, the Hungarian-Pacific company, an IPU group established in this context, has not yet been approved by the house management. This is particularly important because Hungary has work to do to mitigate the effects of climate change, as the effects of climate change in Hungary are already being felt today. Action against climate change is only possible within an international development cooperation. [[12.10]] And what I lack, I would like to conclude by saying that the promotion of fair trade, the promotion of trade where products are produced exclusively in a environmentally friendly and non-child labour-free way, must be an explicit international development policy objective in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-09-84	Honourable Congressman, I appreciated you being in the room, so I didn't tell you. With all due respect, I'm gonna need everyone to respect the house rules. This, of course, also applies to Mrs Márta Demeter, to whom I am now giving the floor.
u2014-12-09-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your patience. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, there is a welcome proposal on the table in this House, because, as my fellow Member Schiffer has just mentioned, this initiative goes back to the previous parliamentary term, where the MSZP and the LMP have initiated this. The establishment of the International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Act has long been advocated by national and international organisations involved in policy implementation. And, as I have said, it is to be welcomed that Hungary is contributing to the fight against poverty, in line with its national interests and taking into account the country's ability to bear weight, in international development cooperation to promote human and minority rights, sustainable development and international security and stability. It is also involved in the reduction of the negative impact of crises caused by natural and civilisational disasters through humanitarian assistance. We consider it very important, and perhaps this can at last help to prepare a single foreign policy strategy that the bill 6. The Minister for Foreign Economy shall prepare a policy strategy for a period of at least four years in order to plan international development cooperation activities and ensure consistency of policies for development purposes. The policy strategy sets out the range of beneficiary partner countries and identifies sectoral priorities. In doing so, it should cooperate with the relevant ministries and consult civil society. In the framework of one of my amendments, I asked for this consultation to include Hungarian parliamentary parties and professional organisations. It is inexplicable that while, according to the bill, central government administrations cooperate with civil society organisations and other social partners, in particular with the representatives of science, culture, interest representation bodies and parliamentary parties in the course of international development cooperation activities, they are excluded from the creation of this four-year strategy. We therefore believe that the bill provides for cooperation between central government bodies, civil society organisations and other social partners, in particular science, culture, interest representation bodies and parliamentary parties. Cooperation would take the form of regular information and consultation during policy-related legislation, planning, implementation and monitoring. We will continue to initiate clarification of this regular information and consultation, the regularity of the meetings and whether the invited parties can make use of the agenda on the subject in the Ministerial Decree on the implementation of the Act. We also consider it important that central government administrations involve economic operators in the implementation of international development cooperation activities that practice sustainable, environmentally and socially in line with international standards. The bill is 10. Article 1 (1) of the Act also states which organisations may contribute to international humanitarian aid. These are proposed: humanitarian international, regional and local organisations, central body of the professional disaster management body, ministries, foreign representations of Hungary, civil society organisations established in Hungary, the International Red Cross and the Red Crescent movement, national organisations and economic operators. I also proposed, in the context of an amendment, that the churches be included in this circle, as international humanitarian aid cannot be imagined today without the Church's involvement. The majority of the committee rejected this amendment on the grounds that the churches were involved in these actions through their foundations. But we don't think that's a reason why they shouldn't be among the listed named contributors. [[Erzsébet Schmuck takes the notary seat.]] The bill is 15. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall report to the Government by 31 July each year on the activities of international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid in the previous year. Following its adoption by the Government, the report will be published on the website of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is why this report cannot be placed on the Parliament's table, and why it will only be published on the Ministry's websites, why the Parliament will not discuss it at least at committee level. This was my third amendment, which was also voted off by the pro-government majority. However, these proposals that we have made, although not unfortunately accepted, would have been refined in this bill. In principle, we welcome the initiative and we need as many similar initiatives as possible in addition to the fact that the government should completely rethink its foreign policy strategy, if any. For at the moment, we can see that Hungarian foreign policy is completely addicted to Viktor Orbán's illusions. The interests prevail in him, they enforce those interests on behalf of Hungary, which are not equal to the Hungarian government, which Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is making up. And his very continuous and smooth partner in this is also the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Péter Szijjártó. We therefore need equally good and meaningful proposals and an extension of dialogue. We cannot agree with the government's foreign policy, by the way. We cannot agree that it will bring Hungary into total isolation and by making the country a playground for all kinds of political or real games in Viktor Orbán's illusions and dreams. There are very serious consequences to a thoughtless and hasty foreign policy. We also find it very serious that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which should have an extremely rapid response time, should be able to reflect properly on international events, so that it can adequately represent Hungary's interests, Hungarian interests, there seems to be a paralysis, as there are continuous reorganisations and continuous cuts surrounding the path of the new foreign minister, so we do not think that this is the right path. Stability and discretion are needed here. And speaking of Hungarian interests, it is extremely important that we clarify what is in Hungary's interest and what we call Hungarian national interests: the continuing problem is that the Prime Minister and a very narrow circle lie to Hungarian national interests about their own interests, self-interests and possible previous commitments, not about how to attract as many investors as possible to Hungary, create as many new jobs as possible. I would like to go back to the bill and see forward-looking proposals in the future, as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[12.20]]
u2014-12-09-86	Thank you very much. We will now continue the work with speeches asking for a normal word. First, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik. Here.
u2014-12-09-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report on what has been said in the Legislative Committee, and in this you can join the position of the MSZP. The better-looking ones also came up with amendments that could have been accepted, which would have been essentially technical fine-tunings and partly agreed with what the MSZP congresswoman had just said. However, I would like to draw attention to it once again, because we had two proposals that would have been acceptable in any case, and no substantive justification whatsoever, rather, a justification specific to Mr Balla, a member of the committee, was rejected, practically by a simple condescending response. In essence, we also planned to expand the range of humanitarian aid organisations. True, we put it that way, and we targeted a more closed community, which would have been about the churches we've taken in. Neither do we, nor do we, nor do we, understand the government's idea of why it is necessary to define so strictly, in figures, who can participate when, in the last point, it only says that otherwise economic operators can participate. Well, that's the toughest rule you could write in it. We believe that if two parties and a greater support were to propose to include the churches alongside economic operators, so that they could not exercise this right only through their civil society organisations or other organisations, this would have been at least appreciated. Of course, we have a condescending response. But even more outrageous was the answer to our suggestion, which was the fifth. It would have been the amendment concerned by Section 5 in which we wished that the first priority of aid and humanitarian aid was to be the priority of Hungarians, to keep an eye on the primary interests of Hungarians across borders, to which the only answer was that this was contrary to international law and international conventions. But no one has given us a more precise definition, and has not told us which conventions, what international law principles Hungary violates by adopting and acting in accordance with its law. Because there may indeed be a situation, even in the neighbouring countries, where we must treat and support significant Hungarians in such a way as to be a priority, because it is enough to look east of us and to see what they can develop, and in the speeches before the agenda, it has already been said from my fellow Member, Mr Kulcár, what dangers, what threats the situation in that direction entails. So we must concentrate on ensuring that Hungarians and Hungarians in this country are given priority in humanitarian aid, so we wanted to include this. By the way, we didn't ask for more than what's written in the law 2. In addition, we would have wanted to expand it, obviously in favour of ourselves, the Hungarians. But it's just the usual condescending style that the governing party has handled on the committee. So, basically, all fine-tunings have been voted down, although we think they could both have been included, and both of them would have been an otherwise improved and forward-looking proposal. All in all, however, we see and need to know that this legislation is welcome and acceptable, so I believe that there will be no doubt in your support, but because of the attitude and the further warning of the attitude of the ruling party. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, By the time I asked you, Congressman Szilágyi has already applied, so I'll give him the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make a little more sense of the issue that my fellow Member has just said. I would also like to say specifics about what the representatives of Jobbik did not like at the committee meeting. Let's start by calling yourself a national government. For each measure - against which we have repeatedly raised our voice - they place the national one. We don't understand why it's national, let's say, a tobacco store, and we can still make a list of these things. However, when it comes to matters that really belong to the nation's cause, you simply have a completely different view. This was what my fellow Member said: we wanted the areas inhabited by Hungarians to have a clear priority in humanitarian aid. A country such as Hungary, the majority of which has been disconnected, and at the moment it is considered to be the territory of foreign countries, but is inhabited by Hungarians, a country in such a situation must be given special attention, not only to Hungarians living outside the border but also to Hungarians living in words and actions. What shocked us, for example, was that Mr Secretary of State, who was sitting at that committee meeting, said that belonging to the nation could not be the basis for a differentiated assessment, a differentiated consideration. Well, what else could it be if it wasn't this? This shocked us, and we found it outrageous. The other, which also upset us, are - as my fellow Member has mentioned - Balla's reactions to such issues. Once again, it's a law. At this moment, as Members of Parliament, we are responsible for creating laws in this House, and then implementing these laws as much as possible, and following them, because this is how we can govern and improve the country. What did Congressman György Balla say about this? He said word for word that it was just a piece of paper. No matter what we write on it, it's going to matter what we're going to do. He said about a law that we are discussing here in front of the House, and which we will vote on, that no matter what we write in it, it doesn't matter what is in this law, it's just a paper; it matters if humanitarian aid is needed, what the government will do when it comes to Hungarian populated areas. In my opinion, this is outrageous. Says your faction leader, by the way. A man who would have the greatest responsibility to pass laws here in this House that benefit this country, which laws are for the benefit of the people, and which laws are created because these laws will have to be followed. And he says that a law that we're making here is just paper, no matter what we write on it, it's what we're gonna do. This is a typical example, by the way - I think you are following the way to Orbán - when Viktor Orbán said not to look at what I am saying, but what I am doing. But we will never agree with this, and we would have liked it, and we still want to give priority to the Hungarian populated areas in the event of the need for any humanitarian assistance there. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-90	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman László Kucsák, Fidesz.
u2014-12-09-91	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Hungary is a member of the international donor community, in line with its national interests and taking into account the country's capacity to cope with poverty, human and minority rights, sustainable development and international development cooperation to promote international security and stability, as well as humanitarian assistance to reduce the negative effects of crises caused by natural and civilisational disasters. This activity of the Hungarian State facilitates the development of our external relations, the access of domestic actors to the external market, the participation of certain segments of the public sector and the expansion of the system of relations, as well as the development of Hungarian knowledge and technology transfer. The legislative proposals before us have long been called for by national and international actors. Hungary's international development cooperation strategy and the 1182/2014 policy concept for international humanitarian aid. Point 1.3 of Government Resolution No 1 calls on the Minister of Foreign Affairs to prepare and submit to the Government a proposal on this matter. The bill sets out the basic principles of these two policies, as well as the basic rules for planning, implementation, financing and control, and lays down that detailed implementing rules will be included in the government decree and ministerial decrees to be drawn up until the law enters into force. The summarised amendment contains the technical clarification proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs with a single wording. At the same time, in conjunction with what has been said above, I note that the committee did not support the proposal of the MSZP that churches should be able to provide humanitarian aid on their own, and also the better proposal to make foreign Hungarians specifically named by the law as the ones to be supported. [[12.30]] The reason for rejecting the previous proposal is that churches carry out this kind of activity through their civil society organisations, while the other motion was rejected by the majority because we believe that the Hungarians from abroad are part of our nation, so we have a constitutional obligation to take care of them. Thus, it did not seem necessary to set this up in an international treaty. In light of this, I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-09-92	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Congressman György Szilágyi, please.
u2014-12-09-93	Mr President, just for the record: we wanted to name foreign Hungarians, not to be supported, but to be given priority within these conventions. In our view, it would have been fully within the framework that Congressman Kucsák has said that it sets a framework, giving a framework character for all of this. It would have been possible for this one clause to be included, and we would have said that Hungarians from abroad should be treated with special support in the event of any humanitarian assistance. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-09-94	Thank you. Once again, I ask whether there are any other candidates for comments. [[There's no candidate.]] No. In that case, the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr. István Arrowmaker, State Secretary, if he wishes to react. Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary. Here.
u2014-12-09-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me just a few thoughts in the debate. Thank you very much for the comments that supported the bill, and I would ask that this continue in the vote. I would like to respond to some of Mr Schiffer's thoughts. I do not agree with his approach that Hungarian foreign policy would be provincial and choose between partners. The announced Eastern opening policy, which, of course, applies not only to the east, but also to the south and to all other directions, expresses the fact that the number of Hungary's partners is wide open and that we should discriminate as little as possible between the larger and the smaller states. I believe that this is a very progressive policy, and we are also talking specifically about states that are also developing our relations with states that are facing serious problems, and the programme offered - just to give an example - Stipendium Hungaricum, for example, provides the citizens of these states with specific opportunities to contribute to the development of the country when they return. I would like to respond to his second comment that the foreign policy of the Hungarian Government is too uniform or that certain ecological aspects would not be taken into account. This is not the case either, as we specifically focus on issues such as water scarcity that is becoming more and more severe in certain areas of Asia, as we are dealing with our partners on a bilateral or regional basis, but I could give an example of investments in Vietnam, where we would also like to help the water household. I believe that Hungarian foreign policy does pay particular attention to these issues. Here in the debate we have already heard the answers that most of the objections have been made. I believe that we really need to take note of this, and I ask the honourable representatives of Jobbik not to feel condescending in the debate, the emphasis is on international cooperation. If we are talking about international cooperation and international humanitarian cooperation and assistance, this really cannot be on the ground of discrimination, so here we should specifically mention what ethnic groups we want to support and do not want, this is indeed not an ethical approach, and it really does not reflect the international spirit in this respect. At the same time, I believe that the regions inhabited by Hungarians across the border are given special attention in a number of other areas and within the framework of a number of other developments. Here, in any case, it is important to think about the serious disasters that have occurred in the Carpathian Basin. Obviously, the Hungarian contribution would not have been acceptable if we had distinguished between Ruthenians, Hungarians, Romanians, Serbs or anyone whose house and property had been destroyed. That's an important point. I would also like to respond to Mrs Demeter's suggestion that the text of the report to be submitted to Parliament was not supported either by the government or by the parliamentary majority, but, of course, in the annual report to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister will also address the issues governed by the law in his report, so that in any case, the report on implementation will be sent to the Parliament's table. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-09-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place next week. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the 2015 health contribution of tobacco companies and the final amendment proposal follow up. Independent motion by Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, Mr Gabriella Selmeczi T/2027. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that Congressman Attila Gelencsér, the notary of the Parliament, has informed you that he has joined the law as a national. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2027/4. and T/2027/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2027/7. No 2027/8 and its summary report. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. The Commission's majority opinion would have been delivered by Mr Lajos Szűcs, who, however, could not appear here, so that the minority opinion would be presented. I would like to inform you that two have applied for a minority opinion, Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr György Lukács. There's only seven minutes left for the two of you. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Here.
u2014-12-09-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the Legislative Committee, there was an ember debate on the bill or amendments, as the opposition was wondering whether this bill is now about imposing a one-time penalty tax, an individual legislation that can be incorporated into Fidesz's policy, or whether it is really about increasing the revenue side of healthcare and seeking funding for this. Therefore, we first asked and clarified whether this is a one-off tax item, whether it is a tax burden on the 2014 activity in 2015. The answer was yes. From this we conclude that it is indeed a specific legislation, a penalty tax. The other question is whether the legislation will examine 2014 from the point of view of the tax base. The answer was that, yes, this means that, on the basis of a past economic process and past economic activity, it will levy taxes for the next year, which, I think, is completely inoperable and unmanageable in tax legislation, because the company cannot prepare for tax purposes, it cannot shape its business year knowing that it will have to pay taxes next year after its activity in that year. An amendment was then tabled, which concerned that not all operators had to pay this tax in full, but those operators who invested in 2014 were again concerned with a past economic process and economic activity, which could write down one third of their investment up to 80 per cent of the tax rate, i.e. exempt from the tax. This reinforced the fact that there is specific legislation, that tobacco companies close to Fidesz will again benefit better, although we did not get the answer to which tobacco company this could relate, even though we asked the representatives of the government, even though they were conducting an impact assessment, because they were just calculating what tax revenue they could expect from this tax. A certain amount was determined, but they refused to tell us how much of this will be paid by the operators on the market. Thus, we did not even know which operator would benefit from this amendment. [[12.40]] So, like the bill of advertising taxation, like many, many legislative proposals, once again, people will be exempt from Fidesz's penalty tax. But even though the objective is noble, as said by our fellow Member Gabriella Selmeczi, the ulterior motive has unfortunately fallen out of the Legislative Committee. The Fidesz majority of the Legislative Committee voted in favour of these amendments, we did not support them, and it is quite clear that such a specific legislative process will not be supported by the Socialist Group. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-09-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. I would like to remind you that you have roughly three and a half minutes. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing where my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth left off, the minority opinion of the Legislative Committee is well founded on the opposition opinions of the MSZP and Jobbik, but the other Members also expressed a similar view about this, who are on the opposition side. We have consistently stated that this legislation is not a good instrument for achieving the goal, and we have also taken a unanimous position that it seems to be a pre-arranged legislation for someone. So it has come up several times, and it is safe to say in this circle that Continental was a tobacco company, to whom this seems to have been tailored, and that certain market efforts have been guided by this whole bill, but also by representatives of individual interests in the proposed amendment of the bill. We said that the goal could be supported, and everyone agreed that supporting the goal would be a health contribution, and that it would still be acceptable to work in health care, but it seems that in Santa's day, the dress-up parties at the government also took off, because here, too, they tried to push a tobacco tax with a health contribution cap in case anyone noticed. It became even more obvious that Continental would enjoy the benefits, as the expected revenue of HUF 10-12 billion could, for example, reduce their own tax liability by HUF 600 million thanks to this ex-post absolution. However, there were also names that could reduce the volume much higher, so the initially expected 10-12 billion - and these conservative estimates - could decrease by 3-4 billion in revenue. And, by the way, the MSZP and Jobbik and the opposition representatives all took a unanimous position that this would not be significant for health care, since it is only for one year, while health care has to be subject to continuous trendy planning. So it's a one-time help, although it's helpful, but it's not enough help. We have consistently expressed the view that there has been a legitimacy crisis in relation to this legislation, which, therefore, is not compatible with the intended objectives with the instrument, has been further strengthened by this amendment, which, as we have said before, seems to have been left out not only by a horse foot but by a whole horse sword. Well, to put it that way, it's still quite practical. Thus, all opposition parties have rightly and thoroughly concluded that this bill cannot be supported in this way, and this has been expressed in the minority opinion of the Legislative Committee and in the speeches attached to it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-100	Thank you too, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The authors indicated that they would like to speak at the end of the debate. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to speak now. Secretary of State says no. In this case, as the designated Economic Committee did not wish to present a rapporteur, it is now up to its representatives to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér, notary of Parliament, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-09-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the tools to combat smoking is the appropriate excise duty on tobacco products. As the general justification for the bill puts it, this burden is largely imposed on consumers, while they cannot be the sole party to the individual social costs of smoking. Tobacco manufacturers easily pass excise duties on to the smoking population, which may be acceptable in a decisive part of health policy, but the personal burden of tobacco manufacturers is also absolutely justified. The process of restructuring and making the health system more effective has recently started. Improving the quality of health care is a key public policy objective for which the necessary financial resources must be provided. The general objective of the bill is therefore double in view of the above. At the same time, it intends to implement the basic objective of fair public burden-sharing when it also requires tobacco manufacturers or registered traders to bear the burden, while at the same time helping to develop government ideas for the transformation of the health system by involving additional resources. The amount of the contribution is the revenue from the central budget, which can therefore only be used to finance the health subsystems of the general government. The payment of the contribution shall be made by the legal person who carries out or has carried out activities in Hungary for the manufacture and trade of tobacco products. The bill sets out the amount of the contribution to be paid in lanes. The contribution is 0.2 per cent, but at least 30 million forints, for the part of the tax base not exceeding HUF 30 billion. For more than HUF 30 billion, but not more than HUF 60 billion, the tax base is 2.5 percent and the tax base exceeds 60 billion is 4.5 percent. The Legislative Committee's motion refines the proposal originally submitted, in view of the tobacco companies that made the investment in Hungary in 2014, as they contributed significantly and voluntarily to an important public policy goal, to increase domestic industrial employment. It is therefore appropriate to allow them to reduce the tax they pay by part of the amount of the investment carried out. According to the summarised amendment proposal, the tax liability can therefore be reduced to a maximum of 80 per cent by the difference between 30% of the amount declared as investment in 2014 and the amount of State or Union aid used to carry out the investment. In view of this, I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal.
u2014-12-09-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Józsa, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-09-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, we are once again witnessing a constitutional infringement amendment; of course, if Hungary had a constitution and a rule of law. As my colleague Bertalan Tóth said, the proposal violates constitutional fundamental rights in so far as it contains a retroactive levy, it imposes a special tax on the basis of the year 2014 which is practically realised, and then the amending proposal adds that it does not cut the whole thing off immediately, but that 30% of the productive investment also made in 2014 can be deducted from the tax. Well, I can tell you, it's a great grace, and we'd much prefer the Fidesz government to consider constitutional order, legal certainty. Of course, this does not contradict the fact that the MSZP fraction would disagree with its stated aim of taking steps to reduce smoking in Hungary. At the same time, these steps, which are well formulated with the aim of curbing smoking, are quite clearly another benefit of a Fidesz Moonyard, namely Mr Sánta and his Continental Tabak works, which are among the friends of János Lázár. Of course, in order to keep appearances a bit, they also pay taxes, but much less than all the others. [[12.50]] The bill sets out the amount of the so-called health contribution to be paid, in fact the operating tax. For the small ones, only 0.2 percent, but for everyone who deals with the distribution of tobacco products, the turnover exceeds HUF 30 billion and is less than HUF 60 billion - this includes János Lázár's circle of friends, they pay 2.5 percent, they pay business taxes or operating taxes elsewhere - who have an annual turnover of more than HUF 30 billion, after that they have to pay 4.5 percent, so they have to pay quite a significant tax. I think it is not just an assumption that sooner or later this tax will also appear in consumer prices, retail prices, as margins are also determined by the economic operators. Therefore, even if this amending proposal itself were not constitutionally offensive in the sense that it would impose a tax or tax reduction retroactively on an already closed economic activity, it would be eligible, because it would indeed take into account a productive investment in the tax relief, but it is a tax which you are declaring to be a one-off tax, so in principle this legislation will enter into force on 1 February 2015 and will apply until 31 December 2015, but it has also been said in other special taxes that it will only be one-off and then what God does, it has not been, it has been paid since then, and it is slowly incorporated into prices. I would like to ask my majority colleagues, my fellow Members, that the otherwise well-sounding goals, such as the financing of health care, rather than the reduction of the government's prestige investments - say, the urgent delay of the Prime Minister's move to the Castle; this implies a cost of approximately HUF 10 billion on the same scale, so that if the Prime Minister did not want to move to the Castle as quickly as possible, then this special tax would not be necessary either - that healthcare could be provided from another source. Not that it's for tobacco dealers to break anyone's heart, so our hearts won't be broken for them. We also agree that steps should be taken to reduce smoking. At the same time, such laws destroy trust in legal certainty, and this, if in other areas, but will backfire in non-investment, by painting the image of Hungary's view among investors of a country where there is no ban on retroactive taxation, where no one's business or operation is safe, cannot therefore be regarded as an investment area. So if you are thinking about the operation of Hungary, the functioning of the economy, and you are thinking about boosting it, not only so hectically, cyclically, that industrial production is growing in one month, it has dropped by 2.6 percent in October compared to the previous month, then you should not come up with such legislation, but you should create a stable, predictable economic policy and stable, predictable legislation and legal certainty. The good governance, which the Prime Minister referred to yesterday in the fight against poverty, which unfortunately is growing, is increasing in Hungary, contrary to your opinion - ask people in their own constituency, even middle-class people are afraid of slipping - the antidote could only be created with a growing economy, the growing economy requires investors, investments, and investors can be deterred by such laws. Therefore, while the objective of the proposal cannot be disputed, steps must be taken to reduce smoking and to finance health more effectively, this bill is, in our view, harmful and we therefore do not recommend its adoption. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-09-104	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman György Szilágyi. I would like to draw your attention to the time frame of the Jobbik faction, not just for two minutes.
u2014-12-09-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Two things: one is that you again justify the bill for a noble purpose, by improving the important health situation and then, in vain, we draw your attention to the fact that these extra burdens will be imposed on consumers, so that it can increase by up to HUF 80, for example, the price of a pack of cigarettes, which will result in two things: that the black trade will grow, and that consumers will turn to cheaper and lower-quality products, which could increase the already high health risk; in this case, the health problem will not matter. The other thing that you have expressed and have said at the committee meeting - and I am saying it here because you have almost eliminated the detailed debate, so that you may be aware of those who are following this day, what has been said at the committee meeting - that health care is getting an important income here and that you can turn this money into health care. But what you are no longer interested in is the submission of an amending proposal, which will reduce the rate to be paid by those who made an investment in 2014 and thus reduce the money they can put into health care; it is no longer important here how much healthcare will receive. We asked what kind of background calculations were behind this, and they looked at how much loss of income would result in health care, and then Mr Balla said - because the LMP, we said so - that it looks like the LMP and Jobbik are touching. It is not our problem with this bill anyway, and the point is not that LMP and Jobbik are compatible, our problem is that in this bill and in this amendment it is apparent that the government and Continental are in agreement at the moment, and this bill and the amendments are clearly in the interest of a company, and this is Continental. This is also our biggest problem with this proposal and its amendments. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-09-106	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman András Schiffer, LMP. Here.
u2014-12-09-107	Thank you very much. It is a great experience to talk about another state market robbery law on the World Anti-Corruption Day, so that today you have already refused to include our anti-corruption package and our bill on the compulsory growth of politicians, and perhaps today, two opposition parties would have held a press conference on the World Anti-Corruption Day, and, obviously, by accident, the Hungarian Civil Service Telegram Office did not consider any of the events important to mediate. I bring this here because, contrary to common misconceptions, corruption is not just what is described in the Criminal Code. In a common, sociological sense, corruption is also when, say, an interest group from their laptop sends in a regulatory proposal, or they may now be more cautious and not sent from their laptops, but whispers in ears on all kinds of bypasses. But let us be clear, one section of a package of laws or a package of laws - this is what we have before us - which clearly creates a market opportunity favourable to a sphere of interest, is corruption, or, if you will, institutionalized corruption, when laws are being drawn up. There is no crime here, there are no categories of criminal law, because the law itself serves certain capitalist interests. Dear Parliament, I would like to clarify two things. One is that it is obvious - we have said this in the general debate - that we agree with the health objectives, as I think all normal people agree. I go further: we have said in the last four years that, in itself, the levying of sectoral taxes, the taxation of multinational companies producing insufferably high extra-profits in recent years, or sectors of this kind, with sectoral taxes, is not considered to be from the devil either. We also approved the introduction of the bank tax. But it's something else. His main deficiency and the biggest concern, which led me to say that not only the horse's foot hangs out, but also a complete horseguard in the new state market robbery package, is the fact that the wallet did not bring any impact assessment here. [[13.00]] And just as this is true of the bill tabled by our fellow Member Kristóf Szatmáry, this is also true of the amendment that was adopted by the Legislative Committee. It is no coincidence that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, my colleague Szilágyi and I were interested in the fact that although the Fidesz Members have assessed how this amendment will affect, let us say, Continental's business, it has not even been calculated here. How do you know this will serve the desired legal purpose? Couldn't you happen to be shot in the leg here with the amendment? It is obvious that the policy they are following is that they are gaining on profitable markets, in the first place on markets that are relatively well wrapped in communication glaze by means of state resources, by means of legislative instruments. The rule that the Legislative Committee has just adopted may be eligible, but we have no idea what effect it has on the market in itself, what effect it has on potential market robbery efforts, and we do not know what effect it has on jobs and job creation. Which party says, let's say, they're organizing a protest next to tobacco companies? It is clear that you are going first to those markets that are not judged as negative. The question of communication is clearly when they put their paws on which market segment. That is why we have said that this proposal is not about health protection objectives, it is not even about wanting to tax the sectors that have the great pales fairly, because then they would not operate with such a strange lane system. And it is not about health protection objectives, because if this proposal were to serve health protection purposes, it would have been clearly described which segment of health would otherwise be developed and would not be mentioned as a one-off levy. There is a completely false suggestion that you - at least that is what our fellow Member Szatmáry said - want to introduce this new tax only for the 2015 budget year. If the goals are really health protection, why are they not planning for the long term? Simply the whole package of laws, this proposal and the two other legislative proposals it contains are the recapitalisation of the fidesz oligarchs, the appointment of the winners of the national cynicism system is ongoing. That's what I'm talking about. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] not to protect the health of minors. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-09-108	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-09-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the basis of the views expressed in the debate, I would like to explain one more link. I very much agree with those who have said that this bill will, unfortunately, lead to an increase in black trade, because all the price increases that have been made after the original introduction of the Traffic Act will lead many people to black trade who cannot afford the tobacco products they need. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It is estimated by its modest experts that the black trade in tobacco products causes a tax deficit of between 45 and 50 billion in the budget. You are now collecting 10 billion - I say, the cost of moving to the Castle of Orbán - but you do not think of the health link that the health risk of uncontrolled products on the black market is much higher. No authority has shown that these products can be placed on the market because it has not seen them, because it is a black trade. In this way, therefore, this law will unfortunately increase health risks in such a way that it can only be estimated, due to the increased volume and uncontrolled nature of goods entering the black trade. As it is estimated that between 45 and 50 billion do not get into the tax revenue line because of the black trade, however, health negative effects will appear on the side of also uncontrolled tobacco products; doctors may be able to tell you that there may be a need for more control and a more normal regulation of tobacco trade. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-09-110	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2014-12-09-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Indeed, I must be associated with András Schiffer, that the discreet charm of anti-corruption is that we are discussing this law today, for example, because the proposals that have been submitted so far, which are linked to tobacco production, tobacco sales, and whatever glaze they are dressed in, all show a branch of corruption, because corruption can not only be created by effectively buying someone, but also by using their connections to shape the laws in Parliament so that they are clearly favourable to someone. You can deny that, it's usually true. And that's another question about how this country works, by the way. How does the country work when two opposition parties - two opposition parties, I add, the LMP and Jobbik, which cannot be accused of being involved in the free robbery of the last 25 years, have participated in the oil blurning, privatisation, the robbing of the country, the various branches of corruption - would like to hold a press conference on the occasion of World Anti-Corruption Day separately, and the independent Hungarian Telegram Office simply does not go? He won't leave because he refuses to report that these two parties can fully authentically tell us what has happened here in the last 25 years. Because although Fidesz and MSZP can stand up and say on World Anti-Corruption Day that they will change the system in our country from now on, they can say calmly, the only problem is that either actively or only assisted and tacitly, but both parties have been involved in the past 25 years: they have participated in the oil blurning; they have participated in privatisation; in both parties billionaires have grown out of nothing suddenly and enriched; in both parties, the mister system works very well, this is also seen from such laws at the moment; in both parties public procurements have taken place and worked in a very serious way, EU tenders. We could go through all these things, and any bill that would serve a clearer and more transparent public life, you will vote against it, as you voted down two days before Jobbik's proposal to make the declarations public. And it's linked to the fact that they're voting for people like this law, which is right here in front of us right now with his own amendments, which, as I've already said, greatly favors a group of companies, puts a group of companies in a position. [[György Balla: What is the group of companies?]] The group of companies that you've already put in a position when concessions were handed out in this country, and I could tell you what laws put these groups in position. But I can also say that you will also adopt and bring before this House laws that will not only facilitate, say, this anti-corruption fight, but also prevent and even open the loopholes. You can't assume otherwise: in the laws on which the budget is founded, you have brought it here before the House, and you will accept it, there is no doubt about it, there is no conflict of interest, and now the examiner can share applications with his own company, and his wife and friends and everyone else. [[Interjection: Shame!]] They're all part of it, Mr. Secretary. But that's not the shame. Do you know what shame is? The shame is that you are bringing such laws before the House and putting them in a robe where you are saying that this is what you are saying, that this is a health contribution, and then how much this health contribution will contribute to reducing the number of smokers in Hungary. Meanwhile, they're doing the opposite effect, and you don't care. So you are not interested in, let's say, increasing the health risk when these smokers consume lower quality and cheaper products. Mr Secretary of State, when uncontrolled products will come - because we have also said at a time when you have introduced the Tobacco Act, that black trade will grow to a large extent, and that black trade has grown to a great extent, everyone will recognise this, and now even more will grow in black trade, and they will not even know it. Of course, you can sit down in your chair, Mr. Secretary. You can be contemptuous with the opposition, you can be disdainful with those who have different opinions. [[András Tállai: Don't get personal.]] You can do that at the moment, because you have two thirds in your possession. [[András Tállai: You're talking nonsense!]] You forget one thing, Mr State Secretary: if we keep telling people that they are the ones who are fighting the biggest fight against corruption, and that they can fight the biggest fight, so that when they have to vote again, they will not vote for parties or politicians who are under the shadow of corruption, then they may not be sitting here in Parliament by two thirds, and this country will change. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. András Tállai: You will be pleased...]] [[13.10]]
u2014-12-09-112	Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked for the floor. You have 18 seconds. Here.
u2014-12-09-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Although my fellow Members have perfectly summarised the substance of this proposal, I would like to express my opinion very briefly for the sake of Mr Tállai State Secretary. This is to disguise proposals for health protection measures, to disguise the further promotion of friends, to disguise personalised and tailor-made legislation, this is the problem, and this is what Hungarian society rightly criticises. Thank you.
u2014-12-09-114	Thank you. I do not see any other comment, so I will ask if anyone else would like to comment, especially on the part of the governing parties. [[No signal.]] No sign of him. Then the debate is now closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Kristóf Szatmáry, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-09-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try, at the end of the debate, to get back to the original proposal with some calmness. Although there were a few sentences in the debate that I think cannot be left out, I would like to start by shooting the punch line in the context of the quasi-detailed debate where we are debating the amendment, and here it has been said from several Members that it is essentially with the amendment tabled, which is about the enforceability of tax incentives in relation to certain investments, which would have reduced this revenue, that the foot is almost out of the way, and it has been clearly shown that there would be some kind of targeted or some kind of gross intervention in the market. I would like to point out from the point of view of the authors that, despite the Commission's opinion, we do not support the proposal. So, to reassure you, there is no proposal that reduces or supports the originally planned revenue - about HUF 10-12 billion, which is actually planned to increase the budget in a one-off way, and health expenditure in particular - so even if the proposed amendment were to be economically rational in order to make certain investments depreciable from the tax, precisely because of the health of the case... [[The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] [[The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] It's one thing, I'm the authors... (Szilágyi György's intervention. ) Excuse me, my fellow Member, Parliament has certain rules, if you are asked here in the debate, I can say that as a rapporteur, we do not support this proposal, and I will propose, in agreement with the Group, that we will not support this proposal in the final vote, so that any such egress or mention of it becomes pointless from this point of view. That's why there are some things in the debate that may have gone on an ideological journey on the one hand. My fellow Member, Szilágyi, although I like criticism, I do respond to the fact that I think that what really has some discreet charm is that you, who basically need to see the world more radically than the Fidesz Members, are now defending with the MSZP that large international companies should not pay such a special tax as possible. [[György Balla: That's right! That's what you're doing.]] I'd put that in parentheses, and I think it's a weak swing. [[György Szilágyi: Sure...]] on the Jobbik side and not on a trend, but in any case, it has a more discreet charm. Mr Congressman, I don't know, I think anyone was talking about institutionalized corruption here, but I think that democracy has certain rules. Whatever laws we make, be it the tax law, be it the special tax, be it a medical law, the government's purpose is, of course, to make someone more burdened, less burdened. What we need to look at is that any law we make is the basis of democracy, that we are empowered, by two thirds, by a majority, in any way, to consider laws that affect people's lives in a significant way. I undertake that the taxation of this law in the range submitted is about, yes, there is a world trend, which is also true in Hungary, that two or three major international companies dominate most of the tobacco industry. The tax was established that those who otherwise cover most of the market in a given way should pay the multi-tax. I think that, in this regard, Jobbik and I have in some respects the same opinion. On that point, I would like to say once more, and perhaps I would like to ask myself that everyone pays taxes. If you have read the proposal, to different degrees and lanes, but the tax is paid to a certain extent by all players in the market, even by those you call certain close-ups or buddies, they also contribute by paying this tax to everyone who belongs in this area. And why it is a one-off tax, and this may also be true of the black trade: it starts as a one-off tax because next year's budget has one-off health expenses that hopefully will not come up later - that is the debt settlement of hospitals. The 2014 budget, which has now been adopted for 2015, set the objective of eliminating the debt of hospitals for the next year, preferably for the long term. This is a one-off edition, to which, among other things, this 10-12 billion taxes from tobacco companies can contribute, and this is also true, hopefully, to express the will of the law-makers, that this will not come down in the black economy, because we can basically talk about the growth of the black economy if we assume that this is in any event fully reflected in prices. If it does not appear in prices and there is some communication with market participants in this regard, there is some analysis that, since it is a one-off tax, competition in this market is quite serious, it is unlikely that tobacco companies would withdraw or even raise their prices to pay a one-off tax with drastic price increases. By the way, once again, the proposal basically refers to paying not consumers, but tobacco producers and traders, so we have every hope that it will not appear in prices because of the one-off. I would not want to return to the detailed debate to remedy the damage and problems caused by smoking. I think that the proposal can be undertaken; not only can it be undertaken, but it is also a good proposal, because it is trying to ask for a one-off contribution from a sector which is, to a large extent, a source and beneficiary of a very, very bad public health process, tobacco damage and related health expenditure. In view of the fact that, once again, we do not support the amendment tabled, even if it had an economic basis, but given the sensitivity and health of the matter, we would not propose an amendment that reduces revenue, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-09-116	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place next week. This brings us to the end of our agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Márta Demeter applied for a speech after today's agenda:.The security of Hungary is important only in words to the government? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-09-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán, I'm sure we remember him talking about the importance of NATO obligations in Vilnius, and I would like to quote it quite precisely - he said that security expenditure is now a priority. The big problem with that is that unfortunately we don't see them. I would like to say that it is particularly positive, and I think it is perfectly natural for Hungarian soldiers to participate in countless international missions and practices, where they always perform outstandingly without exception, we should be proud of them, we should be proud of their performance, and they are an excellent representative of Hungary, and they have incredible practical knowledge. I would like to point out that this is absolutely natural, and the MSZP has already supported all such international engagements, and will, of course, continue to do so in the future. [[13.20]] But I think that this fund, because as NATO members, it is essential that we take part in international practices, it is essential that we also increase interoperability with the Member States. However, it is a sad fact that the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces will not improve in 2015 either, and the financial conditions will not improve despite the Prime Minister's words. As a result, we should not ignore where we start, as in the last four years the Hungarian government has robbed the Hungarian Defence Office and its operation of a total annual budget of nearly HUF 250 billion. The 2015 budget proposal can be examined in a number of respects with regard to the defence chapter. I think that if we look at defence expenditure and judge their value, and how much they help us to function effectively, then we have two approaches. One is the traditional method of calculation, which is accepted by all NATO Member States and worldwide, to determine what these expenditures look like as a percentage of GDP planned. While this was planned for 0.79 per cent of GDP in 2014, in 2015 it was 0.75 per cent, which shows a clear decrease. We can look at the possibilities of defence and expenditure in other ways. We can see if, by the way, if the government provides a surplus to the operation of the defence, it is actually a substantial source for improving operational capacity and what it is used for. If we look at this calculation method, we can say that next year the government will provide only HUF 1.5 billion for basic tasks. That's the surplus you're providing. I think that this is a very small amount, especially if we look at the withdrawal of funds in recent years from the defence budget. This is already, I think, numerology, when the Minister of Defence tries to explain this by, by the way, counting a minimum increase in revenue - and counting the additional and secured resources - it determines this as a percentage of the total expenditure, but this does not substantially improve functionality. So we can see this from the 2015 budget proposal. And what is extremely important is that the defense minister promised HUF 20 billion to develop the papal base airport. It claims that, for technical reasons, this amount cannot be seen in budget 2015. We would very much like to see what source this is insured from; and what are these technical reasons why this is not visible? I think we can only see this from the data listed here, that Hungary is also doing extremely badly in terms of defence spending, and while the government promises everything in terms of words, it does not fulfil the promises at home. I would also like to reflect on the events of recent years and months, and stress once again that the Hungarian Defence Office can never be an instrument of party political propaganda, nor is it intended to be a propaganda tool that tries to maintain the Prime Minister's non-existent authority, so keep this in mind, and think again for the sake of Hungary's security, and provide a source of substantial improvement in the functioning of the defence. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2014-12-09-118	Member Ander Balázs applied for a speech after the next agenda:. The government finally described the southern parts of South Transdanubia? It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2014-12-09-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When Mór Jókai visited Kies Somogyország more than a hundred years ago, he was shocked by the conditions, he said that such trips could not even be in Bosnia. Well, it's been over a hundred years, and we're actually in the same place. If, let's say, one of our current prominent writers were to visit Bán Mór Somogy County, he could also say that such trips could not even be in Bosnia. However, Barcs, the natural centre of the southern part of the county, was able to rise slightly from this disadvantage at that time with effective state aid. He was able to take advantage of the disadvantage that the Dráva was only able to sail to Barcs, which is why Barcs could then become a transhipment place, an intermodal node, logistics center, perhaps recently. Accordingly, railways were built, the port developed, and by the turn of the century three thousand car capacity-accompanied warehouses were lined up on the shore of the Drava. After the first steamer appeared in the port of Barcs in 1856, the trade, freight, and, in fact, two-and-a-half times before the century, Osijek's trade and freight traffic, now with almost 100 thousand inhabitants, was unbelievable.In 1885 there was a railway between Verőce and Barcs, and accordingly a railway bridge was turned over to Drává. Unfortunately, we can't find any trace of that by now. Between 1890 and 1910 the construction of railway lines of local interest was again stimulated, as in 1868 the first railway line approved by the government after the first compromise, which connected the cities of Barcs and Pécs, could be supplemented with additional network elements, as wing lines were extended to Kaposvár, Somogyszob and to Sellye. By now, they have also been destroyed or stolen, or the state's rural destruction policy has caused them to pause, shut down traffic here. I have often stressed that for Barcs, who has lost at least 1,500 inhabitants since the change of regime - as there is a mass exodus of young people from here too - it would be a very, very powerful tool to break out of a cumulative disadvantage if, in addition to rail and port development, the government also paid more attention to the development of roads. That was a promise. Last year at the government meeting in Spies, Viktor Orbán personally promised that the highway M60 would be driven from Pécs to Barcs. Well, the thing is, it looks like it was a baseless promise again, you could say that we're dealing with a kind of government gang. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Shame!]] On 27 October, János Fónagy, Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Development portfolio, replied that, indeed, this will be implemented by the government, and that this investment will be completed by 2018, and we could hear sentences from the Secretary of State about other fine plans. However, according to the government decree published in the latest Hungarian Gazette, the transport development ideas have been withdrawn, so once again the people of South Somogy can have a huge disappointment, as we are used to: muffled speech, constantly changing concepts. It is fair to ask why South Somogy and the people who live here do not get more attention; why do they condemn the people who live here? Otherwise, I would like to read a complainant's letter from a mayor in the region in connection with this. He wrote: I also heard the rejoinder, which concerned the construction of the motorway. Even then, I felt like a fairy tale was the answer. As mayor, I have said my opinion on a number of occasions about the total disregard for South Transdanubia and the complete elimination of equal opportunities. I have to give the truth to the head architect of the county, who had a vision that by 2050 this region would be completely depopulated and extinct. The place of the villages will be covered with forest and bush. I feel for some time that political leadership has been consciously doing this to us, not just the present, the previous ones. In such a hopeless, inhuman, humiliating situation, families have never lived in the region. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Intercoms: That's right!]] [[13.30]]
u2014-12-09-120	The last time I asked to speak after the agenda was Mr István Ikotity. It's an address. I give you the floor.
u2014-12-09-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to draw attention to the importance of everyday energy saving, and I would like to make this clear through parliamentary examples. Today, December 9th, as we approach the winter solstice, the nights are getting longer, obviously breaking away from nature, our way of life is necessarily such that we need lighting. We can do this in different ways. In traditional household use, we can do it with untimely, energy-spent devices, such as the technology of very, very old tungsten filament bulbs. Their lifetime is about a thousand hours, and only 2-5 percent of the energy is used to produce light, while the rest is released in the form of heat. Unfortunately, it's the most common light-emitting device. In this building, too, there are a very large number of these tungsten filament bulbs: corridors, stairwells, other rooms. Fortunately, compact fluorescent lamps are becoming more common in the conference rooms, which are the majority. In this courtroom in which we are, there have been light bulbs with a consumption of 20 watts each for a long time, 1032 pieces can be seen in this room. These light sources, compact fluorescent lamps, were developed in the 1980s, to be more precise: they were used in everyday use and consumed only a quarter to a fifth of what is a conventional bulb. Their life span is much higher than the one thousand-hour bulb mentioned above, six to fifteen thousand hours. In addition to all these consumptions, they emit similar brightness, of course. Their further advantage is their durability. It's worth looking around. They don't see burnt light bulbs. This is not only the result of the hard work of the workers here, but also the fact that they are significantly more durable. Unfortunately, Chinese products and domestic products could be a real problem, and we often draw attention to this, even though this technology, the technology of compact fluorescent lamps, is very problematic both in the case of production and in the case of waste management, since materials that are highly polluting are used. Another disadvantage of these light sources is that they generate UV light and transform their enclosures, which, if they are damaged, a significant amount of UV light is added to the space. It's obviously a bad thing to do. However, there is also a third technology, which is becoming more and more common fortunately, and this is LED technology. We know that this is a diode that emits light, and we also know that it was developed about 50 years ago at the same time as the laser, but this technology was not yet suitable for everyday use. This was done in 1994, three Japanese scientists, one of whom lives in the United States, by name: Akasaki Isamu, Amano Hirosi and Nakamura Suji, who received the Nobel Prize for this discovery 20 years later this year, which is the development of blue LEDs. It is important to know that LEDs that are in everyday use emit blue light, which is transformed into yellow and white, possibly blue light by means of a special fluorescent yellow fluorin layer. In 1999, the first LED light source of 1 Watts was made for domestic use. I've almost ruined it myself, it's important to mention it, not to know how it gets into public speaking, but it's not about bulbs. The LED, because it doesn't glow, it doesn't burn, so it's a light bulb, a lamp, actually. Obviously, the Hungarian language can cope with this, we have seen in many cases, such as doors and windows, the term "door shutter" is a very ugly term, since it has an equivalent, but these lamps cannot be called a light bulb or a light bulb, because they are not. We'll find out how it gets in the vocabulary. Its consumption is eighty-tenths of the standard bulb, and it has a life span of 10-30 thousand hours. Obviously, the goods are much more expensive, unfortunately, but obviously this price is decreasing and they are able to emit UV-free light. I said their disadvantage, because I also have to draw attention to disadvantages in the pursuit of objectivity, that the goods are now even higher, but in the long term it will pay off. In fact, they have a disadvantage that few people know: because it is a blue light, it can easily be, they are now researching that it has an adverse effect on man's biological clock. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I turned to the Director-General of the Office with a question to find out exactly how to use it. I'll let you know how this goes in the House of Parliament. Thank you.
u2014-12-09-122	This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 8:00. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 1:35 p.m.]]
