u2014-05-12-0	Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Lajos Szűcs will be notaries of my assistance. Dear Parliament, I declare that the District Court of Miskolc, Member of Parliament Miklós Simon, Jászberény District Court János Pócs Member of Parliament, István Józsa Parliamentary Representative of the Central District Court of Pest, and the Baja District Court have initiated the suspension of the immunity of Tamás Harangozó Member of Parliament for the receipt of a private indictment. I've issued the requests to the immunity committee. Mr Miklós Simon, Mr Zsolt Szabó, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács and Mr Gyula Vantara informed me that they had formed the parliamentary group of the Members of the Kisgazda. According to the house rule, the formation of the group does not affect their membership of the faction. Dear Parliament, Today, Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group, applied for a speech before the agenda: " What are you doing? ' The title is given below. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-12-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On Saturday, after a quarter of a century, the First Prime Minister without a government program was elected by the Parliament. You said you'd keep going. What are they doing? In the last four years, GDP has increased by 2.1 percent in Hungary, while the EU average is 4.4 percent, the Romanian average is 5.3 percent, the Slovak 9 percent, the Polish 12 percent in the same period, the Bulgarian average is almost 4 percent. If you continue to do so, Hungary will be a poor house in Europe by 2020. What are they doing? Government debt is about 80 percent, just like when you took over the government bar, while you stole 3000 billion from the private pension fund savings, so that's how much debt you've accumulated for the next generation. The Paks loan agreement is another 3000 billion plus debt burden, so overall there is a threat that the public debt will actually be able to jump above 100 percent of GDP, so we demand, among other things, the immediate termination of the Paks contract. What are they doing? They did not even start closing income pumps, as the offshore business is still booming in Hungary, they prevented the investigation of chained VAT fraud, but they conclude strategic partnership agreements with large multi-companies, which pump huge revenues through transfer prices, and the farmer is free from 1 May before the land speculation. What are they doing? After all, since 2010, there have been no more living jobs, but there are more and more workers in poor Hungary. The fact is that the minimum wage has been raised by 38 percent, the net wage increase has been 10 percent in the last four years. The tax wedge has risen, the fourth highest in Hungary within the OECD member countries. Today, Hungarian people work more for less money, as the new Labour Code also allowed overtime money, allowances, working time increases, freedom is reduced. Dear Parliament, From 2009 to 2012, the income of the upper income tithe increased by almost 18 percent, while the lower tithe has been steadily deteriorating since 2007 and has decreased by 6 percent over the last four years. Ten years ago, the income difference was sevenfold in Hungary, over the past four years it has increased ninefold. In Hungary, the proportion of people living in poverty and deprivation is the highest in the European Union, 26 percent, and Greece is the second 20%. Poverty has increased by 4 percent in the EU, with 14 percent in Hungary. It is hardly possible to think that the income situation will fundamentally change that two thirds of the earners in Hungary are earning an average salary of HUF 225 thousand, since until the national economy produces added value, Hungarian wages will not be on the trail of European wages. But how would there be a change when the share of education in terms of GDP is constantly falling? In 2003, it was almost 6 percent, in 2011 4.3 percent. Higher education has been deducted from higher education for many years, with the share of higher education as a percentage of GDP below 1.5 per cent. Hungary has become the country of the 300,000 public workers in the last four years, with a total of 17 000 people from public work in 2013 and only 6 percent of those who were able to enter the primary labour market. Hungary is 24th among the 28 EU Member States in terms of employment and an even more alarming trend among young people: today 12 percent of young people are early school leavers, even though the target would be 10 percent in the EU by 2020. Land concentration has increased over the last four years, most of the agricultural subsidies are absorbed by the top 10 percent. What we see is that while migration is growing, the proportion of young people who want to leave this country has increased by 2.5 times in a few years, and the number of people working in London is slowly improving labour statistics. If you continue to do this, the Hungarian society will be a community-based society, and Hungary will remain a assembly country without grandchildren. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-2	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-05-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, What we heard from you was a delayed campaign speech, I think, since you could have said that a month, two months, three months ago. We have completely heard back from the LMP faction leader, which in any narrower circle [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Has anything changed?]] It could have been said at a LMP campaign meeting, but the voters also rewarded it with a five-point-tenth of a percentage. You are here in Parliament, but it was the Fidesz-KDNP that was clearly [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the program?]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the program?]] to a greater extent, and the continuation of the government's work over the past four years has been clearly supported. (Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the program?) So what you said, the voters gave an opinion a long time ago, and although they criticized Fidesz-KDNP so much, we were entrusted with the continuation of government. Were you aware - you always shout out where the program is, where the program is - the voters are voting for what when they vote for Fidesz-KDNP? I think they were fully aware, because in four years they have seen what the policy of Fidesz-KDNP is. [[13.10]] You're fond of saying it now and you've been saying in the last few days that LMP is fighting against multi-interest. If you look at even one measure, let's say the reduction of the rent, it was a difficult measure for large public utility companies, which were mainly owned by international, multinationals, and it was a positive measure for ten million Hungarian citizens. There wasn't a government in the previous few cycles that dared to do so. It is nice for you to say such words, but then stand up and say that in this respect, Fidesz-KDNP's policy perfectly meets the expectations of what your voters say, because it was as beneficial to LMP's voters as it was to others. In the last 25 years, Hungarian voters have heard very, very much about electoral promises and electoral programmes, a lot of people have promised and, let's say, not only promised elections in Ferenc Gyurcsány's time, but also in the period between the elections, they put in more and more programmes every 2-3 months as ideas for the future, but not much of them have been realized. At the same time, citizens have seen what has happened in this country over four years, and clearly not the LMP or other opposition parties have been entrusted with the possibility of forming a government, but they have said yes to continuing. Of course, it may also be that you have an election program in detail that the future is green; this term can certainly tell you a lot - some of whom have the future green and white, by the way - but it is somehow little if you want to say a thorough election programme. However, we can see that the LMP did not say that we would continue; you are the one who was sitting here four years ago, but your party and your faction have also undergone a great renewal, so this kind of policy may not have been promised to continue. As regards the events of the past four years, which we would like to continue, you have again spoken rather leniently about the public work programme, as have many of your opposition fellows about public workers. You said that some of the public workers were already in the market. But I would like to ask you who you think these people are, Congressman, would have given jobs on the market. If you, say, an entrepreneur, do that, and you have a company of 20, and you have a 21st job, and 30 of them apply to that one place, 10 of them have been unemployed in the last few months, 10 of them within a year, and 10 of them have been unemployed for 2-3-4 or 5 years, which would you have hired? Obviously, you would have hired someone who had less unemployment, because you are more aware of what new technologies are, what new administration mechanisms are, and your work experience is fresher. Here, people who would not otherwise have had the opportunity to get a job in the market, because in an over-subscription, all employers preferred those who had recently become unemployed. So when you're talking about any small number that those people have got a real job, that's what I think it's a success. The fact that those who work in public works are now not only receiving subsidies from the state for free, but are doing something for the community to receive the same salary and much more, since they are not receiving 30-40 thousand forints or even twenty or a few thousand forints, but a public worker has an average salary of 70,000 forints, so it is more worthwhile for him to participate in this program. But there's a lot of other things to say. You mentioned the minimum wage increase, the payment of IMF debt, which serves Hungary's financial independence, the protection of the Hungarian land, which continues to be guaranteed, and we have taken into account the most thorough legal options in other European countries, the wage increase started in the public sector in terms of teacher wage increases. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we could continue to see how much we want to continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-12-4	Mr. Péter Harrach, representing KDNP, also spoke before the agenda: "The Political Culture. " Here you go.
u2014-05-12-5	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So at the beginning of the parliamentary term, I welcome you, the new ones and the old ones. If I look through this meeting room, I see signs of change and permanence at the same time. The number of groups has changed, as the number of representatives has decreased by half, but the proportion of fractions and faces seem to have changed less, so there is both stability and change. And if you look at the phenomena, I would like to draw your attention to one more phenomenon a little further away: we all experienced when the day of the vote came, that political parties increased. Some say that this is democracy, others say - sorry for the expression - that it offers opportunities to con men and idiots. I think that we should definitely look at the conditions of departure, but perhaps we should go a little deeper and say a few words about political culture. I believe that a positive and negative phenomenon must be highlighted. The culture of hatred flourished in public life. Some spit in the square, some spit on the Internet, and others on the political stage. The reasons are different, of course. Obviously, some people are dealing with the internal problem of personality - or were born or so - and others may be paid penners and personal demeanor, and others are frustrated about something, whether the results of the election or the inconvenience caused to each other at the time of the campaign, and we know that frustration always causes aggression. But for a country, there is a phenomenon of political culture that is indispensable, and this government has a firm but calm attitude. You must set a safe course for the country and its inhabitants. This determination must come from a stable majority of governments, and I feel that there is every possibility of doing so in this cycle as well. In addition to culture, the objective of this cycle deserves some thought: if it is to be summarized in a sentence, we obviously say that strengthening the economy and ordering society, enforcing justice and social standards. Allow me to make a comment on a current issue. I think we live in a world where standards, traditional values, respect for each other are particularly important. There are strange phenomena in this world. When a man says he's a woman, and he happens to have a beard, we might think it's funny, and until then, maybe it's okay. Trouble begins when positive discrimination is involved in this bearded woman. [[13.20]] Perhaps some specific points should be mentioned among the objectives. I believe that the safety of raising children must be increased and strengthened, and this is partly a question of home creation and partly a question of reconciliation between work and family. Protecting those in need is another issue that we need to take action on. This is obviously also the issue of foreign exchange legitimists; but the family bankruptcy that we have already initiated and we hope will be carried out shortly is another issue that we hope will be implemented this year. The reason why this initiative is popular is because, as I noticed, other political parties have also come upon this idea. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-12-6	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-05-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, On 6 April, voters also expressed their views on style issues, a clear opinion, and neither extreme right-wing or extreme left-wing statements were highly trusted, but indeed a reliable, determined and public-interested Fidesz-KDNP policy with the greatest interest in solving people's everyday problems, whether it be a foreign currency credit problem, job creation, family management in the family-type tax system, not street aggression, hysteria or hatred against individual minorities or individual ethnic groups. We do not believe in incitement to hatred, we believe in important goals, we believe in important national matters. On the other hand, however, the political culture was based on hatred, hatred and envy, on which whole campaigns could be built, even long before the campaign period, it could be a sculpture decision, a kick in the head, against which everyone would be separated, of course, but then it would send its organisers to Parliament, and we could talk about other events in Kossuth Square in recent weeks, spitting and other things. It was possible to have a stylish policy that mocked the other side, which called the peace procession a "frog march" or a congregation of sheep, and it could indeed be on the other side and on the Fidesz-KDNP side to talk about goals and visions without personalisation. In this style, citizens could be intimidated by the fact that the new electoral law system, such as the campaign amendment that said that it was not possible to advertise in commercial media for money, and to spend enormous wealth on the ability to broadcast more advertisements on large commercial channels, will greatly reduce electoral participation, or other public-wallet-friendly instruments that have appeared and reduced party spending in the new campaign financing system. But all these hystericalisations, all these rumours didn't work, because the attendance was about the same as in other elections; some of them had fewer, some had more, so they brought about the average that the number of participants in the previous elections had. They also said during the first half of the cycle that Fidesz-KDNP intends to shape the electoral system for its own benefit so that only a few parties can start to make it difficult for small parties to start. Then, in the campaign, we heard the opposite from the parties: there they were just saying how many different couples start, which is in the interests of Fidesz-KDNP. So we have heard that the many parties are good for Fidesz-KDNP, and the few parties are good for Fidesz-KDNP; it may be that the opposition parties are in the debate with the voters, and not the number of parties, but the credibility of the political group, the party, decide who the citizens support and who they do not. It was also an important element of style in the campaign, if you look at political culture, or in the last four years, that many people thought that they could gain domestic political benefits if domestic politics was achieved not only outside Hungary, but also outside Hungary's borders, mainly in Brussels or in other international organizational headquarters. However, I think that the outcome of the elections is a lesson for everyone, for everyone who wrote the Tavares report, who leafleted against Hungary in the corridor of the European Parliament, that this kind of policy, which is about Hungary's expiry, which is about the expression of internal politics in foreign policy, does not bring any political advantage here at home. The Hungarian electorate does not reward the person who, in order to gain power, is allowed to discredit the country, who considers himself more important than the national community, and does not consider the damage of up to 10 million people to be a small price to put himself at the heart of politics or at least in the seat of the Prime Minister of Parliament. I hope you all heard this message. However, it was equally irresponsible in its style when someone in the Hungarian Parliament gave the opportunity, with their anti-Jewish, anti-Gypsy or other passwords, to attack Hungary abroad and provide ammunition for those who were really Hungary's opponents. As for style and culture: whether I watch the inaugural or more precisely the Saturday session, when the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party withdrew after the vote, after the Prime Minister's candidate became Prime Minister or the non-congratulation party that said all along in the campaign that he represented Europeanism, Westernity, that party could not congratulate me. Somehow, Angela Merkel and Barack Obama were able to congratulate Viktor Orbán on his election as Prime Minister, not the President of the Hungarian Socialist Party, even though their European group leader was here, and he did. I hope that European politics will, however, be wider in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-12-8	This is the moment to give the floor to the group of the MSZP, particularly to Member József Tobias, who will address his speech before the agenda entitled "Part of a complex solution for private bankruptcy. "
u2014-05-12-9	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For the fifth year, Fidesz and KDNP have promised to establish rules for family bankruptcy. You have been talking for five years about what Mr. Péter Harrach was just talking about. Since 2009, you've been talking about the fact that someday you're going to be submitting the Family Bankruptcy Act. That hasn't happened to this day. You speak, but you do not act in that sense. Yet the creation of this law has never been as topical as it is today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that there was an election on 6 April may have been a political arrangement for today's sittings, but it has not resolved the social problems. In the same way, hundreds of thousands of families now pay 100 thousand forints a year to the state register with Europe's highest VAT, orbán taxes, chips tax, telephone tax and associates. Hundreds of thousands of families can't pay their bills, 1.4 million people can't live in a properly heated apartment. Hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange families pay unbearably high payments. Today, the forint is 20 percent lower than the currency it was in 2010. You, ladies and gentlemen, instead of providing real solutions to the debt of families, to provide meaningful help to foreign exchange credents in trouble outside their own faults, have again come forward temporarily, with a symptomatic treatment of their bill submitted, and otherwise they are waiting idly - where is the freedom fight? - what they decide in Brussels, where they wait for the Curia to decide, while the solution has been on their table for five years. According to you, the Hungarian Socialist Party has submitted its bill on the private institution four times in the last four years, which helps precisely those who, in a comprehensive way, without their own fault, are in a situation of losing their jobs, so to speak, with a radical decline in their income, to help those who are unable to finance their debts at the established level. To date, the introduction of the private institution of bankruptcy depends, depending on the creditor's goodwill, on whether or not the debtor's income, family, existentiality is on the intent of the debtor to settle the debt. The proposal, which is before the Parliament today, gives the debtor and the creditor a better chance of reaching an agreement, but by giving the debtor and his family the opportunity to start over and return to the current system, especially as a tax-paying citizen. [[13.30]] The aim of the introduction of the debt settlement procedure is precisely to hold on to these people, these families, not to be land runners, and not to be members of the camp of the homeless society. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last few weeks and days, you have spoken several times about the fact that the change of regime can be considered to be completed, the President of the Republic said, the Prime Minister said that he has also said in the walls of this House. I would like to say that just because you consider political change to be completed, we are all indebted to the end of the social change, and there is no way to talk so pretentiously about something that we've already finished if they've only finished themselves. Today, four million people are waiting for the social change to be completed, and it may not be the only and most rewarding solution to the private failure institution, but part of it is a very important part of the complex solution with which we have debated several times in the last four years between the walls of this House. It is therefore time for action to be taken, and I ask you to put this House on the agenda, even in the same way as the legislation of the current moratorium, in order to come up with a joint compromise proposal for those who, after 6 April, expect the majority of the walls of this House to be given substantial measures and effective assistance to those involved. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-10	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2014-05-12-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have good news and bad news, so I could start. The good news is that the Christian Democratic People's Party has drawn up this proposal, and there will also be progress in this spring course in this proposal, you can be sure of that, Congressman. The bad news is that even this won't help the MSZP's two-billion-dollar debt problem. [[József Tobias: Is this part of the political culture?]] because not only citizens, not only the country, but also their own party have been indebted [[József Tobias: My God!]] And now it seems that they may have experienced the nature of this problem on their own, so they realize that it can be an important issue for citizens when designing everyday or every month management plans. If they'd known that, maybe you'd have supported the possibility of redemption. Then they talked about the great disadvantage this would have for the banks; that this would collapse the Hungarian banking system; what negative consequences this would have for financial institutions, and that they did not take the position, like Fidesz-KDNP, that 170 thousand families could be saved from the danger of indulging, from the horror of constantly changing payments, but that you took the first aspects of the banks and not the concerns of families and citizens. But if we go further back, we can also see, Mr honourable Member, that this problem, the 140-fold increase in foreign currency loans, is, however, a period between 2004 and 2010, when, for political reasons, you have destroyed the supported forint lending system of the first Orbán government, which has enabled a large number of families to start up and establish a first home or a larger home for themselves. Compared to this, you have encouraged people to take on foreign currency loans in any event, which allowed some growth of the economy to be maintained for a period of time. It is true that later we will suffer much more damage and the country will drink it, but you have allowed it irresponsiblely. The Swiss central bank has warned you that this is going to be a problem, but you remain deaf to this warning. In Austria, Poland or Serbia, these products have been banned, but you have released them, and if I look at high interest rates or look at legislation here in Parliament - I mean legislation between 2002 and 2004 - all citizens have been pushed in this direction. This caused this huge problem, one part of which the Fidesz-KDNP government was able to cope with in its first cycle, because 170,000 families, as I said, were out of it with the end-payment, and there are more in the system of the exchange barrier. The National Asset Manager has also helped many, but we have not solved this problem yet - not just us, but the whole society, or at least its part with responsibility in this direction. So we still have a job to do in this cycle. We are trying to fulfil our first task today, and we can extend the eviction moratorium today by way of a House Rule, if the opposition parties contribute to this, which we have reason to trust. And for those who are already in the final stage of the enforcement procedure, they are threatened by the horror of eviction and could become homeless, these families, now we can save them from this danger if they are currency-credited indefinitely, but only in the case of foreign exchange-credited persons, we push the eviction moratorium from the previous extended period for an indefinite period in the future. You have often accused the previous government of not consulting enough, not preparing its proposals, but, at the same time, at the same time, we have given banks and debtors time and opportunity to work out the construction that is acceptable to banks, acceptable to debtors, and, of course, if the two parties can reach an agreement, it will be supported by the State. This consultation, which you have asked for in many other proposals, has not resulted in results in months. This was followed by the fact that we expected the decision to be taken by the Curia, but the Curia also pointed to the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg and asked him whether, in some respects, he had any decision-making competence, whether the Luxembourg European Court of Justice at all allowed him to express his opinion in them. Well, the court and the European Commission took a very similar position to the government's position and said that the Curia did have the opportunity to do so, and that the Curia gave the Hungarian Curia the opportunity to do so either on the issues of unilateral amendment of the contract, especially on the issue of information - so that it would be a real and understandable information - or on the question of the exchange rate gap. We hope that this decision will be made as soon as possible. Parliament's decision to solve problems that have not been resolved by the Curia may follow. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and will be followed by KDNP's family bankruptcy proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-12-12	The leader of the Jobbik Group, Mr Gábor Vona, also came forward to speak before the agenda. Here you go. His speech " Respect for the Hungarians! " he's going to tell you.
u2014-05-12-13	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Since this is the first right-wing comment in the current term, allow me, on behalf of my party, to thank those whom we can be here again from whose confidence we can fight for Hungary and for Hungarian national interests. On Saturday, the Prime Minister gave his campaign speech in the EU, but he did not say a word about the two most sensitive social problems, foreign exchange loans and the land issue, although it would have been very nice to hear what the specific government programme was to manage the two areas of crisis, because we have now reached the moment and the point that Minister Sándor Fazekas himself said and called on Hungarian society to protect the Hungarian land. Oops! A few months ago, when we said that in Parliament, the Minister said that this was a cheap heat wave from Jobbik, and now it turns out that this earth traffic law is not so concrete. I do not want to jump this long, but I would also like to say, in relation to the Prime Minister's speech, how I see our relationship with the European Union in general. In Hungarian politics, I believe that there are three groups to evaluate our membership of the European Union. There are, on the one hand, the Euromazochists group, the left and the MSZP, who like to keep us in a chain in Brussels, if Brussels talks badly to Hungary and sometimes punishes them thoroughly - they enjoy it. [[Zoltán Lukács: Short chain!]] There are the euronaivs - these are you, the Fidesz Group - who think that Brussels can be misled by misconception, misconception, tickle-tickle, and delay. And there is the third group - this is what we are - who say that Hungary has been deceived by assisting the MSZP and Fidesz governments, because Hungary was not recruited into this community to give us money, to catch up Hungary, but because their competitiveness required our cheap labour force, and the sale of their products required Hungary's ten million-dollar market. This Eurorealism, this reality, you are not the Eurorealists, we are the Eurorealists, and Jobbik does not want Hungary out of the European Union, unlike all kinds of MSZP and Fidesz propaganda. [[Zoltán Lukács: We'd wait a month or two!]] Jobbik says that the Treaty of Accession should be amended. We are pro-European, but we do not see Europe and the future of Europe in a bearded woman. We do not believe in the European United States, which the MSZP openly and clearly support, and you are one-sided, but clearly virtually also. We believe in a Europe of nations, where nation states can preserve their sovereignty and the Treaty of Accession amendment without which Hungary's ten-year run will continue. Because what really happened here? What happened was that the foreign capitalist came here with his competitive advantage, his cheap credit, his capital power, and he destroyed the Hungarian economy, he destroyed Hungarian companies, factories, factories, businesses, and the governments of the country have spread out their hands to assist him throughout. Of course, they promised to save small and medium-sized enterprises, but they did nothing to say that this would conflict with EU competition freedom. And the Western man laughed at his hand, and said, "Do Hungarians need the European Union?" Well, you're gonna get it. [[13.40]] While Viktor Orbán claims that we are the third most industrialized nation in Europe, which is an amazing slide, the reality is that our factories, our plants, have ceased in the past period, and foreigners have not bought up our plants, our factories to operate them, but rather to destroy them and get rid of the Hungarian competition. This is how the Hungarian market became theirs, and the production capacity they brought here was brought here only to make use of our cheap labour force in a relatively close place for their competitiveness. Therefore, the current situation is the following, ladies and gentlemen. In Hungary, Hungarians buy Western products at Western prices in Western-owned business centres, work in Western-based land or in Western-owned factories, expect Western-level work from them, essentially all Western, only their income and wages are not Western, Hungarian. And here comes the Barba trick, because Viktor Orbán does not talk about it in Brussels. Back home, he plays the freedom fighter, puts it on the billboard, saying, " Respect the Hungarians! " But someone in Brussels has heard Viktor Orbán say that it was enough to say that the Hungarian Prime Minister [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Interjection in the same place: You're misdirecting me! Don't lie to me. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Whether he or his ancestors are going to let him or not be eviscerated [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Have you ever heard the Hungarian Prime Minister say that we will not allow the Hungarian workforce to be eviscerated? ! On the contrary! [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] On the contrary, he argues and attracts foreign businesses by saying that the Hungarian labour force is cheap. That's exactly the opposite of what your prime minister is doing. Shame on you! They have not heard of this, and the Hungarian Prime Minister did not speak of the Hungarian land, but he only plays the war of freedom here at home. Back home, he's playing freedom fight, but there's no freedom fight in Brussels. We say that Hungarians need respect, yes, respect. But we also need justice, equal wages for the same work, we need sovereignty, and we need livelihoods, because for the past 24 years the Hungarian people have been deprived of their livelihoods on the altar of accession to the European Union, and the MSZP governments and your governments have assisted in this. Shame on you! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-12-14	Before I once again give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, I would ask the MPs to keep in mind that not all questions are to be answered. [[There's a lot of information from the Fidesz ranks.]] I want you to keep that in mind for the future. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-05-12-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You started your speech, and it was also entitled " Respect the Hungarians! " Obviously, Stephen Pásztor is included in this circle. At your European Parliament leader's press conference yesterday, he did not condemn his former fellow Member, his fellow politician. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! That's right! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] who, not only did not give respect to István Pásztor, who, by the way, has many virtues and virtues in his past, for which he deserves a great deal of respect from the community of the Hungarian nation, so not only did he not give him respect, but he went beyond the limits of disrespect when he caused hysteria against him there, and they spit on him, and spoke abusive words to István Pásztor. After that, your European Parliament leader will not be delimited, he will not apologize, he will not say that I do not identify with this, I cannot take on a community. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Interjection in the same place: Don't lie. That's not true. That's not true.]] We are not on a political platform, but he saves, excuses, calls him his friend, calls him his fellow warrior, and he does not feel any questions, he does not feel any sentence that he should say to satisfy István Pásztor and the whole Hungarian political culture. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Interjection in the same place: No, it's not true!]] When you stand up here at Parliament's first regular session and say, " Respect the Hungarians! " Then we would have expected you to call on your European Parliament leader for something after all. Either to show respect to István Pásztor, to apologize, not to identify with our fellow Member of Parliament at one time, or to distance himself from him, or to say that he is going with him, but he is not going to the European Parliament, because he is going to give Hungarians respect and to be united and communion with the spit-outs, this cannot be done at the same time. I thought you were going to start today by following István Pásztor on behalf of Jobbik, as you may have done in the media earlier. [[Dr. István Apáti: You're halftime!]] and he also says something about Krisztina Morvai, whether she can be the list leader of Jobbik in the European Parliament. This is what I would have expected from you as the first sentence of the article " Respect for the Hungarians! " under the heading " [[First of Novak: Let's hear the answer.]] And as far as Jobbik's policy is concerned, you have now said that you are Eurorealists, but what you have created is more of a Euro hysteria, because it is possible for you to say that you want to have an interest in the European Union and then go out on the streets and either throw away or burn the flag of the European Union. How will you be negotiating partners in the European Union in any way? Do you, perhaps, join the political group of the parties in which similar parties from other countries acquire their political capital out of Hungarian desecration and build themselves up like this? Is this a realistic European policy? You have said that you have not heard the conflict and the battle between Hungary and the European Union in the last four years. Well, the press didn't complain about anything other than disagreements like this, and if we name you either Viviane Reding or any other name from the leadership of the European Union, from the European Commission or from the European Parliament, you've learned the name of Hungary. But they didn't use nice signs, precisely because, for the first time in 20 years, Hungary had a government, for the first time since 2004, there was a government within the European Union that fought for the interests of Hungarian people, didn't want to create political hysteria, but wanted to protect the interests of Hungarian people, and didn't take money from Hungarian pensioners, but the banks received a special tax. He didn't take the 13th month's salary from doctors and cops, but he put a special tax on insurance companies, trade chains, or energy companies. [[The Foreman of Novak: He's been cut off!]] It was the first such government in Hungary within the European Union, which is why Brussels attacked Hungary, which is why they supported the campaign of the socialists in every way, as well as various journalists or European politicians, and agreed with them. We can therefore say that in the last four years, Hungary's representation of European interests has been very effective, and if nothing else, it can also show that in the EU per capita grants Hungary is much better represented in the 7-year European budget cycle that has just begun than in the previous one. The share of common European money, taxes, is much larger for Hungary each than in the previous period. It also shows that it is not the socialist sluggish policy, not the better flag-burning policy. [[Foreman Novak: The forint is weak!]] but the sound national Fidesz-KDNP policy [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] leads to results. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-16	The speech before today's last agenda will be given by Mr Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, on the part of Fidesz, on " Our Common Things. " Here you go.
u2014-05-12-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, About a week ago, the Hungarian Parliament resumed its work. I think that both today and, unfortunately, in recent days, events taking place between Parliament's walls or just in front of Parliament's walls have shown that the opposition parties want to continue with the same debates and unfortunately with the same style, which, by the way, were once judged by the Hungarian electorate on 6 April. Let us not forget that, on 6 April, Hungarian voters also gave a verdict on how to represent the country successfully in economic policy or in the European Union, but on 6 April they also gave a judgment on style, honourable Members. I think that this style does not include the fact that a former Member of a parliamentary party, with the strong support of the head of the European Parliament's list, is practically spit on before Parliament one of the leaders of the Hungarian communities leaving Parliament's inaugural session in an intolerable and aggressive style. It is this intolerable and aggressive style that is truly dangerous. It is dangerous for Hungary, because it will lead to the unbearable and dangerous style of taking Hungary down not only in the European Union, but also in the whole world, in front of Hungarians and not in front of Hungarians. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Gábor Fodor applauds.]] Ladies and gentlemen, If we are already talking about what Hungary has done to protect Hungarians in the European Parliament or in the European Union, then I think that neither the Fidesz-KDNP MEPs nor the government and the Prime Minister should be ashamed personally, the Prime Minister was there twice in the European Parliament to protect Hungarians and protect Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, if, on the other hand, I were to put the activities of your Members of the European Parliament on the balance, it would be a very strange balance, because one of them constantly embarrassed Hungary and Hungary with an aggressive style in the European Parliament and beyond, and the other one was looking for his own ways in the European Parliament, and he did not represent the cause of the Hungarians, and the third of them seems to spend more time in Russia than in Budapest or Brussels, at least on the basis of the latter news. Ladies and gentlemen, If I look at the left side of the Parliament horseshoe, which is opposite me, the problem is that I have no better news from that point of view. If we take stock of the activities of the representatives who were sent by the Hungarian electorate, but not to the Hungarian Parliament, but to the European Parliament, then I have to say that if the socialists, or the one there, are so-called liberal or liberal conservative - Lajos Bokros, just as he called himself, but he was a socialist - we look at the representative's activities, then I have to say that they did not dissuade Hungary with their style, but tried to discredit Hungary with their work. [[13.50]] As if this were their only objective in the European Parliament. Let's remember what they did. They were the ones who, at the beginning of the Hungarian EU Presidency, had drawn up a circular that was embarrassing, slandering Hungary, slandering the new Hungarian basic law, talking about racism, and at the beginning of the Hungarian EU Presidency, this circular was sent around thousands of copies throughout Brussels, to employees, politicians and everyone in Brussels. They tried to embarrass Hungary. The Hungarian government was then attacked in a multitude of comments within the European Parliament, and economic interest groups were constantly taken into their defence. For example, multinational companies were protected against the Hungarian government in the European Parliament. For you, the representatives of the European Parliament of the Socialists, banks and multinational companies were more important than Hungarian families. Because they were truly represented in the European Parliament and not Hungary. And we have not yet talked about what was going on with the Tavares report in ominous form, my fellow Members. We always suspected that the socialists had something to do with it, but Edit Herczog explained to us that they had more to do with it. After all, he, as a representative of the European Parliament of the Socialists, openly said that they were the ones who gave Tavares the report. The report which then tried to embarrass Hungary. I don't think that's necessary. Hungary and the Hungarians do not need the aggressive and dangerous style that Jobbik is trying to embarrass Hungary with, and otherwise there is no need for the activities of those who go to Brussels only to get Hungary out there with their activities. I think the past few years have proven it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that if Hungary has to be protected, we have to protect the reduction of the rent and earn respect for the Hungarians, then only the Fidesz-KDNP will remain. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-18	I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Németh. Here you go.
u2014-05-12-19	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As regards the case of István Pásztor, allow me to quote President János Áder's statement: "I will follow Stephen Pásztor and all our Hungarian countrymen in Vojvodina instead of my fellow countrymen who have forgotten themselves and who have turned out of themselves. " Dear Parliament, I would like to join, on behalf of the Hungarian Government and perhaps the Hungarian Parliament, I can say that the President of the Republic spoke from our hearts. István Pásztor is one of the personalities of Hungarian politics across the border, who has proved his patriotism and Hungarianism in recent years. He proved that in recent years no one has done as much as he has done for the Hungarian-Serbian reconciliation. He proved with the outstandingly high naturalization rate that he was a patriot. And we trust that as a coalition member of the Serbian government, it can continue to make a difference in the coming period. We support his activities. And our task is to condemn such manifestations and create those conditions, both political and legal, in order to prevent this from happening in the Hungarian Parliament or in the environment of the Hungarian Parliament once again. At the same time, I would like to welcome the fact that the police have detained one of the perpetrators on suspicion of a criminal offence. As far as the types of discrediting are concerned, Mr. Head of the Group, I fully agree with you. Indeed, there is a left-wing and a right-wing form of discredit here, and we have this situation on 25 May, I think we should give a clear answer. This could be the greatest possible participation in the European Parliament elections on 25 May. For if there is a strong Hungarian interest organisation in Brussels, then the main role will not be to discredit, neither to the left nor to the right, but to create the kind of recognition, prestige and respect that Hungary can normally expect. It helps us to have a strong Hungarian list, that this list is a national list. It's got Transcarpathians, it's got south country, it's got Transylvanian and it's got highlanders on it. We trust that with this strong representation, we will be able to strengthen the People's Party, the organisation, the institution in the European Parliament, which is in fierce competition to obtain the majority in the European Parliament now. The European People's Party was a loyal ally of Hungary at a very difficult time. But perhaps even more important, there will be in-depth debates on the future of Europe in the European Parliament in the coming years, and it does not matter which power will lead the future Europe. Therefore, we must also add ourselves to the results of the European People's Party, and perhaps we have experienced it now, in the elections in Hungary, and in the European Parliament we can see that very few can depend on winning over to the benefit of the People's Party. Because for us, honourable House, honourable Parliament, fellow Members, the future of Europe does matter. Because we are not imagining our future outside the European Union. We may have had a lot of debates over the last few years with the European Union, which is why it is important that we have strong representation. At the same time, how the future of this community will develop affects us in a decisive way. Because we, within the framework of the European Union, imagine the future of Hungary and Hungarians and their interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-20	Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today, Mr János Pócs, on behalf of Fidesz, applied for a speech after the agenda. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. On the agenda, for the duration of the meeting, on the speaking time limits, the House Committee presented its proposal. I would like to inform you that the factions have not proposed exchanges of committee members, so that no personal decisions will be made today. First, we will decide on any amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz faction initiated that tomorrow's meeting start at 2 p.m. instead of 9 p.m. Anyone who agrees with this proposal, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that last Thursday and today's extraordinary meeting of the House Committee has proposed a derogation from the house rules for the negotiation of two proposals. That's what we decide first. I ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain to the House Committee T/59/2. The Committee's recommendation.
u2014-05-12-21	Dear Parliament, The House Committee is T/59/2. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. T/59. In the course of the hearing of the resolution proposal, it shall depart from the provisions of the House Rules so that it may submit a representative amendment within one hour of the decision to derogate from the House Regulations, without indicating a negotiating committee; the detailed discussion of the bill shall be carried out by the legislative committee in accordance with the House Rules 44. § (1) and (3) (a) to (f) and the house rule 45. § ( 1) to (3), so that the house rule is 45. If the intention to submit an over-extensive amendment or to support or maintain such an amendment is expressed, it shall submit it separately from the summarised amendment at the same time; the fact that the detailed debate is closed and the House Rule 44. The rapporteur shall provide information on his findings in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 3; the rapporteur shall, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, give oral information on the amendments which his representatives agree to make to the proposals for amendment; [[14.00]] The house rules are 48. § 2 and 4 shall not take place on a request for a vote; the general debate, together with the discussion of the summary report and the summary amendment proposal, shall take place on 12 May 2014 in a consolidated debate. By applying paragraphs 2 to 4 of Article 46 of the House Rules. § (10) to (12) shall not apply; the final vote on the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the text of the bill as amended by the summary amendment shall take place on 12 May 2014, subject to the extension amendment proposal, subject to the House Rule 64. Article 108 of the House Rules. Paragraph 4 of Article 4 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee.
u2014-05-12-22	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of Members need a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/59/2 contributes to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal by 182 votes to one, with three abstentions. The amendment proposals can be submitted for 15 hours and 2 minutes. Dear Parliament, The joint debate will take place this afternoon as the first item on the agenda following the meeting of the Legislative Committee. Dear House, I now ask Mrs Loránt Hegedűs to explain to the House Committee T/104/4. The Committee would like to make a proposal on this subject.
u2014-05-12-23	Dear House, The House Committee is T/104/4. In its proposal No.3 of 2012 on the National Assembly, Parliament initiates the adoption of the Act XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. T/104 amending Act T/104 and certain related laws In the course of the hearing of the resolution proposal, it shall depart from the provisions of the House Rules so that it may submit a representative amendment within one hour of the decision to derogate from the House Regulations, without indicating a negotiating committee; the detailed discussion of the bill shall be carried out by the legislative committee in accordance with the House Rules 44. § (1) and (3) (a) to (f) and the house rule 45. § ( 1) to (3) and by the fact that the house rule is 45. If the intention to submit an over-extensive amendment or to support or maintain such an amendment is expressed, it shall submit it separately from the summarised amendment at the same time; the fact that the detailed debate is closed and the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 and 3 of the Act provides information on its findings in a summary report; the author shall, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, give orally information on the amendments which his representatives agree to in their proposals for amendment; the House Rule 48. § 2 and 4 shall not take place on a request for a vote; the general debate, together with the discussion of the summary report and the summary amendment proposal, shall take place on 12 May 2014 in a consolidated debate. By applying paragraphs 2 to 4 of Article 46 of the House Rules. § (10) to (12) shall not apply; the final vote on the decision on the summary amendment proposal and on the text of the bill as amended by the summary amendment shall take place on 12 May 2014, subject to the extension of the House Rule 64. Article 108 of the House Rules. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee.
u2014-05-12-24	Dear Parliament, As before, there is a need for a vote in favour of four fifths of Members to adopt the proposal. I would like to inform you that if the Parliament adopts the proposal, the joint debate will take place this afternoon as the second item on the agenda following the meeting of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/104/4 contributes to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal by 184 votes to none, with three abstentions. The amendments will be submitted for 15 hours and 6 minutes. Dear Parliament, It was initiated by the author that the J/106 on the list of the ministries of Hungary should be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Parliament will discuss bill No.1 in an urgent procedure at this meeting. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the T/106/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2014-05-12-25	Dear Parliament, The rapporteur proposed that the general debate of the bill be held on tomorrow's meeting until its closure; for the purposes of the related Commission announcements, the committees may meet today during the session of the Parliament; an amendment may be submitted until the general debate is concluded tomorrow; the detailed discussion phase should be opened with the conclusion of the general debate on the bill; for the purpose of conducting a detailed debate, the negotiating committee may meet during the parliamentary session and before the opening of the first sitting of the sitting, and the legislative committee after receiving the national information, but even the house rules 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the amendments closing the detailed debate.
u2014-05-12-26	Dear Parliament, At the same time as the initiative of the urgent hearing, the rapporteur proposed that the agenda be added to the discussion of this bill so that the general debate would take place as the first item on the agenda tomorrow until the conclusion. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, is T/106 going to be in an urgent meeting? Legislative No. 1 together with the date of the general debate. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal by 131 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz faction initiated the T/57 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the promotion of international tax compliance and the implementation of FATCA legislation and the amendment of certain related laws. The general debate on the legislative proposal No.3 is held on this day following the adoption of the agenda, so that if the debate has not yet been completed at the end of the legislative committee meeting, a adjournment will be held and its conclusion will take place today as the last item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, It was initiated by the rapporteur that T/57 should be a member of the Board of Directors of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Rule 67 of the House Rules. The proceedings provided for in Article 4 of the Act shall take place today. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that if there is no amendment by the beginning of the general debate, the decision may be taken tonight. The Fidesz Group has initiated decisions to take on this day's meeting following the conclusion of debates following the meeting of the Legislative Committee, but no later than 7 p.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts our recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. I would like to inform you that, under the new rules of the House, the proposals with which Parliament has completed its agenda can be registered in writing within one hour of the adoption of the agenda. Dear House, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the adoption of an agreement on the promotion of international tax compliance and the implementation of FATCA legislation and the amendment of certain related laws will follow. [[14.10]] The submission was made in T/57. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to hold a detailed debate on the proposal. [[It's constant noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members either to take their seats in order to continue the meeting or to leave the Chamber quickly. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-05-12-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 4 February 2014, an agreement was reached with the United States of America on the development of international tax compliance and the implementation of FATCA legislation. The Convention was preceded by negotiations on the basis of the mandate given by the Prime Minister's decision and, following the Government's decision, was signed for the first of the Member States in the region. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The main aim of the agreement is to combat tax evasion and promote international tax compliance. The agreement allows the tax authorities of the United States of America and the Hungarian tax administration to exchange information automatically. The exchange of data is conditional on both States having adequate safeguards and infrastructure to enable effective exchange to take place. I'll put in a word about the background to FATCA regulation. The United States of America created it in 2010 and put into effect its legislation on tax compliance of foreign accounts on 1 July 2014. It's short for FATCA. At the request of the G-20 - this is a good indicator of the seriousness of the matter - the OECD is developing a global model for automatic exchange of information on the basis of FATCA regulation. In part, in order to avoid regulatory sanctions and partly to coordinate the flow of information, a large part of the world's states, the Member States of the European Union, have decided to regulate the exchange of account information in a bilateral agreement. By concluding the agreement, Hungary will become a FATCA partner country, and its conclusion, this moment, will have a very significant impact on the market perception of Hungary. The lack of agreement on the investor market would create uncertainty, additional burden for many domestic financial and capital market players, market loss and legal uncertainty for small players. On this basis, without agreement, the interests of our country would be significantly damaged. At the same time as the agreement is concluded, it is possible to increase tax transparency and to preserve the competitiveness of the Hungarian financial and capital markets. At the same time, it will be avoided that as of 1 July 2014 30% of US-funded income paid to Hungarian actors will be withheld in the United States of America. This is the most important sanction I mentioned a few minutes ago. In order for the international treaty to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and to publish it in legislation, which is why you have this proposal before you at present. In view of the fact that the agreement concerns an exclusive legislative object, it is only possible to publish it in law. Dear House, The bill before you includes amendments to several financial sector laws, as the FATCA Convention provides for significant obligations for domestic financial institutions, in particular reporting obligations. In order to achieve this, a number of legislative changes are needed which fall within the scope of domestic financial services, both in order to comply with the confidentiality rules and in order to ensure that customers are properly informed. The bill also amends the law on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. The amendment requires domestic financial institutions to report to the Hungarian tax authority on the accounts of persons resident in the United States. The reporting obligation shall be fulfilled by 30 June of the year following the reference year, for the first time from the second half of 2014. The State tax authority shall aggregate the information and forward it to the US tax authority by 30 September following the reference year. In the framework of the automatic exchange of information, until 30 September of the year following the reference year, the US tax authority will also send the Hungarian tax authority the information on the accounts of Hungarian taxpayers. These data can then be used as evidence by the Hungarian tax authority in domestic tax matters. The automatic exchange of information is expected to be an effective tool in the fight against tax fraud. Dear Parliament, Based on what you've said, I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-12-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The keynote speeches will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you that, subject to the provisions of the house rules, two-minute contributions may be made for the first time only after the speech by the lead speaker, and that only one Member from each group of Members and the first independent Member from which to speak have the opportunity to comment. [[It's constant noise.]] Before we continue our work, I respectfully ask my fellow Members in this Chamber to take their seats, to ensure the proper conditions for the hearing. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-05-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the promotion of international tax compliance and the publication of an agreement on the implementation of FATCA legislation and the amendment of certain related laws aims to promote international tax compliance. This means mutual tax assistance based on an efficient infrastructure for automatic exchange of information. The Secretary of State stressed this. According to this, the tax authorities of the USA and Hungary are automatically exchanging information on the accounts of customers located in the partner country with financial and capital market participants registered in their territory. However, an effective exchange is an essential condition for both countries to have adequate safeguards and infrastructure. Why is this important, fellow Members? Cooperation between authorities and the exchange of tax information are the most effective means of preventing international tax fraud and tax evasion. However, in national competence, it is now impossible to reduce tax evasion, and it is therefore necessary to take joint action between States and introduce international standards. In the development of these standards, the OECD came to the farthest and specific solution to the problem was the FATCA regulation introduced by the Americans, which is the law on tax compliance of foreign accounts, as Mr Secretary of State said. [[14.20]] FATCA regulation places a serious obligation on payments in respect of US taxpayers' investments in foreign accounts. According to this, foreign financial institutions, including banks, insurance companies and investment funds, should they not enter into an agreement with the US tax authority on the obligation to identify and report customers and, in specific cases, to deduct funds, 30% of US income will be deducted. The regulation will, as has been said, enter into force gradually from 1 July 2014. It is true that FATCA regulation is a major financial and administrative burden for economic and financial operators operating in the EU, and it is therefore more effective if these actors do not enter into agreements with the US tax authorities individually, but the tax authorities of those European States automatically provide information. This is simply feasible through an intergovernmental agreement. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, my fellow Members, the proposal before us contains amendments to certain laws in order to ensure the consistency of the agreement and internal law, as referred to by the Secretary of State. This is of major importance, as many EU Member States now have signed agreements. In addition, in the absence of an intergovernmental agreement and a legislative environment enabling compliance, 30 percent of the US-funded income paid to domestic operators from 1 July 2014 would be withheld in the United States of America. In addition, the country's uncertain assessment of FATCA would lead to significant investor confidence loss. For these reasons, in order to avoid these, I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-05-12-30	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that the group's position was presented by two Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. There you go. You have the floor.
u2014-05-12-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP supports the establishment of an agreement between the Government and the Government of the United States of America on the implementation of the U.S. law on the promotion of international tax compliance and tax compliance of foreign accounts. I believe that there can be no debate between parliamentary parties on the need to conclude agreements such as these in order to reduce international tax fraud and tax evasion. There can be no discussion that Hungary must be on the side of those who want to combat tax evasion, international tax evasion and not on the side of countries that support tax avoidance. Therefore, if Hungary really wants to take action to reduce international tax avoidance, one of the steps to do so is to support the exchange of information between tax authorities with its own instruments, i.e. the National Tax and Customs Office will automatically send and receive data under the Convention. The exchange of information between tax administrations can make it worthwhile and effective to enable individual states to enforce their internal tax rules more effectively and to better achieve the objectives of public money that are truly important to society. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party therefore supports the adoption of the bill, but I think it is important that I draw attention to two circumstances, since the devil does not sleep. Even in an international agreement, there is a provision containing exceptions to some kind of interest, and it is part of this treaty and bill. One of these, to which I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, is that, although the government has explained in detail the reasons for concluding the agreement, there is still a loophole in the Convention that could undermine the achievement of the objective of the Convention. According to the convention, tax authorities do not provide information on certain financial accounts, and in particular the Hungarian tax authority does not provide information to the US tax authority about the opening of a so-called stability savings account by an American citizen. As you know, this is the construction that has been in operation for a few months, which is referred to in the press only as money laundering under state aid. This is the arrangement where illegal income can be placed in such a way that it becomes legal tax-free in five years' time, the financial institution does not disclose personal data to the tax authority, and with the certificate issued, the tax authority may not act against any previous or tax fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, If Hungary wishes to take serious action in order to avoid international taxation, such loopholes should not have a place in the Convention. Of course, if Hungary really wants to take action to protect public funds, then the State should not be doing business with offshore companies, even if it turns out that their owners are otherwise in close contact with high-level government circles. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to another minor circumstance and to the attention of the government that it is not right for the government to apply such a bill of international conventions as the so-called salad law; it is not appropriate to include an amendment in the bill which has nothing to do with the international convention which has been concluded, namely the bill 6. §2 of the Act amends capital market laws with a provision which is in no way related to this Convention. I do not wish to speculate on the reasons for this. Obviously, it can be explained that this is a harmless technical amendment, since only three article articles have been inserted into the text. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the adoption of the bill on the basis of the above-mentioned reasons, but with the comments made. Thank you for your attention, and I would also like to point out to Mr President that I have represented the position alone. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-32	Thank you, Congressman. I must inform the Honourable Parliament, yes, Mr Bertalan Tóth also presented the position of Congresswoman Márta Demeter in his speech. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if, on behalf of the KDNP and the Group of Jobbik, someone wishes to speak as a lead speaker. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-05-12-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, we are in favour of the Convention itself, and there is nothing else to do, but there are questions here, especially since we have been able to listen to the great account of the greatness of this Convention. The first question is why Hungary does not conclude similar reciprocity agreements. Why does Hungary not require that if the Hungarian national tax authority is not granted access to the foreign account, Hungary will also keep 30% of the income earned in Hungary here? Why does Hungary not have such reciprocity agreements? We see that one of the main burdens of the Hungarian national economy in the last quarter of a century is the income pump that weighs on this economy, and one of the branches of this income pump absorbs income through offshore connections. Because it should also be stated immediately that while these automatic tax exchanges are naturally to be welcomed in international law, I do not see much compassion from the Hungarian government or from the majority of the government, that this would encourage government policy to actually, not only in terms of words, eliminate the offshore knights. In recent months, the LMP has put four proposals on Parliament's table on how to sweep the offshore knights off Hungary, beyond the fact that in the debate on the Civil Code, we have proposed that in a closed time we cannot register in Hungary economic organizations whose ownership structure is not transparent. We have suggested that offshore companies should not be allowed to come to the area of public funds, which is where EU funds are being developed. [[14.30]] Here's to throw away companies whose tentacles either go to opaque places or lead to tax havens that are known to draw taxes from this country. This proposal to remove offshore knights from, among other things, the EU's development resources, was swept off the table by Fidesz-KDNP. Secondly, we also suggested that with such offshore, tax-free companies, public bodies, municipalities, state and municipal companies should not be allowed to sign up at all. Here, where we are now, in my constituency, there was such a transaction in the preemptive municipal era, when the Demszky Gábors in Veres Pálné Street played a property into the hands of some huge company in Seychelles or the Marshall Islands, and then a few hundred yards away, the miracle - now thanks to Mayor Antal Rogán, Head of the Group - that the Paris Court had moved into his interests to some investor in Belize - I almost said that he had moved into his pocket. Can you give a reasonable explanation as to whose interests it is in the interests of which state or municipality is that these clearly dubious companies have access to state, municipal property and can have contractual relations with state and municipal bodies? Because Hungary does not serve the interests of Hungarian taxpayers, that is for sure. We have proposed that state and municipal bodies do not deal with companies or companies with such backgrounds registered in Belize, Seychelles and other offshore havens. And what did you say? It was swept off the table, obviously, because the Fidesz-KDNP is actually protecting the offshore knights, trying to deal with offshore knights. Last summer, when it turned out that the development portfolio had an official who had offshore interests, we also suggested that, in the case of government officials and politicians, we declare the conflict of interest of offshore property. You have also swept this proposal off the table. And next week, we will present a proposal that requires regular propertyisation investigation against politicians, so that, unlike the bad habit of the last 25 years, no future smuggling of assets acquired from politics into offshore havens, foreign bank accounts with questionable backgrounds. We are curious about what the two-thirds majority will do with this proposal. In conclusion, in addition to the fact that this convention is, of course, acceptable, there is still no understanding of where the Warrior Warrior's heat will remain when it comes to Hungary taking the same lead in defending its own interests, as the United States of America does. Why is it not in Hungary's interest that if someone does not give access to the foreign account to the Hungarian tax authority, then also 30 percent of the income will be withheld? And there is still a lack of decisive action not only in words on the part of the government against the offshore knights, because this tax information exchange system, which is spreading all over the world, is actually producing its fruit in a country if, in addition to international conventions, national governments - and not only nationals on their behalf - act stone hard against many times politicians, various companies fishing in confusion, extracting wealth, concealing it, stripping it of wealth. But we can see why you're good friends with offshore knights, by the way. Recently it turned out that Andy Vajna's company, Las Vegas Casino Kft. According to its last report, it migrated tax-free to a similar name company in Luxembourg under the title of 245 million shareholder loans for 710 million dividends. This Andy Vajna is today at the head of the Hungarian National Film Fund. Why? Why? Why do you tolerate offshore knights in the government structure? ! Doesn't that bother you? These agreements are effective if you behave consistently, demand the Hungarian interest on a reciprocal basis; if you do not grant access to the foreign account to the Hungarian tax authority, Hungary will also levy 30 percent tax, and in the other direction they will consistently act here and nationally against the offshore knights. You don't do that, you give offshore knights different extra rights, and you tolerate it in the government apparatus. Of course, it should also be said that there was a withholding tax that was imposed before 2010, you ended this in 2011, and in 2012 János Lázár announced a 35 percent withholding tax on money exported to tax havens after a government meeting. Where is this promise? Where is this promise? I would like to see that beyond the fact that such agreements are being tabled, what concrete actions this government will pursue in the next cycle, in order to keep the income generated here at home, cannot be further robbed of this country, and that this revenue pump must not be allowed to continue to work. What actions are there, and how long do they tolerate offshore knights in the Hungarian government, how long do they tolerate Hungarian state and municipal authorities doing business with various offshore companies? I would like to get an answer to that, because this agreement alone, while the offshore knights are hitting this country with a steering wheel, so that Hungary... [[Towards the benches of the governing parties:]] You're shaking your head, Mr. Mayor, that's right. The fact that Hungary does not have the right, on a reciprocal basis, to withdraw the 30 percent tax if it is not shared with it in the same way, so this convention will not help much in Hungary, in the Hungarian national economy, the ability to generate income and to reverse income. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have come to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that this international agreement, which is now being negotiated by the House, is a step in that direction, and it is a necessary and important step to keep Hungary as far away from the offshore companies that are not for the country's benefit or even to the detriment of it, or, as Congressman Schiffer said, keep the offshore knights as far away from the country as possible. It is only a step by step that I believe that we can achieve results, and in this respect the Convention is a very important step. I myself believe that reciprocity must prevail in all international treaties, including in this treaty. Where this reciprocity appears to be damaged, it is clear to note that negotiating positions are not always and not necessarily the same. The aim should be to ensure that these positions are, as far as possible, identical and that positions are balanced. What I would like to draw attention to is, in particular, possible anomalies in relation to information flows. You have to be careful about the outflow of information at all times. The past period has brought and given a number of signals to which attention should be paid. There is no doubt that economic information in the world is of great value and that they are collected in many places. It is collected legally and collected illegally. Illegal collection is extremely dangerous, so I think that the state must be very careful to ensure that the information is always accurate, in compliance with legality, in compliance with the Convention. However, I think, and that is why I started my speech by saying that it is an important step, because the fact is that international tax evasion in the world today is not simply a matter of some offshore companies leaving the country or elsewhere, but a business. This is a related business that one rightly suspects that there are much broader and, I must say, broad-based mergers. If there is a gap in these, then these gaps must be found, and I think that it is the state's job, and right now it is doing so by means of agreements. I believe that such agreements should continue to be concluded in a number of financial areas. This does not mean that a process has now been completed, and we can consider this process to be completed from now on, on the contrary, because the opponents who work in this market, in this field, represent an unheard of force, huge capital, and I have to say enormous influence. Every gap that can be struck is not only eligible, but I believe it is necessary. [[14.40]] I'd like to draw attention to one more thing. Investments for Hungary, if they are clean and serve the country, are not only necessary but inevitable. For Hungary, investors, I have to say, should arrive in the coming times with the certainty that, in the event of legitimate operation, they can rely not on retortions, not on some kind of exclusion, but on particularly helpful legislation that creates legal conditions for investors in the interests of the country. But these legal conditions - and I agree with Mr Schiffer on that - must be strict, and these legal conditions must be consistent, and strict and consistent legal conditions are those that will make the feeling of security especially for investors who we would expect to be worth investing and safe in Hungary. I therefore believe that we can all wholeheartedly support this agreement. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes. Gábor Orbán: Yes.]] Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here, you have a 30-minute window.
u2014-05-12-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 30 seconds will be enough to respond in a few words to what Mr Schiffer has said, since Mr Béla Turi-Kovács has given me the point. I would like to add so much to your words that, as we see now, tax cooperation in the world is not heading in the direction of withholding nations and thus trying to achieve their goals, but rather of developing a tendency to have as many participants as possible in the automatic exchange of information at global level. This is why the whole work is carried out at OECD level, which is why multilateral agreements are concluded. FATCA is indeed an exception in this sense, since the United States has been at the forefront of this matter and is trying to conclude with as many countries as possible the slightly demented type of this, which we know as FATCA regulation, has been demented or, I would say, a slightly less ambitious, more realistic form. I think that it would be a step backwards for Hungary to go backwards towards withholding taxes, but rather it is useful for it to participate as much as possible in this multilateral and automatic exchange of information process. In the U.S. case, this 30 percent withholding tax is more of a sanction. The Americans do not want as many countries as possible to opt for withholding tax instead of cooperating with them in this exchange of information. This is also an answer to why we do not conclude such sanctions in Hungary - in addition to what Congressman Turi-Kovács said - why we do not impose such sanctions on the Hungarian side. Apart from the fact that it's a little unviable, but I'm telling you, there's a technical or practical reason for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, since no amendments have been tabled by the beginning of the general debate, the legislative proposal will also be decided this evening, as amended by the adopted agenda. Dear Parliament, Since the legislative committee has not yet finished its meeting, in order to start further discussions in a houselike manner, I am now ordering a break of at least one hour until the meeting of the committee is completed. (Sunning: 2.45 - 18.05 p.m.) President: Dr. János Latorcai Tickets: József Móring Attila and Nándor Gúr)
u2014-05-12-39	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. We will continue today's meeting. In the chair of the meeting, Mr Nándor Gúr and Mr Attila József Móring will help me as notaries. It is now up to LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. a consolidated debate on the draft law amending the law. The submission was made in T/59. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. I would like to inform you that the legislative committee is T/59/8. T/59/9. and submitted a summary report. These are also available on the network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 15-minute time frame, who will present the presentation from here on the platform. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-05-12-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The first bill before the new Parliament, on which we can vote, is an extension of the eviction moratorium in order to protect foreign exchange creditors. The new Parliament will begin its substantive legislative work by negotiating a bill that was submitted by the government that took office in 2010. The direct precedent of the bill is that the Parliament decided in November 2013 that the eviction moratorium would not take place during the rounds of 2013 and 2014, from 1 December to 1 March, but from 1 December to 30 April. At the same time, the question is before the Parliament to decide on the future fate of the moratorium. Before explaining the substance of the Government's proposal, I would like to mention in a few words the cases in which eviction may take place. One of the cases is when the enforcement procedure is initiated because the debtor has to transfer a property, but this does not take place voluntarily after the enforcement order has been ordered. Most of the time, such procedures are initiated because of the termination of rental contracts. As a general rule, the court calls the defendant to a 15-day voluntary removal in the enforceable document, but since it is a natural person who has to transfer the apartment to a legal person, this may be extended by 90 days at his request. This is the voluntary removal period. After that, the case will be brought back to court, which will proceed either with fines or instead or after the eviction order. The executor then begins the preparation and then the execution of the eviction. The other case is that the debtor has to leave his property because his property has been auctioned, which means his ownership of the property has ceased. The removal shall take place after the review proceedings have been carried out and the full purchase price has been paid and the debtor may request a deferral of up to 6 months from the court. After expiry of the deadline, the auctioneer may make a request for eviction. It can be seen that, on the basis of the procedural rules, a number of procedural acts take place from the opening of proceedings to the eviction, several months, but not rarely one year, to the removal. Every year, in previous years, when there was no moratorium, the average number of evictions was between 900 and 1000 nationwide. At the same time, the regulation will only serve its purpose if it ensures that it takes place within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, the moratorium is not possible to maintain a temporary legal institution for a broad period of time in any legal system. With regard to the bill, the Parliament must decide on whose case the moratorium remains. The government proposes that the moratorium should continue to apply to foreign exchange-credit debtors, and the reason for that is that the legislator still needs to make a long-term provision for them. It is well known to all of us how many measures the government has taken in recent years to protect and help foreign exchange creditors. It has developed arrangements based on exchange rate recording, whereby hundreds of thousands of debtors have an open way to repay their debt at the statutory rate or to cancel their debt at a fixed rate. The National Assembly introduced the coercion quotas, the National Asset Manager launched its home saving and debt reduction, housing purchase programme, and various interest subsidies were also established. At the same time, a large number of appeals have been initiated in individual cases and the case law also brought to light the contractual conditions which could be affected by the legal consequences of dispute and invalidity. In this situation, the Government has taken the strategic decision to take further measures excluding all legal risks. It awaits the decision of the European Court of Justice and the decision to complete it, and also clarifies the framework for legal intervention in the Treaties. The purpose of all this is to eliminate exchange rate risk from the contractual relationship of the parties in full and comprehensive terms and permanently, and to avoid the need to launch thousands or hundreds of thousands of nullity lawsuits. As long as this legal background is not established, the government is proposing to this House to maintain a moratorium on foreign exchange-crediters, but only on foreign exchange-crediters. The government has submitted legislation to the Parliament which gives the widest possible interpretation of foreign exchange-based housing loans. It includes, irrespective of the contract threshold, any arrangement in which the debt is covered by residential property and the moratorium is protected by the proposal for the liability of collateral contracts relating to the foreign exchange contract, such as pledges or guarantors. Where the debtor is subject to a moratorium, he may not be removed, as appropriate, because of other debts in addition to foreign exchange loans. [[18.10]] If, on the other hand, he was convicted legally in criminal proceedings in connection with lending or the acquisition of the apartment, because, unfortunately, this was also the case, he is not subject to a moratorium, but this is only in the case of prisoners of crime. The provisions of the bill apply mutatis mutandis to pending cases, since the aim is to keep the moratorium on the issue of those who have been under the moratorium. The government is fully aware that a moratorium is just a temporary solution to debtors' affairs, a moratorium is just a tool. In recent years, we have moved every stone to get Hungary out of the crisis caused by foreign exchange lending. We have undertaken a confrontation with the creditor market, the international financial world, and we have allocated massive budgetary resources to the debt management programmes already mentioned. In the meantime, we have been removed from the scope of the excessive deficit procedure and prevented, in addition to credit debts, the overhead costs from skyrocketing. I assure you, we have not made this journey in vain; we will go through the matter of foreign exchange credentials. That is why I ask for your support in voting in favour of the law. I trust that everyone will vote in favour of this government referral regardless of party standing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the legislative committee and the opinion of the minority will now be presented. I would like to inform you that, according to house rules, there is a total time frame of 15 minutes for these speeches, divided into 8 minutes for the legislative committee's resolution and 7 minutes for the minority opinion. Accordingly, I now give the floor to Mrs Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, rapporteur for the legislative committee, within an eight-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-05-12-42	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the legislative committee is T/59. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement The bill amending the law was discussed in the House Rules. You found it in accordance with § (1). I will also inform the Parliament that Katalin Csöbör 59/2. The Committee supported the amendment tabled by the Committee. This is included in the Commission's summary amendment proposal. I will also inform the Parliament that the summation report was adopted by the legislative committee by 25 votes in favour, 12 votes against, with zero abstentions. I ask this House to support the objectives set out in the bill and the treaties of foreign exchange creditors by pushing out the moratorium. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-43	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The minority opinion is presented by Mr András Schiffer, Member of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-05-12-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In general, I can say that the bill itself was supported by opposition parties. The debate came from the fact that the opposition parties, all opposition representatives, resented the fact that the extension of the eviction moratorium alone does not provide any solution, even if there is no final deadline; it is not a fundamental solution to the foreign exchange crisis. However, I would like to address all the amendments. Perhaps the biggest debate was triggered by the amendment proposed by T/59/5. I have tabled a number on the matter that, in the future, when it comes to a contract for a foreign exchange loan, enforcement cannot be carried out on the basis of a notary document; it cannot be carried out on residential property only, but cannot be carried out at all. This has been presented and received the support of all opposition representatives in the Committee on the grounds that, if there is agreement in the House that the foreign exchange credit scheme itself has been terribly unfair, and that banks have largely abused consumer information deficits, so to speak, we have a good reason to maintain a situation which is consistent with an EU directive that has been adopted since then, so far as such contracts are concerned, that the judicial path, judicial protection, cannot be circumvented. In the Commission's debate, I advised the pro-government representatives that perhaps instead of banks, they would take the risk that the banks might not like this proposal. Unfortunately, this courage did not exist in the pro-government majority. This proposal goes beyond what is contained in the bill itself. On the one hand, if it is a notary deed, so it is not a final judicial decision, then the sword of Damocles does not float over the heads of the families concerned, that this moratorium will eventually end at some point, but it is quite clear that they cannot be evicted without a judicial journey. Secondly, this proposal does not distinguish between assets threatened with enforcement, it also provides for a ban on enforcement, even if, on the basis of the notary deed, enforcement would lead to other assets and consumer goods. In addition, the Socialist Members suggested that the bill lay down at least a legislative obligation for the Parliament, so that the legislation on the situation of foreign exchange lenders was adopted by 30 September 2014. However, on the opposition side, we did not see why such an obligation could not be established for Parliament itself, for itself, as the representatives of the two-thirds majority declared that the foreign exchange credit crisis would be resolved shortly after the 2010 inaugural meeting. Two thirds of them were not enough. The right-wing representatives suggested that this T/59/6 and 7 be added so that the bill be supplemented with a regulation that, if someone takes on a HUF loan to replace the foreign currency loan, this HUF loan should be included in the rule. [[18.20]] In English, the eviction moratorium should also prevail when eviction is levied and executed on the basis of the forint loan transaction concluded to replace it, not on the basis of the foreign currency loan transaction. I supported this myself, and the majority of the committee voted against it. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Shame.]] And I would also like to address the proposal put forward by Katalin Csöbör, which says that there is no moratorium on eviction in the event that the auction buyer is a municipality and claims housing for the purpose of placing so-called workers. Together with fellow Jobbikos, we have not seen much reason for such discrimination in relation to the people who are being evicted, our fellow citizens. That is why we have not voted in favour of this proposal; the majority voted in favour. I myself do not see very much the constitutional reason or constitutional possibility for the National Assembly to make this type of distinction between people who are otherwise threatened with eviction, according to who the auction buyer is and for what purpose he wants to buy the property. In addition, I translate the logic: there is also doubt among auction buyers how constitutional the distinction is, because many other constitutionally useful goals can be that someone wants to buy a property at auction. It is completely unjustified for the legislator to make such a distinction here, both for the person and for the purpose. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2014-05-12-45	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now the political groups can express their views in a 30-30-minute time frame, and the independent Members can comment on this in a total of 8 minutes. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. First from the Fidesz Group, Mrs Csöbör Katalin, Member. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-05-12-46	Mr President, Dear House, I consider it a great honor to speak as speaker of the Fidesz faction, and we hope that it will be the first legislative proposal to be adopted in this new parliamentary term. It is not by chance that, in this cycle, the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement was created. A bill amending the law is discussed and we wish to adopt it first. The eviction moratorium expired on 30 April 2014, so we are in a repeated need to rescue and help foreign exchange legitimists. However, before I turn to the specific proposal, allow me to briefly explain and remind my fellow Members of the history and our efforts over the past four years. In 2010, we faced one of the most serious social, economic and financial problems at the moment of our accession to the government. For the problem of foreign currency-based home-crediters in difficulty, let us not forget, socialist governments are responsible. After reaching power at one time, contrary to their preliminary promises, they gradually eliminated the supported forint loans and actively contributed to solving their housing problems instead through foreign exchange loans or high-interest forint loans. Hungarians have been lured into the foreign exchange credit system and have not been adequately warned about serious risks and have not been protected from their unequal position against credit institutions. I must stress that the Fidesz government and the Fidesz fraction have been working on solving the problem since June 2010, while socialist governments have done nothing. [[Zoltán Lukács: We have not been involved in government since then.]] The eviction moratorium is just a tool, but it is almost a basic requirement for the case of foreign exchange creditors, so we have constantly extended it in the last cycle. The introduction of the exchange barrier within the framework of the lump sum end repayment plan and the establishment of the National Asset Manager within the framework of the Home Protection Action Plan are both measures to assist foreign exchange lenders. As a result, according to the data I know, more than 500 thousand families have received assistance in some form; 170,000 have made use of the possibility of final repayment, 165,000 have applied to the exchange rate barrier so far, and nearly 7500 have offered their property to the National Asset Manager, and 150,000 families are protected by the eviction moratorium. In relation to this latter data, and because there are still those who are unable to recover from the trap of foreign exchange credit without their own fault, an indefinite extension of the eviction moratorium is justified as the first measure of the new cycle. As regards this law, it is important to note that the Constitutional Court's decision in March of this year stated that foreign exchange credit contracts can be changed by law if their continued maintenance is in breach of the essential interests of one party, the change was not foreseeable and the problem is wide-ranging. This decision has therefore shown that the basic law is an effective protection for consumers and a clear mandate for what we can do in the legislation. However, we are bound by the judgment of the Curia, in particular on two open issues, namely the unilateral amendment of the contract and the exchange rate gap. However, we cannot do nothing until this expected resolution, so we must adopt the bill before us as soon as possible. With the unlimited extension of the eviction moratorium, we will now make banks interested in settling the situation of foreign exchange creditors as soon as possible, as banks will not be able to recover their claims until such legislation is adopted. According to this bill submitted, the moratorium applies to those who have to leave their residence and are not entitled to use other immovable property; nor does it make impossible the housing of the applicant for execution to remain in the apartment; is not an arbitrary tenant; is not a person who has been fined. The proposal continues to include the rule that a moratorium applies to those persons who have not been convicted by the court for misuse of credit. So we filter out those who committed a crime in relation to lending, thus also ensuring social justice. The eviction moratorium applies to the cases of persons who are debtors of a foreign exchange loan contract and to those who have to leave their homes due to other obligations arising from a foreign exchange loan contract or an obligation arising from another contract providing for a foreign exchange loan contract. It is important that the moratorium also applies to those to whom the former moratorium law had to be applied. Finally, as a member of Borsod County, Miskolc, I would like to briefly address the problem of the Avas estate in Miskolc. In some parts of the housing complex, there are unfavorable conditions; there are flats, condos, and floor levels that have been completely destroyed, completely uninhabitable, and this problem cannot be solved by means of so far. The problems are already threatening the entire community of those living there, because because of the previous ones, there are those who ignore the basic rules of community co-existence. [[György Szilágyi: But who?]] The situation cannot be resolved either by moving into the housing site for a few hours. [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The adoption of my proposed amendment would allow both housing and job creation aspects of the government to be applied in the case of state and municipal property, such as several dwellings in the Avas housing establishment. [[18.30]] This special arrangement would allow the owner to acquire the property previously purchased by the municipality within a short period of time, i.e. the municipality or the publicly owned entity. In the interest of the community, the municipality can renovate its property in such a way that it can then lease viable homes to those who are in a difficult situation, but are willing to do so to improve the quality of life of all those living there. I'd like everyone's support on this one. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-12-47	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Lukács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-12-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The calvary of foreign exchange lenders does not affect a narrow layer, nor has it just begun, it looks back more than ten years. There are now over 300,000 families involved, saying that up to a million people could be involved in this problem. It goes back ten years because the foreign exchange loan started, and when this product appeared on the Hungarian market, it started primarily with car loans, and then, in 2002, the housing loan started. As far as the subsidised housing loans were concerned, there were obviously also winners of this, who were actually more easily able to obtain housing from housing loans supported by the state, supported in Sija and subsidised by preferential loans, but of course it was a tremendous expense to the budget, as a very large layer of property was formed after a year or two, who bought 30-40 million properties with state support and credit. And then, of course, these tax forints were apparently used for business purposes, which, after a while, became clearly unsustainable economically. Of course, in the case of foreign exchange loans, there is room for debate as to whether these banking products are correct, whether these contracts are in order, and what kind of banking background is there at all. These debates are taking place anyway, socially, politically, and even now before the court. Obviously, they'll have their results. However, I have to say that the foreign exchange credit problem is mainly caused by the exchange rate of the forint. The exchange rate of the forint, which has been deteriorating in recent years. In 2010, foreign exchange lenders suffered an exchange rate loss of 974 billion, which is 18.8 percent of debt, and this happened in the previous cycle, not in the past, but now. In 2013, the average exchange rate of the Swiss franc was already HUF 241, compared to an average annual exchange rate of HUF 227 in 2011, but in 2010 it did not even reach HUF 200. So in 2010, there were not even 200 forints of Swiss francs, and by 2013 it was over 241 forints. And the MNB's own statistics show that an average monthly instalment may have increased by 70 percent from 2010 to today. This was precisely caused by the fluctuations in economic policy and forint exchange rates, the weakness of the forint exchange rate. The Congresswoman is right, in the previous term, the government really tried to take different measures with different success. Obviously, there were several packages and such-such saving ideas, but just by standing here and talking about it, it shows exactly that these attempts have been unsuccessful in a row. Obviously, some people, a fraction of foreign exchange credentials, were helped by these measures, and the majority were not helped by these measures. One was the National Asset Manager, which had to wait two years before he got up, and then when he got up, nothing happened for months, and by now maybe some families were able to help. The exchange rate barrier may have been the measure most people used. But you also need to know about the exchange rate barrier, that it actually keeps the Swiss franc's exchange rate at April 2010, but this is increasing, obviously, when this exchange rate barrier expires, we know well that those who are involved in this price barrier will be in more trouble than when they step into it. Obviously, they've got air, their repayments haven't increased, but this debt is growing on the special account, practically the same way, and when this price barrier expires, they're gonna have this terrible debt falling on their necks at the same time, which they're probably not gonna know what to do with. Final repayment was such a measure. We are well aware that the final repayment was made mainly by those who already had money, savings, or money from somewhere else. Precisely those who were not primarily affected by payment of instalments were able to make the payment. The payment, if you like, didn't help the people you really needed to help. Still, there must have been a lot of people who could live with it. We don't consider the Old Town Park a success story either. Officially, they spent 2.5 billion forints on this, obviously everyone knows it could have cost more than that. Spending 2.5 billion forints smarter than that - whether spent on a rental or otherwise - could have been more helpful to those in the most difficult situation of foreign exchange lenders, precisely to those who had lost their property and had no place to live. Among the great externalities, the office of the Financial Ombudsperson was announced, who began his work at large, and did not finish for quite a year, and then, as announced, the office of the Financial Ombudsperson was terminated less than a year later. And there is the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, which openly stated that the transaction tax introduced by the government was passed on to the customers by the banks, so they quickly merged it into the Hungarian National Bank. So these rescue packages and various measures, I don't dispute for a minute that there were people and families to whom they meant relief and help, but they couldn't really solve this problem completely. And I'll tell you again, all the rescue packages and measures don't trigger the fact that the exchange rate of the forint continues to deteriorate, so the repayments continue to increase precisely because of this. In April 2010, the HUF/Frank exchange rate was 185 forints, and after Viktor Orbán's four-year government, the exchange rate is now above 250 forints, and the convergence programme presented to the European Commission shows that you do not expect an improvement in the next period either, because between 2014 and 17 you expect an exchange rate of 308 forints, while in April 2010 the euro price was between 260 forints and 270 forints. The Hungarian Socialist Party has always been interested in solving the problem, and we have made a proposal in this regard, and, if you remember correctly, in the last cycle, a number of measures that you have taken in this case have been supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party, and even submitted amendments to it, have added professional materials. Most of these were rejected by you, however, we supported quite a lot of your actions in the case of foreign exchange creditors. They had steps that we opposed and criticized, these steps, and later proved that they had not been particularly successful. We have submitted so-called family or individual bankruptcy protection three times in the last term, unfortunately you have voted against it three times, so that we have not even been able to put this on the agenda, and we have just submitted it to the House four times today. My fellow Member Tobias spoke about this before the agenda; we hope that he can finally come before the House and that we can help people in this matter as well. And today, we have tabled an amendment, which was about to complete your bill in a single sentence, which, by the way, we agree and we are going to vote on, that we would like to see if the so-called large general law that will save the foreign exchange credentials you are talking about here, not just talk about it at last, but give ourselves, give the House some time limit here, so that we can finally put it in here and talk about it. [[18.40]] It is in the law, however, that we will maintain the moratorium until we bring this law before the House, but once again there is no mention of what this law is, and when it will come before the House. The moratorium can be completely maintained, it can be said that the banks will come to a better agreement with the debtors. I don't think that's gonna make the banks more comfortable with the debtors. I think the same situation will be preserved, and as long as this situation persists, and the banks will not agree better with the debtors, the debtors will suffer badly because their credit, their credit will continue to increase, regardless of whether you allow them to be evicted, that we will not allow them to be evicted. That's very good, but it's only going to increase their credit, and they're in the same kind of trouble, and the worst thing that doesn't happen to them is that they don't get evicted from their apartments. We have proposed that this proposal be put here by 30 September, which you are otherwise talking about, and that the House should be able to talk about it, and that we should be able to hit the next winter by offering a solution with such a law to foreign exchange creditors. Unfortunately, Fidesz-KDNP did not support this in the legislative committee. State Secretary Répássy argued that it was not a good time, because the date of 30 September is not well compatible with the moratorium, since it will be again on 1 December. We made a proposal in which we accepted this and asked that there should be an amendment already tabled by the committee, so that it would be 1 December, and we did not insist on 30 September. All we wanted to do was to see that there was serious intent. Because if the intention was really serious, you wouldn't have voted against this House giving itself a time limit on how long it will be before this law is drawn up. Unfortunately, this has also been voted down by the pro-government majority, so this decision will remain, which will maintain the moratorium that has been done so far, but it will not give any indication whether, say, this year at all, the nearly one million people involved in foreign exchange loans will have such a law that you are talking about will have such a law, and let's say, next year they will have other options. We wanted you to vote in favour of this, but unfortunately, it seems that you have no intention of doing so. However, I ask that, regardless of the fact that this amendment has been voted down, we look forward to bringing this law here, we look forward to participating in this debate, we can say our proposals, but until you can come before this House with this law, we have brought the law on individual bankruptcy for the fourth time, then at least let it come here, before the House, we can argue about it, and at least help the families to accept this family bankruptcy law, and we will make this law here, within the walls of the House. This would also be a very big help for foreign exchange lenders. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-05-12-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-12-50	Mr President, Dear House, I am honoured to be able to make the first speech of this term in Parliament for the benefit of hundreds of thousands of credit-damaged people. The point of our call is precisely that, on the one hand, all Members of this House vote without remorse on the proposal before us, which, although it is only a symptomatic treatment, provides serious help, is temporary help. Secondly, I would like to place at least such a strong emphasis on why what we have before us is not a final solution, and then I would like to try to take a deep breath, because after years of doing nothing from the MSZP benches, the horror of various, otherwise partly justified, machinations related to the forint exchange rate appeared again. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Are you machination or just?]] It's like hundreds of thousands of families in foreign currency debt crisis in itself. The only problem is that anyone with a basic economic qualification is aware that the exchange rate of a forint, if any, the currency of this country, is not only driven by domestic factors. However, it is very, very embarrassing in itself that, during this governance, the loan stock that we are talking about here at the moment has increased by some 120 times, not considering that in 2001, the possibility of unilateral treaty amendments was even raised. At that time, the original sin that freed the spirit from the bottle, but by itself to fill the fluctuations in the forint exchange rate with that amazing series of financial abuses, the mass and organized plundering of the Hungarian population, is not only unprofessional but also nonsense. It should be mentioned that, at the moment, there are also, fortunately, good sentences on the justification for the proposal before us. It is no coincidence that we for a very long time have chanted that the moratorium on eviction should indeed be extended until the problem is resolved and warms our hearts when we hear literally that you do not want to support arbitrary homeowners in their activities, just as neither do we, which is why we have brought this to the House on dozens of occasions. But we must note that there is a symptomatic treatment ahead of us, the final solution can only be to forint loans at the rate at the time of admission, by which, on the basis of the polluter-pays principle, we would repel the polluters, the banks concerned, the enormous burden that was hit on the Hungarian population. And while it is possible to talk about the mistakes and even crimes of MSZP governments, we have to say that this is why four years have passed, which was the case every month and every year of four years of Fidesz-KDNP governance, at the annual level, 2-3 percent of the gross domestic product was spent on repayment by the Hungarian population instead of this huge mass appearing as a purchasing power at the corner spicy, showing up with the Hungarian entrepreneur, and you have been able to contribute very hard to the desiccation of the economy. After that, we would need at least insight, and a package of proposals for a solution, which will indeed, with deadlines and accountable means, to settle the fate of these people in Hungary, and to count them within the framework of a consumer raid, not all the banks, the banks concerned, those who have thrown the financial waste into the hands of Hungarian citizens. Our amendments were also made in the knowledge that we should try to protect as wide a circle as possible. On this basis, we also suggested that we help those forint-loans who, if any, took out a forint loan to replace a foreign currency loan, or that the combination of several loans caused their impossibility, and they did not fall into the foreign currency loan, because they could not exactly pay the forint in the respective object snows. They need help, too. Our amendment would have made this possible, and unfortunately you voted against it and have to account for it with your own conscience. There can be no normal and sane reason why the Government of Hungary should not help just a few thousand people in addition. Obviously, this calls for an explanation on your part. Similarly, there is a need for assistance in relation to those who have used a so-called loan pooling or loan relief scheme and may not have, in particular, only a debt cleared on a foreign exchange basis at the moment when they fall in, but indeed a series of economic disasters called foreign exchange credit have led to their situation being unsatisfactioned. We can also see that the number of people with mortgage debt that expired beyond 90 days was still above 118 thousand according to MNB data, so we can multiply the number of people in danger by the number of family members behind them into a very serious item, and we can also see that the so-called rescue package has helped only a very small part of the debtors - whatever type of rescue package - as there are still over 300 thousand foreign currency credit contracts to which and the people behind them, I stress that you have not been able to provide any assistance in four years with a two-thirds mandate. They themselves, pro-government officials and representatives acknowledged that the exchange rate barrier system is only easier for those who can rotate the savings on the stock exchange or other means, they can achieve a higher return than the average person who does not deal with such operations, and then they can ease their situation by retrieving some of this higher return. But this is not the Hungarian reality, this is not the reality. Therefore, it might have helped if at least a partial auction moratorium had been added to this eviction moratorium, for what would happen to these debtors and to those who owe them. If you act against someone, say, under the heading of foreign currency debt, start execution, auction your apartment, what happens? The auction buyer immediately acquires this property, and all he has to do is wait for the eviction moratorium that will come to an end, when we don't know what it is, so you either settle the problem with a bill signed on a blank cheque, as you promised, or not, as experience has shown in the last four years. However, it can be seen that an auction moratorium would have been very helpful, and even the consideration and professional discussion of a partial implementation moratorium could have been able to achieve that the debts in certain types of execution should not be artificially saturated until the property is in concrete danger. [[18.50]] You can see that now, according to your communication, you are hoping that this will put pressure on the banking system - in itself this proposal - to force them to agree with debtors. In reality, banks will only feel the minimal reduction in payment morale by customers, as the danger of immediate eviction may seem to be eliminated, but in itself it does not shake the banking system, it does not force it into any form of action. You've already tried to get the banks to understand. They were given a deadline after they went very hard, and then they didn't put anything on the table. They tried to change the wolves to a vegetarian diet. They tried to ensure that banks who operated a hundreds of billion-dollar money-stealing pump in Hungary to the detriment of the Hungarian population, assisted by the current state supervisory bodies, with the approval in many cases. So we have to say that if you think that what we have here is sufficient and not just a symptomatic treatment, then there is a very big problem. After all, we need to see that so-called foreign exchange loans could still be protected if there were a certificate on the table that the bank had accepted currency, from here, for that; there would be a document, a paper, and it could be backed up, could defend, say, in court, that, yes, there was a withdrawal of currency, the debtor had received currency, it was used correctly or incorrectly. But no bank is capable of complying with these investigations in all respects in a fair way. We're talking about existing lawsuits, we're talking about actual victims, so I can only suggest you negotiate with some of these people. Sit down with a few civilians, defenders, lawyers, who in practice, in reality, are trying to protect real foreign exchange credentials from a banking system whose activity is bleeding from a thousand wounds, and in a normally functioning country, the defendants' bench should be full of them. There is a possibility - I am talking again about existing cases - that the exchange rates in the contracts simply don't fit. The contract includes a 1997 exchange rate - I will quote the specific number of cases - of 137 HUF, which was already included in the contract signed in 2007 against the then 153 HUF exchange rate. The result is that the borrower received HUF 1.3 million less, as the bank could have given that debtor so much less after converting or not converting the currency allegedly received by reference to a exchange rate of 10 years earlier. But they should also apply the credit institution law as a matter of urgency, because at the moment, if we are to set a ceiling on interest rates - and we should be very specific whether it is a euro-based loan or a Swiss franc loan - we are still meeting with incredible interest rates. Under the current Act on Credit Institutions, which you have amended, interest rates can still be set at between 36 and 39 percent, and that is only interest. Other costs will come to light, but it can be seen that if a person can levy 16 times the base rate of the central bank, there is no legal economic activity in Hungary that can produce this. A Hungarian entrepreneur cannot make 16 times the profit for the money received, and a Hungarian citizen cannot, in particular, give back this enormous, unjustified burden. Therefore, the objective could only be to clean up the extra-interest costs in the contracts and to save at least this sphere of bank play by cutting a ceiling on interest rates at least for transactions that are called foreign exchange credit. After all, it is clear that banks, even in international markets, may have the least income from interest. In essence, they make a living by creating 100 forints with lending, lending, stock exchanges with the public's money, and virtual money units created after that, but that huge and amazing level of interest and playing with interest rates and exchange rates, which is typical in Hungary, has not occurred in any other European country, and could not have happened, since the public supervision system could have intervened. Therefore, we can only imagine, and only forinting, the forinting at the exchange rate at the time of admission as a solution. They should simply state in a law that nothing can be accounted for in a foreign currency if it is not included in an actual conversion. And there would also be an enforcement part of this imagined law that it would be obliged to establish a new balance of the bank concerned even if the claim had already been transferred, and in the case of this new balance, if there is an overpayment, not on the basis of the central bank base rate, but on the basis of the brutally high interest rate in the contract, it would also be possible for the citizen to receive as much as he could have done for the financial institution under this not-so-fair contractual form. And you have to see that the cabaret that you've been running around the motion for private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy over the last few years is just pathetic. The reason why we call it pathetic is that in 2010, when Jobbik raised the importance of this, KDNP campaigned against family bankruptcy. Since then, the MSZP has brought it up three or four times from time to time. Your idea, the KDNP idea, which, by the way, could not have come before the House, because it was canceled at committee level in order to talk about it, but there is no need for concrete action, there is also a very big mistake in the MSZP idea that you would order a paid bankrupt who would have a say in the family's budget. At the same time, Jobbik does not want to decide whether to make money for the elderly parent's treatment or for the child's tuition. We would like to put a free-of-charge legal helper next to the injured families, who will help us renegotiate the conditions with the creditor financial institution, to clean up the financial waste that has unduly affected the population - again, continuing and alongside the assistance of public bodies - and, secondly, with free re-training programmes, we should lead as many people as possible back to the labour market from those who are indestructible, ruined, because the loss of jobs and financial inability are almost always hand-in-hand, one from the other. And in Hungary, we can have no other purpose than to provide the toughest safety net possible over these victims, and, in addition, we will ensure that the victims, the poor and the later aided again become productive members of society, working, happy, able to start and maintain a family, and ultimately willing and willing to have children, our fellow citizens. Only this could be the basic national minimum in a fair country. By no means is it that, as the number of working breakfasts spent with the Banking Association increases exponentially, your willingness to take action is regularly reduced to the same degree and to the same extent. This is what is unacceptable in Hungary, which is why we should consider, in addition to the presentation we have just made, how to clean this financial garbage out of the national economy and how to finally turn Hungary from the banks' paradise into a paradise for people with safe lives. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-12-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer is the leader of the Group. Here you go.
u2014-05-12-52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We support the proposal itself, of course, but it must be said now that the smearing that began in spring 2010 will continue. The extension of the eviction moratorium - even if it is not subject to a deadline - does not solve anything in the world, has nothing to do with the liquidation of the foreign exchange credit crisis. May I also say, as you do to revolve your predecessors, that the Fidsz-KDNP is finally on the side of the people instead of the banks? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Here have been our proposals over the last few months on what action should be taken urgently to ensure that Parliament can bring justice to people who have suffered foreign exchange credit, what solutions would be urgently needed to finally eliminate the injustice caused by the whole foreign currency credit crisis. In the first instance, I would also like to refer to what was not specifically legislative. In the past, the Hungarian government, instead of a banking code of conduct, the Bajnai government and the Fidesz government, had the opportunity to lead this defective product out of the Hungarian banking sector in the previous years, as the Croatians or Poles did. They didn't. It would have been possible to negotiate with the Swiss central bank, the European Central Bank, a swap that would have provided the source page for the Hungarian commercial banks. They didn't do that either. In recent years, it would have been possible to remove this defective product. He didn't do it, he didn't do it, the fake left-wing governments didn't do it, and the Fidesz government didn't do it. [[19.00]] In recent months, the LMP has made the following proposals: let there be a clear legal statement that makes the judicial practice in Hungary mandatory, which, by the way, already applies in the European Union, that if a person makes an appeal to a court for invalidity in connection with a bank transaction, in connection with a consumer credit contract, the court should have an obligation to examine the whole of the contract. We also suggested that banks should not be allowed to flee to different factor companies in the case of foreign exchange credit contracts, there should be a legal prohibition on transferring these claims to firms with different half-criminal backgrounds of banks. It is not okay that once a group of banks have concluded such unspeakable contracts, it is not okay that if banks have licked up the extra profit in connection with foreign exchange credit contracts over the last ten years, they will not dare to look people in the eye, but will employ all kinds of thugs and semi-criminal companies to collect claims. We have suggested that it be prohibited to factor such debts, that the banks themselves ensure that if they want to enforce their demands. You also voted against this proposal, in which you sided with the banks instead of families threatened with eviction. We said that the shame should no longer occur, that once the Hungarian state has allowed such transactions to mislead the masses of families, then various groups of half-criminals will break into the house for the elderly, families with small children, sick people and make them land runners. We said that this situation should be eliminated; Fidesz-KDNP said no to this proposal. We also proposed in January with my fellow Members, Gábor Vágó and Katalin Ertsey, that the Civil Code should state in black and white that it is forbidden to conclude a foreign currency loan agreement in the future. That's what we suggested - you said no to that too. Fidesz-KDNP said no to the LMP proposal so that at least in the future it would not be possible to enter into such a type of transaction. Yes, you sided with the banks on this, supported the banks, feared that if such a proposal passed the two-thirds majority, then perhaps the Banking Union would look the other way. Then we had the proposal, and in today's legislative committee debate it was mentioned that if the banks have been able to get rich in the last ten years or exactly after 2001 - since the entire foreign currency credit circus started at the end of the term of office of the first Orbán government, with a government decree that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán wrote - so after 2001 the banks were able to get an extra profit from foreign exchange credit transactions, after which they would not be allowed to turn families into landowners with a simple enforcement clause. But I go further: it is not fair that, if such transactions have deceived people, they have not allowed the consumer to be in a decision-making position, he can consider all the circumstances of such a credit agreement, then any property may be subject to enforcement on the basis of a notary deed. We say that if there is such an information asymmetry between the consumer, the ordinary citizen and the banks, then there should always be a judicial path everywhere. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, our fellow Member Aradski pointed out that there is already an EU directive which requires a judicial procedure, an EU directive that requires a judicial procedure in the case of a consumer credit contract of this kind. Even though my fellow Member Aradski is shaking his finger and his head, he said so himself, it is on the record. I did not say that the government has failed so far, I wish I could say that, but since you know very well that there is such an EU directive, what prevents you from adopting this amendment, which the LMP has tabled. All we say is that in the case of foreign exchange loans, we rule out the possibility of looting people from judicial redress. That's all we're saying. Once again, you are afraid of what the Banking Association will say and will side with the banks again. That's the thing. There was a clear statement here, and you have made a statement. Our offer was that once we knew exactly what tragedies these types of transactions have caused over the past 13 years, that if we know exactly that tens of thousands of families have been simply deceived by financial institutions, it is quite simply impossible to distinguish between objects subject to implementation. Whether enforcement is applied to consumer goods or property, judicial procedures, judicial protection must be ensured. It is necessary to ensure judicial protection only because in recent years there have been a number of final, supreme court or mansion decisions that have actually sided with consumers, on the side of simple people. Moreover, in relation to such credit transactions, not only the validity concerns arising from the decision of the Curia or the Constitutional Court may arise. Unfortunately, the Curia no longer examined at the end of last year the relationship between foreign exchange credit contracts and credit institutions law. There is a general concern about the validity of contracts of this type not only in relation to the traditional rules of the Ptk. and other consumer protection rules, but also that such contracts simply violate the prudential rules of the current credit institution law. It can be assumed that when the bank decides on the issue of a loan, it will have to examine the performance of the potential debtor. In a type of loan transaction where it is not possible to predict exactly how much the debt to be repaid will be in two, ten, fifteen or twenty years' time, on what basis can the bank carry out this collateral investigation, on what basis can it say that, where appropriate, an asset, a real estate is sufficient cover for lending? The Civil Code, both the old and the new, clearly provides that the treaty which is in breach of the law is null and void. If, and if, for example, the Curia would say that such transactions violate the rules of the credit institution law on prudent supervision - because it was impossible for the bank to examine the performance of such foreign exchange credit contracts before the conclusion of such foreign exchange credit contracts as otherwise required by the credit institution law or the internal banking regulations - then I think that foreign currency credit contracts fall, as is the case. I'm telling you, this is a question the Curia hasn't even looked at yet. We're standing here now. All we ask is for the Parliament to at least provide a judicial path for the people whose currency loans have fallen short, and Fidesz-KDNP is now saying no. We ask nothing more than not to make simple families, elderly people, families with small children run for their lives, especially on the basis of a notary deed. That's all we're asking, that's all we've been asking for over the past few months, and you said no. The eviction moratorium alone is not enough, the eviction moratorium alone continues to leave uncertainty as the sword of Damocles over the heads of families, since it is not known when and how this eviction moratorium will end. In addition, those who are not led to their home but to their other assets have also suffered the same foreign currency credit, so they should at least be protected by judicial law. And to banks, it must be prohibited that once they have acted unfairly, these claims are transferred to a collecting company and do not have to face the eyes of the people who have been deceived. Therefore, we can support the proposal itself, of course, but it is terribly few; as there is a terrible lack of what you have done in the last four years to manage the foreign exchange crisis, because it seems that this government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, is more afraid of banks, of the opinion of the Banking Association than of the tragedies caused by this foreign currency crisis, which is the end of 2001 in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-53	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2014-05-12-54	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Lukács has already spoken on behalf of our group, he has said many things that have happened in the last four years and what we have proposed, but I would also like to start with a little reflection. Firstly, indeed, foreign currency lending started in Hungary on the basis of a law adopted in 2001; this was in the period of the first Orbán government. You say this few times, but again in this debate. [[19.10]] In 2008, a global economic crisis broke out all over the world, and indeed, this temporarily had a very bad effect on the exchange rate of the forint, a lot of people were in difficulty, so the socialist governments of the time considered it their primary task to stabilise the exchange rate of the forint as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. The next date, which I have to mention in this respect, is April 2010, since there was a Swiss franc at that time of 185 forints; this is the currency in which most foreign currency loans were borrowed, so I will mention it anyway. At the time of the change of government, so in 2010, the exchange rate was 185 in this respect, and obviously the situation of the economy was different. Today, the exchange rate of Swiss francs is HUF 250, so the situation is much worse. This obviously includes the activities of the past four years, and many are very difficult to deal with, very difficult, some with a 70% increase in their repayments in one month. This is an unbearable burden for a significant part of families. You have actually taken some steps in this situation in recent years, for example, there has been a final repayment at a fixed rate of HUF 180, but this has helped those who were more wealthy, who have been able to redeem these loans with a HUF-based loan, or they or their environment have had as much cash as they have been able to redeem it. It is not difficult to think that the most difficult people who have been hit by your actions, social policy, economic policy, have not had the opportunity to live with it, they are in an increasingly difficult situation. And as Zoltán Lukács said, you have also been talking for five years about introducing legislation on private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy. This is not being tabled, nor has the House been able to discuss it, nor have they wanted to deal with those who are in the most difficult queue in these years, nor have they supported our proposals. It has also been said that we have submitted legislation on this three times in the previous term, and we have re-submitted this plan on private bankruptcy today, in order to help those most in difficulty. But you've also decided on an apartment park in Ocsa, spent over 2.5 billion on this project. A substantial number of apartments could have been bought elsewhere with this money. It's an amazing price to pay for a square meter in the apartment park in Ocsa, which could have been bought in the most expensive parts of the country. Therefore, this case will in no way solve the problem of foreign exchange lenders. Indeed, the eviction moratorium has been constantly extended in recent years, but this is actually an admission that the problems of foreign exchange lenders, those who have been in a really difficult situation, have not been resolved, have not been resolved. With eviction moratorium as a symptomatic treatment, this problem has been constantly postponed, and we now see that it will continue to be postponed indefinitely. Why do I say that? Because there was an amendment here, which my fellow Member spoke about, this amendment would have imposed on Parliament until 30 September a certain obligation to establish so far the comprehensive legislation on the fate of foreign exchange legislaters that we are talking about. This amendment was voted off, and, if I know correctly, there was a discourse before the legislative committee whether or not they could accept a date of 31 December, which was not accepted either. So you can clearly see their intentions: sometime after the municipal election, and then someday they'll deal with this problem somehow, until then you can talk about it or show the picture as if you wanted to solve it. Of course, as has been said, we are also in favour of this legislation, because in the situation in which you are not presenting the solution, we also consider it important that at least no further eviction takes place, for those who are in a difficult situation without their own fault, this moratorium of eviction is a temporary solution. We have proposed a number of things, we have mentioned - or have mentioned - the introduction of a private or family failure institution, which has not been done. If they were to pursue an economic policy that would result in a stronger forint exchange rate, there would obviously not be so many insolvents; and they also talked a lot about the social housing programme, but much less has happened in this case. The asset manager could also have a task, instead of the housing park in Ocsa, we need, say, a social housing program. These proposals have been swept away in recent years, and I have no illusions about what will come next in the coming months, and we would like to draw attention to them, and we will continue to bring them to the House. There was also an amendment tabled by a fellow Member of the Fidesz of Miskolc. Katalin Csöbör didn't say it was a nesting case, but he was actually talking about it wrapped up. His amendment directly refers to this, since according to the proposed amendment, under certain circumstances this type of eviction moratorium would not apply to certain dwellings, to persons living in certain dwellings; here he means when a municipality initiates implementation or is a 100% owned trust firm. He didn't say much about this, but I have to say a few thoughts about the Nest Puzzle case, because we were very much looking forward to this amendment proposal from the Congresswoman, who spoke two weeks ago about the fact that it will be the first bill of Parliament to discuss, so she will come up with a proposal for a solution here. Since many people do not know this matter in this House or in the public, I have to say a few sentences about why we are talking about this when we are talking about eviction moratorium, why we are bringing this up. In Miskolc, a series of frauds began on many, hundreds of residential properties, where the first cases were at the height of 2006-2007. Private property is concerned, since private owners have taken advantage of and abused the state aid system, and people have moved into the residential communities, especially in Miskolc, in relation to the Avas housing site, who later created serious social tensions and problems in the particular environment. This phenomenon was detected by an MSZP municipal representative on Avason and filed a complaint in 2008. So when the statement - not for the first time anyway - that the MSZP and the then local government had anything to do with it, we have to say that it was, of course: it sensed that there was a crime committed here, one of the local government representatives made a specific complaint in this case. And during the mayorship of Sándor Káli, the then MSZP municipality, began to solve this problem. Obviously, the kind of police investigation that involved much less residential property at the time was launched, and the municipality acquired ownership of several properties that were affected by this case. In these residential properties, they were renovated to move police, so it was a kind of rental program for the police, police and police families. This programme has actually begun to eliminate that social and very complex problem, but you have stopped this programme. It was 300 million forints separated in 2010 in the municipality's budget to continue to solve the problem, when you came, they stopped the solution. In the spring, early summer of 2010, when Parliament first spoke about the moratorium on eviction four years ago, on your proposal at the beginning of the cycle, we proposed in an amendment that the Parliament accept the moratorium on eviction without hindering the solution of the nesting problem. You voted against this proposal at the time, in the summer of 2010, and otherwise did not propose anything. So they stopped a working programme and made it legally impossible to deal with this issue. What I see today is that for four years here in Parliament, instead of these cases, you have proposed nothing to deal with Avas's problems, to solve the nesting case. [[19.20]] We had several proposals later, these proposals were rejected, including the fact that, in the context of the enforcement law, the 173 properties concerned, for which you purchased claims, were to contribute to the resolution of such social problems of Miskolc: you did not contribute - the municipality's budget is the one you spoke about today. In addition, the fact that this problem has been drawn up for four years has resulted in the accumulation of terrible public utility charges, and due to the non-payment of the common cost, the pay ethic on Avas has deteriorated further, and the operation of the condominiums has become impossible, in many places the elevator does not work or, where appropriate, there is no lighting in the stairwells. This is obviously unacceptable, and the fact that it was allowed for four years to continue to depreciate this environment and the real estate itself. Two of our proposals were voted out in this respect. However, what you have proposed today is a very small and very late step, so we will obviously support it, but this will not solve the problem caused by the inaction of the past four years, especially at other points in the city of Avason, but also in Miskolc. That is why we believe that there is a need for a complex solution in which Parliament's decision is needed, so in the next period we will propose a complex solution proposal with my fellow Members in order to ensure order, to eliminate social tensions in the city of Miskolc and in the part of the city of Avas. This could have been done four years ago to the two thirds of the time and now, since you had and have all the options to deal with this problem. They have two thirds, and they're going to run Miskolc for a few more months anyway. I suggest that we do not wait for the time when we will replace the municipality you run, but that we try to do something in these months, because every day, every week, every month is expensive in this case. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-55	I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2014-05-12-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal before us is a very important issue and much has been said before me. I had the feeling when we discussed this proposal in front of the committee that the Fidesz-KDNP MEPs had made it look like they had just come to government, and they wouldn't have had four years to solve the problem. For example, on the proposal of András Schiffer - which we supported, by the way, because it was a good proposal, even if he tried to work out a partial solution properly - the answer was that when the whole package was presented, it would be a good idea, and now the otherwise eligible ideas should not be dealt with separately. So if they hadn't had four years to solve it, and if in 2010 the issue of foreign exchange loans hadn't been on the agenda and there was no problem. After that, and of course, what Dániel Z. Karpát said, we can support this proposal to extend the moratorium, but to boast that we are talking again at the beginning of the second or third, the second and absolute third Fidesz government, that the moratorium extension is the present solution, it is outrageous and outrageous. I would also like to say, because it is an important moment that we do not expect that the real problem can be solved to the extent that you have brought about here, and this is nothing more than the forinting, or even this is a little misleading, but rather the finding that most of these loans have not been created in foreign currency. To do this, in order to see any evidence of this, it would be enough to talk to the lawyers, the defenders, the homeowners who are trying to represent these people in the courts, and, indeed, more and more lawsuits have recently come to light that there is no currency behind these transactions. Unfortunately, any other proposal for a solution will lead you astray, and you will not be able to get to the real solution. Here and to mention one or two examples, also joining my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, in fact, most of the loan contracts did not actually include the fact that the contract laid down the exact amount of currency that the client belongs to, so they did not exist in foreign currency, and the transfer of these amounts was clearly made in HUF, and the bank also started these references in HUF, came into customers' accounts in HUF, and the banks could not prove a conversion before it in almost 100 percent of the cases. So, for example, when converting documents are requested before the courts, they cannot be presented. So in this situation, we should consider which organs did not perform their duties when they left this whole process. I can even think of the prosecutor's office here, because even the criminal case of fraud involves the fact that, unfortunately, banks did not actually grant foreign exchange loans as much as 100 percent of the time. If you look at how banks actually hold these debts in their books, in their balance sheets, in what currency they do not hold these debts, or in what currency they do not, you will see that they are registered in forints and lead to a double bookkeeping that shows this debt to the client in foreign currency, but in official balance sheets, in books, look at it: it is shown in forints. Therefore, it is not true that banks would be harmed if they were found, by counting back, that they were actually forint loans. But beyond that - and this is preposterous, too, that no one is dealing with this, and in Hungary the banks can do that without any control, a kind of black double bookkeeping, and no public body will be able to see who's responsible or which other bodies are responsible for making it this far. Unfortunately, it should be examined, and I hope that the government will use some sort of referral to do so, as well as the responsibility of notaries when they have automatically signed contracts with customers that they have received from the banks, the text of which they have only been automatically read to customers, and without having any legal control, or what can be expected of the notary when he makes an authentic instrument to examine whether it is legally correct, they have failed to do so. For example, such documents include prior recognition by the client of the statement that the bank will present to it in 20 years or at any time within 20 years. These are serious violations that someone should now investigate, and people expect you to do so, but unfortunately they have not been able to have it in the last four years. Here I might even add that, yes, this is true even for land offices, which in many cases have registered mortgage rights or other charges on real estate by submitting inadequate documents or incomplete documents to them. This, too, in many cases, and in most cases, has not made eye contact with anyone, and it seems that when a proposal comes from the bank or a multi-company, it is completely accepted by the public authorities and agencies without any criticism, even though it does not comply with the Hungarian legislation in force. This practice would have to end in order for anything to change in this country. And then I'll ask you another question that comes up in your brain, which is very authentic to a lot of foreign currency or currency, and you couldn't get an answer to that, and there's no official answer to that, that even if we accept what we don't do, that they were created in a foreign currency, then how is it that, although the central bank base rate in Switzerland has already fallen to almost zero, they started to raise these interest rates rapidly in Hungary. If it is tied to the Swiss franc and whether it is tied or tied to the Swiss franc LIBOR, the interest on these loans to the currency and the repayment of the loan should have been reduced, and this was not the case. It did not strike anyone that it was true that the unilateral amendment of the contract was allowed by Hungarian legislation - this is also a scandal, why, but now it is good, they make it possible - but this cannot be practiced in bad faith. So, the fact that the bank can unilaterally amend a contract, which is also a scandal, cannot do so by the way, in Switzerland, the central bank base rate is almost zero, and in the meantime, they are happy to raise these interest rates, which are paid to the client. [[19.30]] Now, the cases that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has also said that there are cases where there are not the exchange rates in the contract that are official exchange rates, we have also seen ten years of difference, I think they are almost in the criminal category again, and should be considered this way, but on the part of the prosecutor's office we also did not see that they were involved. I would also like to raise one or two very important points: we have also repeatedly proposed a restructuring of the enforcement system in this regard. We would like to eliminate the possibility that the system of judicial enforcement could be a profit-oriented, profitable, very profitable profession. We have made a number of proposals to ensure that the state organises it in its own jurisdiction, and not for profit-oriented market interests, but for the right treatment of people and people in the most miserable situations. This was tabled directly in the previous term as a parliamentary decision proposal, and we tried to make it a minimum so that you would not be able to get involved and vote on the principle, but at that time in the Constitutional Committee they said that there was no plan and that they did not want to abolish the current independent judicial enforcement system and that I would not like to organise judicial executions by state. This is also a scandal, and you are giving your blessing to continue the current practice of self-abuse enforcement in the courts, just as it is not even clear in the current legislation how and in what way the statute of limitations can take place. So if someone, say, was forced to go to London - and a lot of people had to leave because they couldn't pay their multiple debt, the currency repayments, they had to flee the country because the government didn't help them, and they left them on the side of the road despite their preliminary promises - they went out, and they thought that if they came back five years later, their problem would be solved, because they might have lost the debt they had. Well, unfortunately, that is not the case, because according to the current laws, it is not possible to determine exactly what will interrupt the statute of limitations in the enforcement procedure, and at the moment, unfortunately, I must say that it also makes people vulnerable. So there are a lot of tasks that need to be resolved at last. After four years, we can't accept any explanation. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-12-57	Congressman Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2014-05-12-58	Ladies and gentlemen, They will certainly remember 2001, they will remember Viktor Orbán, they will remember György Matolcsy, they will remember Járai, from the President of the Central Bank to the Minister of Economic Affairs, and they will remember György Matolcsy. Now, this is the year 2001, when the story basically started. I am just saying and quoting the actors so that they can be clear and identifiable at all times when we talk about these issues, who the story of concluding unilateral contracts is related to. The other part does not look back this far, but only for four years. I can say with one sentence that four years, two thirds of nothing to do with this case. Yes, doing nothing, or better-cased, or I can say that it is also a multitude of harmful activities. In addition to the fact that there were partial, partial stakeholders who became beneficial beneficiaries of the measures, they were far fewer than those who could not benefit from government measures. So I have to say that three or four years ago, more than four or five years ago, the case is now on the table, and you have been idly watching the progress of the processes, waiting for where the Curia's decision was, forsaking, doing a lot of other things. With the extension of the eviction moratorium, we naturally agree, there is no difference in opinion, but we must add that this alone does not solve the problem. This is neither enough nor a definitive solution, and I must add that it carries an increase in the problem, and that at a later date the person concerned will be in a situation where the story becomes even more unmanageable. Last year there were about 120,000 credentials, 15,000 forced sales were appointed, and overall they also know that 234 were the measures combined with auctioning. But what kind of measures you've taken, in the headlines. Final repayment. [[István Szilárd Németh: 170,000 families!]] You know, you know, the end-payment that was passed here in Parliament, which was about the fact that even the National Tax and Customs Office could not examine the origins of the HUF 10-20-50 million that my fellow Members, if any, paid back some HUF 10 million. This payback isn't about people who were most vulnerable to this story, no. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 170,000 offshores in Hungary?]] The beneficiaries who shouldn't have given a helping hand to that effect, because they can solve the problem themselves. You know, that's what you have to stand up to the public, that's what you have to tell people, and that's what you have to do. But the same could be said, obviously, about what they did with regard to the apartment complex in Ocsa. You know, about the HUF 2700 million investment combined with specific prices above the square metre of the property in Buda, and we can see how and how this story is exploited and how it is used. Well, I could go on with this practically indefinitely, but I do not, but I would rather say two sentences about the story that my fellow Member Katalin Csöbör projected in advance. I'd like to add that for four years it wasn't important to Fidesz. In fact, in 2010 he prevented it, and now, as a substitute act, he brings up something that is only such a partial and partial solution, and it is not satisfactory, because, let us say, I do not know how and how she thinks about dealing with matters until the final judgment is reached, and many kinds of questions could be asked. But I would like to say with one sentence that whatever decision is made in this regard in connection with the so-called Nest-program story, I think that the minimum is to have organizational control of the local government on the ground, and not the "guarding eye" of one person, the present mayor, if any, because we fear the fire, as we fear the activity of the past four years, which is behind us in Miskolc. [[Intercoms: Time! It's over!]] So it would be better not to take such measures, but to carry out tangible activities that would benefit those involved. Time. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-59	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-12-60	Mr President, Dear House, I understand on the part of the MSZP that as a opposition party, you have to eat everything you face, but at least don't make the only payback without thinking, which I'm not saying helped everyone, because by far you didn't, you only helped a lucky social class who had a spare or 15-20 million in the credenza. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Not even a million! 15-20 million?]] But that was, I beg you, the only viable idea that's been on the table for four years. [[Intercoms.]] However, there was a long MSZP government there when, in conjunction with the public oversight system, they missed the amazing one-sided interest rate increases and the spread of the exchange rate gap, and this is also our proposal for the government sector to touch it. According to the calculation of www.azenpenzem.hu, the current repayment of an average foreign currency loan could still be reduced by 15 percent compared to the current one, if unilateral interest rate increases and the exchange rate gap could be either definitively abolished or routed out of the system. In addition to extending the moratorium, we would like to ask you to be able to talk about real solutions, real deadlines, accountable people, because, in itself, the statement that comes from the Prime Minister that we will settle the problem by the end of the next term - this is the cycle - we very much hope that it is a statement and not a professional position. It would be life-threatening for the credit-damaged, if the current two-thirds government spent four years plotting this problem, instead of immediately solving this and making those financial institutions account, but only those responsible for tearing apart the families, lives and life opportunities of Hungarian people. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-12-61	Congressman András Schiffer has the floor.
u2014-05-12-62	Dear Parliament, Speaking of my fellow Member Staudt here about the amendment to the implementing law last year, I have a sharp memory of this debate. At the time, we were sitting in the back, and there was a KDNP promise that was about like family bankruptcy. KDNP always jumps out with it, and it's a never-ending story to campaign for KDNP, which never actually campaigns. [[19.40]] What happened then was that KDNP had largely nodded that yes, order should be made in the enforcement system, because it was a completely screwed-up model that was introduced in '94 that independent bailiffs were operating practically without effective state control. Once the executive apparatus enforces the state's will, we have good reason to believe that the real place for this would actually be within the judicial system. Then the Christian Democrats, I believe, Mr Tarnai, said that this is a great proposal, they will consider it. This is about as far as family bankruptcy is concerned: Mr Harrach said today, and I think he said the same thing literally in May 2010. The fact is that what Mr Staudt has just said, in particular, what kind of validity anomalies might otherwise be in each foreign currency loan contract, in the current situation, it is indeed necessary to examine this case-by-case, contract-to-contract, since it is not the same type of and not the same depth of validity problems that may arise. Now, this problem is even more stressing the need to allow every single credit victim to go to court. Therefore, at least the judicial path should not exclude credit victims, since the legal cases of recent years also show that, for example, if only a judicial forum puts the rule on the balance, whether the consumer was sufficiently informed at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement, whether there were elements or factors with exchange rate risk that fundamentally affect an essential element of the contract, I think that blocking people off the judicial path means that Parliament does not actually assume its responsibility to pour clear water into the glass. It has been seen in recent years that the existing legislation has already encouraged the courts to declare nullity in a significant part of the foreign exchange credit contracts. In comparison, a number of families are in a situation where enforcement is carried out on the basis of enforceable documents for their property, property, apartments. In this Parliament, it must act; as should be done - and I am curious about the position of Fidesz in this circle - how long it can be tolerated that banks that have cheated people with such foreign exchange credit transactions can then freely transfer their claims to firms with such dubious backgrounds. We've made a suggestion to put an end to this wiener. You guys swept this off the table once. I wonder if, at the beginning of the new cycle, Fidesz-KDNP's opinion has changed, as well as I would like to know if the two-thirds majority would be a partner in the fact that the Civil Code is saying that foreign currency credit transactions are prohibited in black and white. We once proposed this. For the past 13 years, we have seen the damage caused by such a defective product, not just to families, to the entire national economy. It's time to put a clear ban on this at Ptk. I am also talking about the fact that this is not just a problem for individual families, individual creditors, because in recent years the entire foreign currency credit crisis has hindered the development of the national economy itself. In the fact that the 2010 Matolcsy programme failed, there is a strong foreign currency crisis, since it was not possible for a sober finance minister to hope that when families are drowning and even wealthy people have a big problem with the repayment of foreign currency loans, the single-key tax would in some way boost consumption. That didn't happen. The fact that this expectation of György Matolcsy has not come true is a major part of this whole foreign currency crisis. It would be time for a full cycle of two-thirds of the majority to finally establish clean relations. A ban on foreign exchange credit transactions should be imposed, it should be prohibited for banks to transfer these claims to debt firms and it should be prohibited to implement any asset on the basis of a notary deed on the basis of a foreign exchange loan transaction. It should also be considered that the eviction moratorium, as suggested by other opposition representatives, should not only arise in the case of narrow foreign exchange lending transactions, but also when an unfortunate family has taken on a HUF loan and drowned in the forint loan in order to otherwise repay its currency debt with a completely uncertain exchange rate movement. I think that these would be the steps that would be meaningful. The extension of the eviction moratorium alone is the further smearing of the problem. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-63	Thank you. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2014-05-12-64	Mr President, Dear House, It is quite clear to us that we need a comprehensive consumer protection raid that reveals the damage suffered by all the banks concerned against all the population and, by the way, small businesses in Hungary. So, of course, it is possible to say a variety of prohibitions, lay down and inculcate a lot of things for the future, but we must say that many cases are bleeding from thousands of wounds, and that we can act immediately on them. So the fact that a 2007 contract, which is now before the court, could result in a 1997 Swiss franck exchange rate and, therefore, could be damaged by a million-dollar amount of damage to a victim who had already received less money than would have been appropriate at the moment of so-called borrowing, can be proved in a matter of moments, with consequences, and accountable. On the same basis, if any dispute arises, why is it impossible to pass a law under which any evidence could be requested within seconds that the bank did so, in what way, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when the amount of the so-called currency was involved? If you can't show it, you've failed the case. This is how it works in every country with a normal market economy. Unfortunately not in our case. And then, when the currency and HUF amounts in the contract simply do not correspond, so it is not possible to find an exchange rate on the basis of which they would comply, again, both consumer protection and public supervisory bodies should act. So, in itself, finding a solution for the future is a very good intention, and it can be appreciated and reflected, but we can say that there are cases of a thousand wounds that should be dealt with immediately. Even because the so-called rescue packages have helped only a part of the debtors involved and only a very small part. Even in the case of so-called restructuring loans, about 50 percent of the victims became non-performing again; in fact, in the case of foreign exchange housing loans, 45 percent had become non-performing even after the restructuring, 53 percent in the case of free-use mortgages, and almost three quarters of the forint-based free-use mortgage loans fell again after the restructuring. So with cosmetics, sprinkled talcum powder on the open wound, such problems cannot be solved. With a system-wide consumer raid, a detailed accountability of the data subjects, yes, because even the system of the exchange-rate barrier you worshiped is essentially a huge sum between the exchange rate set in the exchange-rate barrier and the actual admission rate, leaving this amount to the perpetrator, the bank that gave the client a defective product and misplaced. Unfortunately, Jobbik is the only one wishing to return this huge billion-dollar mass of money, by the way, restoring the original state to the highest possible level for the owners, and making sure that there is finally someone in Hungary who will protect these people and who can breathe life back into the dried-up national economy in some way. Because until you resolve this problem in this cycle, the dried-up state of the Hungarian national economy cannot be resolved. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-05-12-65	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] If not, the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári says yes.]] Yes, I'll give you the floor.
u2014-05-12-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The question is very serious for hundreds of thousands of families, as it cuts into their flesh whether or not they are threatened with eviction. Fortunately, few are at this stage of the implementation process. But I think that one or two of my fellow Members have taken this problem too lightly or lightly. The fact that it is merely a smear to extend the eviction moratorium, try to say that to the eyes of the opposition fellow who is standing right there, that he will be homeless. For him, this is a meaningful and timely help. [[19.50]] It was also noticeable that the Parliament did not meet for several months, because it shared with us many thoughts about the eviction moratorium, even those that were far from near the amendment of this implementing law, which lies on the table of Parliament. The criticisms that said that this was not a final solution: we know this very well, we did not submit it as a proposal for a solution to the foreign exchange credit problem, but a proposal that is necessary for everyone to wait in their apartment for the bill to solve the foreign exchange credit problem, and not for homeless people outside their home. Those comments, I think, by Nándor Gúr, that the final repayment meant washing tens of millions of illegal assets, honourable Member, here 170,000 people are charged with this kind of illegal accumulation of wealth, and on the other hand, if you were a little informed, you would know that an average of HUF 4-5 million of loans was issued, which means that an average two-room apartment was replaced with a three-bedroom apartment, and that is why they are in great trouble, so that 170,000 families are accused of such illegal activity, who has been cancelled, is very daring. With regard to the judicial journey, ladies and gentlemen, you can see very well how contrary the decisions of the courts are to you. One court upholds a clause, the other declares it unfair. In one court, an unfair clause can be remedied, in the other court the entire contract can be annulled, the whole contract is invalid. So as many courts, as many practices, so when you refer to court practice here, you can only refer to the fact that the judicial journey has not actually resulted, despite waiting for the courts to have a unified practice, and although we are confident that the Curia will make a decision as soon as possible, it is worth extending the eviction moratorium until then, since the court judgments have been very contradictory so far. By the way, the amendment of the implementing law to the promised Christian Democrat was also made, and here Parliament has negotiated a package of laws that improved its legislative leg in the enforcement procedures, and a government decree has been issued, which then sought to improve these procedures at regulation level, although there is obviously additional work to do so, but regardless of this, I believe that we have also made this promise in order to protect the vulnerable. What is the currency barrier, remember, fellow Members, that we have enlarged this and that this lifeline has reached so many people, because it has already been a multi-annual, multi-annually extended exchange barrier, which is essentially at the disposal of almost everyone who is struggling with financial problems arising from foreign exchange loans and who does not enter, essentially giving money to banks from month to month. To make this proposal fairer, you know very well that this eviction moratorium applies only to houseowners who are in debt in connection with foreign exchange lending, only to those who live in it, bought real estate, so it is not another real estate, only to their last real estate, so if someone has three or four other apartments, it does not apply to this discount, and only in the case of a foreign exchange loan, if they have not committed a crime in connection with the taking up of the loan, the acquisition of the apartment. And the lack of time limits, we hope, is an incentive in two directions, beyond the temporary security of the foreign exchange victims who would be facing eviction. On the one hand, it is an incentive for the Curia to make the decision of the legal unit as soon as possible, which will set the framework for our legislation in Parliament, which parts we need to replace, which the Curia does not solve with its decision as a legal unit; on the other hand, it is an incentive for the banks, since their enforcement procedures are stuck here, they cannot enforce these claims, they may already own the property, but they cannot sell it, so the properties are essentially unfit if the former owners live in, so the banks have become more interested in solving the problem. I trust that soon after the Curia's decision, we can return with the final rescue package and offer a real solution for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. I ask you to support the extension of the moratorium, despite the debate that has been raised, in any case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-67	Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place tonight, following the next joint debate. Dear Parliament, The XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly follows in a row. a consolidated debate on the amendment of laws and certain related laws. A separate motion by Gergely Gulyás and György Balla is made by T/104. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the legislative committee is T/104/9. T/104/10. and submitted a summary report. They are also available on the network. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 15-minute framework.
u2014-05-12-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to take advantage of one tenth of the 15 minutes that I have at my disposal, honourable Members. We talked a lot about the fact that in the previous term, the number of the current Parliament will be much smaller, almost half. There was also quite a lot to hear about the fact that the office of mayor, county assembly, deputy mayor and parliamentary representative are now incompatible, so it cannot be that a Member of Parliament performs two posts. Less has been said about the conflict not only of these posts but also of virtually all workable activities with regard to Members of Parliament. In Hungarian, those sitting in this room are full-time representatives. Accordingly, the previous Parliament also created the Act on Parliament, but in the meantime it has been found that in some of its places it is appropriate to specify that, even for the transitional period until the next municipal elections, our mayors and county general meeting presidents can carry out the task, for this transitional period, it is not possible for anyone to take a salary from two places or to take a salary from, say, Parliament and use the municipal vehicle. In addition to many others, this bill makes it virtually impossible. It makes it clear that a Member can only get one place, can only get a salary from Parliament, and also makes it clear that if the municipality uses its vehicle, it is not entitled to a petrol charge from Parliament. I see that this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, has been agreed by everyone, because there has not been a great debate at the committee meeting. There have been four amendments: the parties of the government, which the rapporteur supported, but it came from the socialists, which was also supported by the rapporteur, which we also supported, and it came from the LMP, which we could not support, but please, Mr Schiffer, don't give up, sooner or later it will also succeed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-69	Thank you. First, I will ask the government representative if he wishes to comment.
u2014-05-12-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The government supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-71	Thank you. Now we are going to get to know the position of the legislative committee. This will take 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence.
u2014-05-12-72	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not want to exhaust this time frame either, but I would just like to present the position of the legislative committee in a few minutes. T/104. Act No XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. It concerns the amendment of law and related laws, discussed by the committee and the provisions of house regulations 44. § (1) was found to be consistent. There have indeed been further proposals for amendments to this proposal. For MSZP representatives, see section 104/5. Mr Czunyiné Dr. Judit Bertalan 104/6. The Committee supported the amendment proposed by the Committee, as well as its amendment No 104/8. The Committee also maintained, subject to amendments, a better proposal. These proposals are also included in the summary proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-12-73	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Now the political groups can express their views for a period of 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent representatives can speak for a total of 8 minutes. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. I give the floor to Congresswoman Judit Bertalan, Mrs Czunyin. [[20.00]]
u2014-05-12-74	Dear House, Mr President, Thank you for the floor. On account of the previous speakers, I also believe that, given that, in the course of the Commission's negotiations, the proposal for a bill and the amendments tabled to it have indeed come to the same conclusion with regard to the objectives of the Parliamentary Act, I do not wish to give the floor a long term. Both the Commission's resolution and the part explaining the purpose of the bill clearly have Parliament's support. Please also ensure this support when the law is adopted. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-12-75	Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if anyone would like to speak, perhaps, against the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] There's no speaker. In that case, the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Congressman György Balla if he wishes to answer anything in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to answer. Then we will now continue our work with decision-making procedures. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows the resolution of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the promotion of international tax compliance and the publication of an agreement on the implementation of FATCA legislation and the amendment of certain related laws. I would like to remind you that by amending the agenda, we have decided that, in the absence of an amendment tabled, the legislative proposal can be decided today. No amendments have been tabled until the debate has started, so there is no obstacle to voting. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/57 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 153 votes in favour, no votes against and 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. a final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending the Act. The Legislative Committee T/59/8. a number of proposals for a summary amendment have been submitted. In the light of the derogation from the adopted house rules, amendments to the amendments which are not included in the summary amendment cannot be requested or a separate vote on certain points of the summarised amendment cannot be initiated. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/59/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 152 votes to five, with 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now have a final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended by the summary amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/59, as amended by the summary amendment. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 177 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly follows in a row. a decision and final vote on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and certain related laws. The legislative committee is T/104/9. a number of proposals for a summary amendment have been submitted. In the light of the derogation from the adopted house rules, amendments to the amendments which are not included in the summary amendment cannot be requested or a separate vote on certain points of the summarised amendment cannot be initiated. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 of the motion, we shall decide on this in two instalments. First, I put the points requiring a qualified majority to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the legislative committee will accept T/104/9. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 179 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. We now decide on points 1, 2, 10, 12 and 13 that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the legislative committee will accept T/104/9. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a simple majority, with 178 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We now have a final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill which has just been amended by the summary amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the basis of the fundamentality clause, this decision will also take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/104, as amended by the summary amendment. The qualified majority part of the bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] With 178 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention, Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/104, as amended by the summary amendment. The simple majority of the bill number 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] With 177 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention, the Parliament adopted the simple majority of the bill. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Today, Mr János Pócs spoke after the agenda: "The National Day of Self - Redemption in Jászkun. " Congressman's got the floor. [[It's a lot of noise.]] I'm ordering a two-minute technical break until you leave the room. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber now, because our fellow Member would still like to speak. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2014-05-12-76	Thank you, Mr. President. " The glory of our affairs is for us to run in the course of our lives with a torch that shines like a lamp. " Dear Parliament, Count Miklós Zrínyi poet and general XVII. I quote the idea of the 21st century, which is today, the 21st century. It is also inevitable for the first century. It is eternal, because in poetic language it encourages a nation's consciousness. For without respect for the ancestors, without preserving our traditions, there is no healthy national future. [[20.10]] It is a strange and also honored that the new Hungarian Parliament held its inaugural meeting on 6 May 2014 on the Hungarian National Day of Jászkun Self-Creation, which was adopted by the House on 4 February 2014, with its parliamentary decision, in the ranks of the Hungarian National Memorial Days. 269 years ago, on May 6, 1745, Queen Maria Theresa extended and strengthened their ancient privileges graciously bestowed on the Jas and Kun districts. In doing so, he restored the jas and kuns to their blood-acquired privileges. All of these were recorded and donated by a fine letter of privilege bound in velvet and endorsed by a large secret pendant seal. I quote: " To be graciously aware of their faithful and useful sacrifice to our ancestors, our ancestors, on various occasions and under various circumstances, by the shed of their blood, the late glorified Hungarian kings and the Holy Crown of the country, not least their own services and merits, which, in various cases, have performed and gained loyalty and benefit for the sake of the king, the empire, the common good, and as well as for the sake of our majesty, we have considered the privileges of these districts to be graciously confirmed and bestowed. " Dear Parliament, This anniversary encourages an active nation-consciousness, since the Hungarian National Memorial Day is a day different from everyday life of an outstanding historical event, which is recalled in a solemn and exalted manner in the content and appearance of the historical fact in question by organizing celebrations and commemorations. Despite their origin and language different from the Hungarians, the Jász and the Kuns became Hungarians who, in their language and national consciousness, are proud of their origins in the past, present and future. For centuries, Hungary has been served as a soldier on the basis of their privileges, and they have fulfilled their offer to our kings of the House of Árpád: to defend the country with blood. This concept and this patriotism are set out in Annex XXI to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. All the jas and kuns are their own in the century. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Jászkun's declaration of self-renewal as a Hungarian national memorial day, on behalf of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Bács-Kiskun, Pest county, Jászkun and co-governments and social organisations, please accept, as an expression of our appreciation, this occasion's honorary edition of Queen Maria Theresa's letter of privilege [[He's showing it to me.]] I wish you every success in your country-building work. Please allow me to conclude my speech with the details of a well-known lyric: " Jasok, kunak, avarok! They're all Hungarians now. In the middle of the Danube-Tisza, on the lap of our sweet country, our blood is joined together." Thank you for listening.
u2014-05-12-77	Thank you very much. On the government's side, I don't see any intention of commenting. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your time. We'll continue our work tomorrow at 2:00, and I'll close the meeting with this. [[Meeting ended at 8:13 p.m.]]
