u2014-12-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 27th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Mátyás Firtl, Mr KDNP:. Sopron: loyalty and freedom in the service of the nation has applied for a speech before today's agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-1	Mr President, Dear House, At the end of the week, we celebrated loyalty day in Sopron. On 14 December 1921 Sopron and the surrounding eight settlements decided in a referendum that, despite the Trianon peace dictatorship, they wished to belong to Hungary. The possibility of a referendum was created by the blood sacrifice of the heroes of Ágfalva, the saviors of Sopron, the insurgents known as the Randyos Guarda, and the success of the negotiations is largely due to the diplomatic genius of Count Miklós Bánffy, Minister of Foreign Affairs. The majority was the decision of the faithful citizens: Hungarians, Germans and Croatians. The National Assembly donated the title Civitas Fidelissima to Sopron for his unwavering attachment to the Hungarian country. In addition to our great national celebrations, Sopron's greatest celebration is the Day of Loyalty. On this day we present the most prestigious medals of the most loyal city, and we are proud to say that our honors are one of the most loyal of the nation. Their loyalty serves the community. Their loyalty is based on patriotism, national love. As Miklós Melocco, this year's citizens of Sopron, said in an interview: "Nothing else is important except whether he serves the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As a creator, Miklós Melocco is connected to Sopron by his sculpture composition, The Breakthrough, set up at the site of a pan-European picnic and border break in 1989. Sculpture ensemble is a stone - carved monument to freedom, freedom from bondage, and change of regime. In the 25th anniversary year of the fall of Eastern European communist regimes a quarter of a century ago, we must see that, beyond the agreement and will of major politics, a change of regime could not have been achieved without the citizens who are patriotic and committed to the nation. On the other hand, that 25 years ago, as in 1956 and 1921, Hungarians could carry out the XX. The most outstanding events in the history of the century. And the power of this moral command is patriotism, national love, and nothing else is important but whether it serves the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, In Sopron's greatest celebration, loyalty and freedom come together. Not only because, after four decades of communist dictatorship, 1989 had to come to celebrate the loyalty of Sopron, but also because, in the year of the regime change, Sopron, standing on a firm moral basis, demonstrated his desire for freedom to do so. He opened a hole in the iron curtain, opened his borders, and knocked the first brick out of the Berlin Wall. Sopron, the most loyal city in 1989, became a city of freedom in the year of the regime change. He served moral loyalty when he stood up for the nation in 1921 and served freedom with moral integrity and courage when he stood up for Europeanism in 1989. The statue of Miklós Melocco contains a brick of the Berlin Wall as an altar. Let all freedom-loving Hungarians and Europeans have their pilgrimage places! Dear House, The holiday is a nation-loving, patriotic measure, so the holiday is directed to the missionary people in every community. So Dr. László Szilágyi, the patron of the arts of the mecenary soul, who serves the city tirelessly not only in culture but also in keeping alive the events of the 89 border break, and is therefore our Pro Urbe winner. Because without cultural wealth, there is no successful, strong city in the economy, and neither is there a country. Dear House, The communist power sought to eliminate the nation loyalty of 1921 with the same intent as our loyalty flag, the memory of the Randyos Guard, Miklós Bánffy, as it did 1956, as it did all the values to which it was true:, serve the nation. The change of regime a quarter of a century ago recreated the opportunity to assert the most noble values and ideals to strengthen our self-esteem and our nation-consciousness. These values and ideas [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There is only one quality criterion:, Nothing else is important, only whether it serves the nation. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-15-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-15-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As a Member of the Parliament of the city of Sopron, I think it is right and commendable that this manifestation of patriotism is remembered here from time to time in Parliament, and it can increase the pride of all of us that, in the referendum held there between 14 and 16 December 1921, the majority of the people there chose to belong to Hungary, while respecting some of the people's will by the then winning powers. 72.8 percent of the Sopronians decided to join Hungary in 1920, according to the data of a census, 48 percent of the Sopronians called themselves Germans and Germans, and nevertheless many of the Germans decided to belong to Hungary, so that Sopron and the villages in the area joined Hungary. A hundred years ago, the first world war broke out, a kind of last event or referendum in Hungary, a referendum in Sopron. A hundred years ago, on June 28, 1914, the Sarajevo assassination took place, and a month later, on July 28, he declared the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy war to Serbia, from which the entire sister war in Europe began, and the result was, among other things, the referendum in Sopron. For Hungary, this prolonged brother war, 661 thousand Hungarian soldiers died a heroic death in the First World War, twice as many as the number of deaths of World War II. Many might not even think that, compared to the murder of World War II by industrialized technology, Hungarian blood sacrifices were twice the size in World War I. But in the same way, it is a great pain for Hungary that 743 thousand of our countrymen were wounded in the war at that time, and 734 thousand were captured. [[10.10]] This was a huge loss of blood for the country even in terms of the population conditions of the then Monarchy in Hungary, as these soldiers, their children and grandchildren are also missing here in Hungary, in the Carpathian Basin. At the end of a war, this referendum happened - as the Member referred to - to which Hungary had no interest in entering, and did not want to enter, but at that time Hungary's sovereignty was incomplete, because not only in these two chambers, the Chamber of the Lower House and the Chamber of the Upper House, Hungary's fate was decided, but also in a third Chamber, in the Delegation Hall, where the joint war, the common foreign affairs and the related common finances were discussed by the delegates of the Monarchy and the delegates of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state. Hungary drifted into this first world war because it lost part of its total sovereignty. It was not you who could decide whether to enter the war or not, and even though the Hungarian Prime Minister was opposed to participating in the First World War until the very last moment, but he was alone in the Imperial Council with this position, the others voted him down, and so Hungary got into the First World War, not to mention the tragic end of Prime Minister Tisza, which resulted in his fate; his statue stands here in Kossuth Square, north of Parliament. Well, this is a lesson for us to learn that if a country does not make its decisions in a sovereign way, then even a historic decision that it opposes and does not match its interests will eventually result in a much greater blow for him than it may mean for other countries participating in the war. And it also means that, obviously, freedom of citizens in Hungary also depends on the sovereignty of the nation. CHAPTER XX When Hungary was able to become sovereign as a state, its citizens had a greater degree of individual freedom. When the sovereignty of the nation was restricted in Hungary and the authorities could not give their own opinions, the freedom of the citizens in Hungary was eventually restricted; these two were very close to the 20th century. In the century. But if we return to the referendum in Sopron, we find it difficult to find a better example of patriotism, loyalty, courage and absolute attachment to freedom. In the history of the beginning of the century. Here, we clearly, clearly and at the same time show all the fundamental values that we may thus have in place in the 21st century. At the beginning of the 20th century, the XX. Many may not be proud to speak with the afterlife of his dictatorships, only surveyed, sometimes even exposed to the subject of sarcasm, but yet the Hungarians succeeded heroically, embracing the principle of popular sovereignty and being accepted by others. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Keeping this city, the city of Sopron and the surrounding settlements as part of Hungary, about which the presentation of the villages of loyalty (The President bells thee). It's on the Parliament's table, and I trust we can accept it this week. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why do they allow Hungarian health care to fall apart? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you've heard the disturbing news that six doctors, including the head of the head of the department, have resigned at the emergency care department of the Markhot Ferenc Training Hospital and Clinic in Eger. According to the Director-General, this does not endanger the care at all, but it is difficult to believe in common sense that this is true, since six doctors' departures cannot be replaced immediately in a hospital where there is a medical shortage anyway. The concern is only further strengthened by the professional opinion that although the legal requirements continue to be met by the department, professional care cannot be ensured without a physician experienced in emergency medicine. Of course, quitting doctors is just the tip of the iceberg. Since then, it has been revealed that patients have long complained about conditions in the hospital. Doctors may not quit all Hungarian hospitals in groups, but it may become clear to everyone that Hungarian health care is still in crisis, looking at almost any hospital. Health care workers are already heavily overwhelmed, and the increasing shortage of numbers is making the situation worse. Hospitals are constantly deteriorating, most of them are not ideal for work or healing. Fortunately for us, vocation and victimism are still able to fill the gaps, but this cannot be the only basis for the future. The Eger case also shows that there are more and more cracks in the system wall, and until the government does nothing, similar cases will only become more frequent. The lack of a doctor is only an important but not only part of the health crisis. The common thing about these problems is that the government refuses to acknowledge them. For example, when we asked about the technical and financial background of rescue workers, in response to our written question, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wrote that the current amount of rescue vehicles guarantees safe provision. I would be willing to believe that everyday experience once again would not be the exact opposite, and that we would not hear the opposite from previous or current rescue workers. Unfortunately, the same is true of the tragic outcome, the ambulance service was only able to send a car to a lady in need of help in the interior of Budapest with more than an hour's delay. Unfortunately, she didn't survive the stroke due to lack of care. These cases are also sad because they would be avoided if there were no shortage of ambulances and qualified rescue workers. So there is something wrong with the safety of the rescue if the aforementioned case and the like can happen. During their last four-year government, a total of 301 ambulances were reported, but they did not mention that 342 had grown old during that time, so they reached 13 years of age - and ambulances reaching 13 years of age had to be stopped - which means that the number of ambulances that were not sufficient in 2010 had certainly fallen by 41 pieces by now, not counting the accident here, so they were seriously injured by ambulances that could not perform the service for other reasons. Meanwhile, the Parliamentary Office and the Parliamentary Guard have just received 15 new cars, since they have reached the age of nine. Perhaps it would have been more urgent to guarantee the actual safety of the rescue. But not only ambulances are missing, it is said that more people have left the rescue service in the past than the new workers are needed to fully deploy the new rescue management system. At present, it is not possible to say an area of rescue where there is no need to involve additional resources, but the government is not taking the necessary steps. If everything were really okay in health care, as the government says, there would be no avoidable tragedies, and there would be no danger of complete hospital wards, and the solution should not be exhausted from restructuring, relocation of doctors, paramedics and additional burden. Health care needs extra resources, and the government can't put this off for long. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.20]]
u2014-12-15-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, healthcare needs extra resources, and these additional resources will be included in the next year's budget in the bill that this House is voting on. If you support this, you will have this additional resource for health care, because it is very much needed. As far as the specific case is concerned, honourable Member, allow me to inform you of a few facts in this regard. It is truly unacceptable that that ambulance went out for over an hour, and this has led to tragedy. That is why our ministry has ordered an immediate investigation into how this could have happened. As a result of this investigation, one main person, whose negligence or non-service activities may be responsible for the fact that this error may have occurred, has been terminated from his civil servant status, and another person working there's legal status has been suspended until the investigation is complete, because they have apparently committed the organisational errors that led to this tragedy. You know that after that, some restructuring took place, precisely to ensure that rescue care was fully provided. Why would I miss or miss the number you gave me, the number of ambulances? You have quoted very well, honourable Member, that 301 completely new ambulances have been put into service. But the big problem is that there have been two years, the last two years of socialist government, when no ambulance has been put into service - not one year or the next year - and we have had to face these four years with six years of ambulance duty in four years. I think that we have done our job, because there are enough ambulances in Hungary to provide all the patients who need help. Obviously, we have developed the ambulance management system, and we are constantly introducing the new type of management system, and we are installing new devices for ambulances to make it even safer. If you have carefully read the answers that you have received, you know that the diagnosis that you now have in the ambulance does not need to tell the doctor or nurse in the ambulance at the hospital, but that they are automatically transmitted electronically to the hospital to receive the data needed to provide the patient in the hospital without distortion and early. And I could tell you a lot more steps. For example, traffic monitoring is continuous in the system there to make the ambulance journey more optimal. So we've done a lot of innovations, technical improvements. In addition, we bought more than 300 new ambulances and were able to provide care, despite the fact that, as I said, the socialists did not buy a single ambulance for two years, while the average number of ambulances in Hungary is between 70 and 120 per year that need to be put out of service. Which is the area of hospitals: you know very well, honourable Member, that many hospitals are struggling with debts. There are tens of billions of dollars in hospital debt that these institutions have accumulated. Next year's budget will total HUF 60 billion for debt settlement by various budgetary bodies. This HUF 60 billion is exactly what we can count the debts of hospitals. Thus, in the next year's budget, this chapter is also open to other public administrations to cover the fact that the various hospitals that undertake to take measures to prevent debt from being regenerating can offset their suppliers and other debts from these sources. I also think it is important to mention that, at the moment, there is a hospital development worth HUF 400 billion at three hundred sites, so there is a very large number of investments that are trying to improve the environment in which patients are being treated, as you said, by superhuman work. Over the past four years, 95 thousand health workers have received an average 23 percent increase in their benefits. We are sure that the workers there deserve more than that, but I think that this 23 percent increase in four years is something that we can definitely say as a result. And it is particularly important that next year's budget will create an additional HUF 10 billion of resources specifically for GPs, which will help doctors who are also involved in prevention most often meet people. But I could mention to you the law on the protection of non-smokers from the point of view of prevention, the introduction of a potato tax, the free vaccination of cervical cancer and many other measures to improve public health. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Let's talk about reality. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-15-9	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Throughout history, it has been proven that no large system has failed if it has not failed from the inside. This was the case before 1989, and the fact is that this is what the current total state looks like in Hungary today. The system you've created over the last five years is decomposing, and this decay is no longer a crack, as it has appeared in the last few months, but it can be said as an event of the past few weeks: the system is breaking down from the inside. It is decomposing, as the people inside the total state of Orbán are also criticising government policy, governance. It decomposes because government is isolated from reality, from everything the masses, the people, want today. You do not hear or want to hear what people think today about everything you did in Hungary after October 12, 2014 and what you think about the year 2015 is coming. The Prime Minister wishes to continue very intensive communication in this situation. We would like to signal that we need intensive governance. Finish your media campaign, deal with the government. Open your ears, hear what the voters have to say to you and act accordingly. It is decomposing because it is completely isolated in foreign policy. We are very far from the West in which we have been members since May 2004 so that, along the lines of our shared values, governance in Hungary exercises European values, all that we think about the rule of law, freedom and security. There is therefore no point in talking about the budget in this sense. It's a budget of poverty, it's principleless, and social sensitivity is completely out of your mind. Therefore, I do not really want to base it on this. Rather, I would like to suggest another value to your attention, and this is the Christian values, because the budget simply cannot be voted in favour, because after 4 million people living below the minimum living limit, you will put hundreds of thousands more in an impossible and hopeless position in 2015. How long do you want to do this to Hungary? For me, honourable Members, social sensitivity and Christianity are one and the same. I am saying this to you because I know very well that in recent days many of you have expressed disapproval over all the policies aimed at restricting freedom - see the introduction of a drug test - and, on the other hand, municipal mayors, you elected metropolitan representatives and district-fidesz mayors protested against the policy of rejecting further racquets in relation to the M0 ring. I know very well that today, when you have to vote for the budget, you will remember how many millions of people still expect you to return to their everyday lives in 2015 with hope, security and chance. I know very well that you will think about it when, with the pressure of the yes button, you will vote in favour of the budget that you know about - today you have to see with protests, Budapest's halfway block, protests, protests - only and you alone think that you are doing the right thing. Today, the people expect you not to vote for this budget. Don't vote for it because, at some point, the social crisis can become social tension, and it's not just your responsibility anymore, it's all ours. We therefore wish to say on time: consider and do not vote for this budget. Give employees, employers, a chance to establish a new agreement that will bring predictable 2015 to everyone in Hungary! If not, the consequences of this can be incomprehensible in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[10.30]]
u2014-12-15-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-15-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I study the weekend news, here's what I can tell you. On the weekend, the press reported that the MSZP had a crisis meeting. Let me quote Mr. Group Leader, who said: "The MSZP must change. I couldn't agree more. Any party unable to understand real processes in a country must change. József Tóbias said: "In his present state, the party will certainly not be able to understand the change. I agree with you, Mr. Group Leader. If you're basing yourself on the facts that you've just mentioned here, then you're really misinterpreting the situation. [[Zoltán Pride: And 5 million people. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We see that Fidesz has not understood anything.]] The MSZP must therefore also change. I agree with you, Mr. President, Mr. Group Leader. We've made many mistakes. Mr. Fraction Manager, I feel... [[Constant interruptions from the MSZP faction. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, please give me the opportunity to respond to Mr Group Leader. Thank you very much. So, József Tobias said: "We have made many mistakes. I must follow in my own name those people who have been hurt by not representing the values of the left when we tried to mask the lie into truth. I couldn't agree more. You should follow people not only for past mistakes, but also for their current mistakes, when they completely misunderstand what is happening in the country and try to sell facts based on hypothetical information and data. I would like to reply to the rapporteur, Mr Group leader, that Hungary remains a stable and secure member of several international organisations. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Hungary is a member of the European Union and we are involved in the processes and events that take place on the part of the European Union. Hungary is also a member of NATO; we have been a pillar member of NATO since 1999, and we are fulfilling our obligations in this circle. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as the budget is concerned, Mr Group Leader, I think that you are studying this document, because it seems that the debate framework over the last 30 hours has not been enough to understand and accept our information in the debate. This budget comes from the potential of the economy, and today our options are wider than when you were ruling. You have failed in this country by 2008. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] There was no market player who would have given Hungary a loan - even if she was shouting, Congresswoman. There was no market player who would have given us credit, which is why you had to turn to the IMF, the IMF, the World Bank and the European Union at that time. That's not the case today, Congressman. Today, in the last three months, in September, October and November, the Hungarian budget has had a sufficity. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You've been governing for six years.]] I'll translate it for you: it was a surplus. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] There's more revenue in the budget than we had. This has not been the case in the last 25 years. The economy is stable, our debt is declining, the debt you have accumulated with your loans due to bankruptcy in the country; the general government deficit is below 3 percent. I think this is a good basis for the measures we have launched in the 2015 budget. What are these measures? We're expanding the community service program. You are still saying, as you have said in the last 20 years, that people must be given aid. We're not trying to give people aid, we're trying to give them a job. If the economy is not yet in a position to work on a market basis, public work is needed. This is the case today. To this end, the following year we will spend 270 billion forints on including as wide a circle as possible in this community service. We will continue with the wage measures. The wages of teachers will continue to increase by 10 percent in 2015, and in July 2015 the salaries of professional staff, armed and law enforcement workers will increase by 30 percent. [[Zoltán Haughty and Dr. Gergely Bárándy keep interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] We'll extend it. .......................................................................................................................................... Your Highness, you should have yelled when...
u2014-12-15-12	Excuse me, Minister, for a second. I would ask the members of the MSZP faction to listen as disciplinedly as the governing parties did Mr. Tobias József Group leader. Please take this into account. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The intervention is a parliamentary genre.]]
u2014-12-15-13	Thank you, Mr. President. These MEPs should have yelled at us when they told us that we lied in the morning, at night and at night. [[Intercoms from the pro-government factions: That's right! That's right. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't understand why they didn't yell. Looks like they've got their voices now. So, ladies and gentlemen, in July 2015, the salary of law enforcement workers will increase by 30 percent, and the housing support programme will also be launched, in which we will allow social policy benefits not only for the three or two children, but also for the single children. This budget can therefore be voted by our MSZP colleagues with a calm voice. I urge them to press yes when we have to vote on this budget today. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-14	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, János Volner, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why are we here? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the long-term conditions for Fidesz to cement the exercise of power have been established, and in Hungary this can last. The only way to defeat Fidesz is to be aware of the nature of this power and present an indictment against it. From the very first moment, Fidesz has sought to strengthen its own political power by the violent acquisition of economic power, and has seized political power in order to gain this economic power. At the time, some of the schoolmates gathered together to gain political power first, and later, by gaining this political power, violently, to harm Hungary, to create its own economic hinterland. What has developed in Hungary over the past 25 years is nothing more than a Robbery Capitalist model, which this government course has dressed in national glaze. After all, it is not the discount of Hungarian companies that are currently taking place in Hungary with the title "National Policy" but the position of the Fidesz companies. It is worth mentioning in particular some of the main elements of this policy. Forints 3000 billion of private pension fund assets are nationalised by force, spent by the state, forced by 3 million people's private pension fund savings, lied to people that there will be individual account management, money will not be lost, the government will protect the pension. Now we know the money's gone. They introduce the monitoring fee for the food chains, and they do not simply favour Hungarian businesses, but they push out all the competitors of the nearby CBA from the market, by means of tax policy they destroy competition so that the company close to Fidesz can obtain orders. In public procurement, Fidesz's career is constantly being pursued by close-up companies, not least due to the fact that in Hungary there is twice as much a mile of motorway as in a neighbouring country. It is enough to think about the current stage of the M4 motorway: 60 percent higher construction costs per kilometer than the average cost per kilometer of German motorways. At the time when 65,000 hectares are awarded in the public land lease tender, what happens? Fidesz has careers, people who don't live in the settlement, don't farm locally. These cases are all over the press. We can prove it. When Fidesz is speaking against gambling, he says things that can be agreed on - but what is he really trying to do? Now, for example, so that Andy Vajna, a friend of the government, can only operate an online card room and online casino in Hungary, because all the casino concessions have been terminated outside Gábor Sima and Andy Vajna. Practically by law, they guarantee that only through them will these gambling be possible in the future. Fidesz buddies redistribute the right to distribute tobacco. At present, with this budget law that is now being adopted, they are changing the rules of tobacco trade. And they are not simply taking advantage of foreign companies, but rather of Fidesz's businesses instead of Hungarian businesses. Economic life is very strongly contrasted by your robbery policy. [[10.40]] There will be non-competitive companies in Hungary; billionaires, multi-billionaires who can make excellent deals with the state by exploiting their own relationship capital. This is not a small part of why competitive companies and competitive wages are not created in Hungary, because this process is ruining the Hungarian economy. Now, let's see the wave of dissatisfaction of all the people against you. It is not a coincidence, it is the work of 33.5 percent of the Hungarian population living in poverty in Hungary, even as shown by the European Union, compared to Hungarian incomes, not compared to the European Union. The fake idea of this robbery capitalism is that you don't have to think, and then the state solves these things for us. Indeed, I can encourage all Hungarian citizens to think together and do so in order to replace this Robbery Capitalist state arrangement with a real policy of national interest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Mihály Varga wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-15-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, It was obvious in 2010 that if we continue economic policy in the same way as it was done until 2010, there would be no result, at most the result of what had already happened once, that the country went bankrupt in 2008. Then we would have dealt with foreign exchange creditors in the same way as we did between 2004 and 2008, then the number of foreign currency loans would have increased in the country, and then we would not have touched areas where economic interests were violated. Let's just say it out loud, Congressman, that's what this is about. The government also intervened in areas where economic interests were damaged by former actors, and these players were mainly foreign or multinational companies. If you stand by them and wish to speak for them, there is no obstacle to this, it is your right to do so, but I think that here in the Hungarian Parliament Hungarian economic policy interests must be represented, and the Hungarian Government has sworn to represent these interests at the will of the electorate. Perhaps you would be right to suggest that after the past four years, this has not come to fruition. But it's different, Congressman. The growth of our economy in the EU is quite outstanding and outstanding. 2014 II. The highest growth was achieved in the quarter of 2014; In the quarter of the year, we were on the podium, together with Romania and Poland, leading the growth table of the 28 Member States of the European Union. If we look at the ordinary results of the economy, we see that there is no inflation, we have not been talking about consumer price increases for months, Congressman, but about price reductions. The latest monthly inflation rate was minus 0.7 percent, which showed that average prices in Hungary did not increase, but, on the contrary, decreased by 0.7 percent, which was last seen in Hungary in 1963. As I said earlier, public finances are good, positive. There were three elections this year in Hungary, and despite all political risks, the deficit of Hungarian public finances did not go away, it did not run away as it did in recent election years, it remained below 3 percent. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In the last three months - September, October and November - the balance sheet of public finances has been surplus, and more money has been made. Yes, Congressman, you are right, public procurement is the area where such interests are most damaged. We consider it a top priority, and I myself, as Minister of National Economy, to help those Hungarian businesses, whether they are small or medium-sized enterprises or large enterprises, which start in Hungary on public procurement, as much as possible. This was not the case in recent years until 2010, Hungary had a disadvantage when a Hungarian company started public procurement, because it either had no reference or parameters were established in such a way that it could not kick the ball. We are far from being able to account for an ideal situation here, but in recent years we have achieved significant results in terms of the fact that several Hungarian companies have now been able to achieve results in public procurement. He's objecting to the scale of land distribution. Honourable Congressman, By 2010, it is good that 3-4 thousand farmers were distributed to Hungary every year. This government has done so by the fact that over 80,000 farmers have managed to distribute state land in recent years. If you say it was all fidesz, I'm very happy for you, but I'm afraid that's not quite so. The scale of land distribution was completely political and party neutral. Of course, there are always interests that are damaged in this area. You have spoken for those, perhaps, foreign owners who have been here through some kind of pocket contract in Hungary in the lease of state land. I am very sorry that you are doing this; you should be glad that we have been able to distribute state land to several Hungarian farmers, and we have been able to distribute large estates and large areas as smaller parcels and smaller areas for them. As for next year, I must reiterate that the performance of the economy is not for itself, it is for people to feel the positive benefits of this. And in 2015 we will achieve this goal by transforming the social support system, extending the public work programme, removing foreign exchange loans from the system, i.e. forinting, wage increases, wage measures, and further conversion of housing support systems. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-18	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I would like to ask my fellow Members to please come in and take their seats quietly. The base noise in the room is so high, you can't really hear the responder. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, Head of Group, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-15-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a budget to be adopted by the Honourable Parliament, obviously not for the first time, nor for a situation that has not occurred in recent cycles several times. [[L. Simon László: That's for sure!]] I thought it might be worth recalling those moments, honourable Members, when, in 2006, the socialist government of that time prepared a budget after an otherwise won election. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's a good sign to look after us!]] exactly what it looked like; or when, in 2010, before leaving the government, what budget was submitted to this House. Because it may be worth recalling these in order to compare them with the words that have been said here in this House today. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Go outside and explain to the protesters.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In 2006, the then Gyurcsány Cabinet presented the following budget to the Honourable Parliament: from one side, I think we all remember that before the elections VAT was reduced by 5 percent, and immediately after the elections it was raised back by 5 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't explain in here, out on the street!]] Let us not mention this today; but let us mention that, compared to this, in 2006, when the budget was submitted at the end of the year, they decided, for example, on a 4-percent health contribution that everyone had to pay. In Hungarian, by 4 percent, the personal income tax burden of the people, paid by everyone, was even increased separately. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How many new taxes have you introduced?]] Also, registration taxes have been increased; if we are talking about the car society once, then all motorists have been hit, regardless of which part of the country they live in; and, of course, they have also increased the excise duty rates significantly - just to mention their decision in 2006 in the light of today's criticism. Let us also mention that the support of municipalities was reduced by HUF 100 billion in 2006, the amount of drug subsidies was reduced by HUF 32 billion, and that social sensitivity was recalled, and regular child protection support was abolished, my fellow Members. [[István Tukacs: Tell us a little about the American case.]] These were all decisions of the budget presented by the Socialist Government in 2006 [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Talk about budget 1826. Agnes Kunhalmi: What was it in 1825?]] of course, what the parliamentary majority at that time accepted, showing social sensitivity. Then let us recall the budget submitted in 2010, ladies and gentlemen. In 2010, a budget was submitted to the House which also affected everyone in the country, after all a monthly pension [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And they took a month's wages from everyone. They took a month's pension and a month's wages from everyone. They completely stopped the housing subsidies which were still running at the time, and also led to gas and district heat subsidies in 2010, my fellow Members, which meant that if we hadn't intervened, gas and district heating prices would have increased most harshly for everyone. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: In 1867 we agreed.]] Next, let us also mention that in 2010, public transport support was reduced by HUF 40 billion, especially the BKV, my fellow Members. [[10.50]] Just to remind you again how credible your criticisms today are: when they were on the government, they did this. And finally, to make the cake foam: in 2010, another HUF 70 billion was taken from the municipalities, making the municipal sphere increasingly impossible. These were your 2006 and 2010 budget decisions. These decisions have not shown any social sensitivity, just the opposite, fellow Members. I think these are the budgets [[Agnes Kunhalmi: In 2050...]] what you have adopted in the past has increased poverty in Hungary, and this is the poverty that the government must now fight against, and let us look at the measures that, among other things, have taken. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We'll talk about the last minute...]] In recent years, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved that, as a result of the family tax system, there is more than HUF 240 billion left over people, which remains this year. This year is also clearly more money [[The president's ringing the bell.]] stays with Hungarian families, because as a result of bank accountability, HUF 1000 billion will be transferred from banks to Hungarian families, and almost everyone who has paid foreign currency loans will be reduced by 25-30 percent in the following year. Let's just say there's gonna be a lot more people getting free textbooks anyway. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What quality textbooks?]] There are wage increases in this budget, which the House is discussing - not wage cuts, as in your budgets at the time - because the wages of law enforcement workers are increasing and, by the way, the salaries of teachers are rising again as of September. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: If it rises!]] Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, in an economic environment where we achieved Hungary's beating position in the European Union in 2014 in terms of economic growth; inflation is close to almost zero percent and unemployment has fallen to 7 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the difference between your governance and the functioning of the civilian government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-20	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Mihály Varga wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-15-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, I also think that it is not only important [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Not only is it important what measures are planned for 2015 in the budget, but it is also important what measures will be retained by 2015. In this respect, it is certainly good news for the government that we want to maintain the extension of the family tax allowance, so we want to continue in the future to ensure that, depending on the number of children, families and individuals who earn income can benefit from the greatest possible tax relief for the costs of raising children and raising children. We also want to preserve the results of the job protection action so far, as employers and employers have been able to help more than 900 thousand people and workers by using a contribution allowance to keep them employed. A number of social groups have been involved in this measure: young people under 25 years of age, older people over 55 years of age, unemployed people in long-term unemployment zones who have been out of work for many years. The employment of these can and can be helped in the context of the job protection action, which we would definitely like to preserve. Turning to the field of education, the priority is to continue the renewal of public education in 2015. We will spend more than ever, and more children will have free textbooks and school equipment, and from September 2015 the kindergarten will be mandatory for early development from the age of three, and we will continue to raise the teacher's wages next year. I think that this is certainly good news for those working in education, for those affected there. In terms of health care, the government will increase the support of general health care by HUF 10 billion in 2015. We think that this is an important task, and it is also an important task to settle the debt of hospitals; to this end, a budget of HUF 60 billion will be available in 2015. Pensions continue to preserve their value. This was not always the case until 2010, as not only the value of pensions fell during the governance of the MSZP, but there was a year when the 13th month pension was taken away from pensioners. The government, on the other hand, guarantees this value, the value remains, and, on the other hand, it is able to provide annual support of up to HUF 150,000 per household. I would also like to add that next year the use of EU funds will take place in a new framework, and we want to spend 60% of these funds on economic development. In the 2015 budget, plus HUF 13 billion will be translated into social aid compared to this year, I think it will be a significant additional resource in the coming year. It was decided to separate public and municipal benefits: from March of next year, the aid guaranteed by the State will be paid by the district offices, which will be covered by 100% of the budget; and the municipalities will be able to decide more precisely, more individually, in what way and within what framework they intend to provide social assistance to their residents. I must also add that economic development is also an important aspect of the next year's budget. The government provides HUF 3 billion in support to Hungarian manufacturing companies operating in Hungary in 2015. This support will be available to companies with significant growth prospects and mainly to the domestic market. The budget will base this regional development resource by 2015. The aim is therefore not only to distribute the additional resources at our disposal, the additional resources from the growth of the economy, on the basis of the criteria for improving the quality of life, but also to ensure that the growth of the economy in 2015 does not slow down, suffer any damage, and to involve new and new resources in the measures that I have just mentioned. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this budget is obviously not the best budget in the worlds, but I think you are aware of our options. This is a responsible budget, it will continue to maintain financial discipline by 2015, reduce the public debt and the general government deficit, and, in addition, it will also keep the measures that we have achieved together with Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people in recent years, and which will serve the purpose of making Hungary a little better for everyone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-22	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before today's agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély, to present the list of speakers after the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2014-12-15-23	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ander Balázs, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ikotity, István, LMP; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Anita Heringes, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2014-12-15-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that MEP Tamás László, Fidesz, has received a motion to suspend his immunity in Budapest IV. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. From the District Court on a private charge. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have the opportunity to receive the certificates of property today and tomorrow at the Information desk of the Security Service. Dear Parliament, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated an extraordinary meeting on 16 December, i.e. tomorrow. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals which the Government initiated to negotiate in the extraordinary session of the Parliament. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear Parliament, Today, the Government announced the addition of the series of subjects of the extraordinary meeting to the T/2373 amendment of individual laws in connection with the regulation of public funds. The Commission also initiated negotiations on this subject in exceptional proceedings. Dear Parliament, The agenda for today's meeting is coming up. We will decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, the speech by the keynote speaker on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. [[11.00]] Dear Parliament, We now decide to derogate from house rules. The House Committee proposes to the Parliament that the risks and impacts of the Transatlantic Investment and Trade Partnership on sustainability and sovereignty V/2258. When holding a political debate on this issue, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that the political debate is held within 40 days of the date of the submission of the motion. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule by 171 votes in favour, 5 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The House Committee has proposed that the Parliament be responsible for the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. T/2337. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of bill No 34 of the House Rules of the House Rules, it shall depart from the House Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 1 does not have to apply; it should not be possible to submit a proposal and a committee report amending the bill; the general debate should take place on Monday 15 December 2014 with a total of 10 minutes to open and close, and then the political groups will be able to express their views in 5-5 minutes and then the independent representatives will be able to speak in a total of 3 minutes; the final vote will take place on Tuesday 16 December 2014. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our decision also requires a vote in favour of four fifths of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the derogation from the Rules by 171 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The date of today's general debate on the proposal will be decided later, as proposed by Fidesz. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/2373 amendment of individual laws in connection with the regulation of public funds. Bill No. 1. The Government has also initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within 3 hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Shame!]] ; the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place tomorrow. The exact date of this will be decided in the framework of the decision to adopt tomorrow's agenda. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/2373 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 120 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. Dear Parliament, The amendments can be submitted for 14 hours 6 minutes today. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. T/2337. The general debate on this item should take place as the last item on the agenda of today's sitting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated the T/2329 on the amendment of certain laws on administrative matters. The Parliament shall discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure. The Fidesz fraction initiated an urgent hearing on T/2141. Parliament shall decide before deciding on the number of proposals. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with discussions on the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a two-minute technical break until we get back to work. [[It's a short break. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. My fellow Members, please take your seats. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission is T/2141. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Budgets as a committee to conclude a detailed debate was received in figures T/2141/59, 61 and 63 and its report in figures T/2141/55-58, 60, 62 and 64. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/2141/68. and the summary report is T/2141/69. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. First, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman, in an eight-minute time frame. [[11.10]]
u2014-12-15-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/2141 on 11 December. The draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 and its amendments. The summarised amendment contains almost all of the amendments made by the Committee on Budgets and Economic Affairs on the one hand. At the same time, the Legislative Committee did not support the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary to mitigate the conflict of interest rules of representatives of the national self-government. Furthermore, the Legislative Committee did not support opposition proposals aimed at abolishing the single audit system, maintaining the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. In its own proposals, the Legislative Committee clarified the definition of public tasks of the Public Finance Act and laid down the necessary powers to regulate the use of resources from the European Structural and Investment Funds during the 2014-2020 programming period. On the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, the rules on the right to family allowances of partners who have a non-blood common child are also amended. The additional amendment aims to ensure that land grabbing for recreational purposes does not exceed 300 hectares of land grabbing, thus excluding the possibility of abuse. The purpose of the amending proposal of the Legislative Committee is also to provide sufficient time to adapt the public service licensing system for waste management, the date of the introduction of the new single certification permit was set by the amendment proposal on 1 July 2015. The purpose of the further amendment proposal is to clarify the role of the public waste management intermediary in the 2011 Environmental Product Fee Act and in the 2012 Waste Act, thus supplementing it by ensuring the achievement of certain collection and recovery objectives set out in the implementing regulation of the Waste Act. The Environmental Product Fee Act will also be supplemented by an enabling provision to ensure that detailed rules on tendering and the provision of services, contracting, resolution and termination by public procurement can be laid down in a regulation in order to achieve the collection and recovery objectives set out in the Waste Act. By supplementing the amendment of the law, the foundations of a financing and support system can be created that will not only achieve the necessary recovery rates, but also achieve Hungary's long-term waste management objectives. The National Assembly is the 2007 CVI on State Property. Law 36 It provides for the free transfer of ownership of certain state-owned properties under Paragraph 1 of Article 2 (1) of the Act on National Property and the 2011 Act on National Property. The purpose of the proposal submitted by the Committee is to ensure that certain state-owned properties are transferred free of charge in accordance with previous claims by church legal persons and civil society organisations. It is a special pleasure for me, as a representative of Kőbánya, that there is also a part of the amendment that gives 250 families in Kőbánya the opportunity to buy the apartments of the MÁV settlement. These families have been waiting for this since 1990, and a 20-25-year-old problem can be solved with this proposal. The situation is at present that MÁV has already handed these apartments over to the Hungarian National Asset Manager, the Hungarian National Asset Manager would hand them over free of charge to the municipality, but if the Municipality of Kőbánya took over, it would not be able to alienate them to residents for 20 years. Here, this amendment of the law exempts from the prohibition on disposal. I would also like to highlight the two amendments adopted by the committee on my proposal. The amendment shifts the scope of the provisions imposing a failure to notify the introduction of the EKAER system until 1 February 2015, i.e. the State tax and customs authorities cannot sanction the failure to notify in January 2015. Furthermore, the proposal was adopted to exempt from the notification requirement vehicles carrying excise goods which are still subject to strict national and EU transport regulations. At the committee meeting, there were two areas on which there was a greater debate with the opposition. As regards private pension funds, we have had the debate that has been fought many times, the result has been similar, everyone has said their own position. At the same time, I would like to say again that the proposal before us is all about the fact that members who wish to remain in the pension fund can take care of their later pensions responsibly and be sure that they will receive their pensions. Statistical data show that in many cases the amount of membership fees is much lower than the operating costs of private pension funds, and this is clearly contrary to the interests of members in the private pension fund. The other dispute arose in connection with the family allowance scheme. I would like to point out here that sociological studies clearly support the fact that the part of children who attend kindergarten and school regularly has a much greater chance of starting in any area of life. The mandatory kindergarten is in the interest of the child. The biggest debate - once again - took place around the creation of segregational and disadvantaged children. The point of the debate was that, through the family allowance, we wanted to sanction the absence of children who have been unauthorized in kindergarten for more than 20 days in the submitted law. The left-wing opposition painted a dramatic picture of the consequences of this decision, and we believe that it is in the best interests of all children, that it is in the best interests of all disadvantaged children to go to kindergarten. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you go to kindergarten, you have a better chance of starting out in life, and we believe that this decision is in the best interests of disadvantaged children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-26	Thank you, Congressman. I rang the bell early, so you have one minute if you want to finish it. [[Márius Révész: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. I give the floor for the presentation of the minority opinion to Mr István Tukacs, in a 7-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to outline exactly what happened at the Legislative Committee meeting with the amendments, I would like to indicate what has already been formulated many times at the TAB meeting. It has been stated that we have to discuss, evaluate and express our relationship with him at an inappropriate time, the evening before the meeting of the TAB. The size of the confusion at the Legislative Committee's meeting is no better described than the fact that, on Friday following the meeting of the Legislative Committee on Thursday, the majority of governments were forced to correct the items already voted in principle, precisely because they submitted them in an unfollowable and wrong way and then drafted the amendments they had adopted. In the case of such an important draft law, this does not serve, but mainly to praise the majority of the governments who submitted the amendments and those who voted with the majority of the government. The other thing I would like to note in this regard is that, in recent times, the Legislative Committee has discussed 17 proposals, four of which were proposed by the MSZP, and the four proposals have tried to change the underlying laws quite widely, especially because at several points we have seen on the basis of the underlying laws that either they are not realistic or they do not provide sufficient information to Members, they prevent the work of their representatives in Hungarian, or they contain covert steps in various matters. Of course, the majority of the governments rejected these proposals and the minority opinions formulated on the basis of the amendments made by the MSZP, and did not accept any amendments. [[11.20]] It was particularly interesting for the agendas discussed in another case at the Legislative Committee's meeting when the government's present Secretary of State did not even accept a change of title, which, in our view, would otherwise have been in line with the legal requirements, but even in this way, he behaved in a small and impossible way, since it would not have been necessary to accept this proposal. Turning to content matters, the majority of minority opinions were formulated in the following areas. The amendments and the basic proposal include a proposal to abolish the fund to which private pension funds have been transferred. In this connection, however, opposition representatives, the minority, were of the opinion that the work of this fund, the circumstances of its activities and the results of its work, had no information in Parliament, I add, and the majority of government representatives did not. At the time when the relevant report on the operation of this fund was to be presented in the last cycle, this proposal was already cancelled in the Committee on Budgets and the report itself was removed from the agenda, so we did not have any real information on the operation of the fund and, of course, on where 3 000 billion private pension assets had gone, what use it had, and in particular whether it had actually reduced public debt. In particular, cases which, for example, reported procedural anomalies in the operation of the fund, such as the fact that the management of certain resources of the fund has been entrusted to someone or to an organisation, while the sale of the fund's funds and assets has started. Therefore, we were right to ask why the Hungarian Parliament did not discuss how this fund worked for 3 thousand billion people, what was the result of it, under what circumstances it did its work, and so on. It was particularly interesting to find out whether the government debt had actually fallen in relation to the operation of the fund. Of course, there was a lively disagreement between us in this regard, because the representatives remaining in the minority claimed that the Hungarian government debt did not decrease factually and itemically. I would like to mention, as a matter of fact, what was hidden and hidden between the motions, namely that, in the regulation on the so-called carbon pennies in the price of electricity, the majority of governments are in favour of an increase, and in Hungarian it supports higher energy prices in relation to this increase. For this reason, my honourable members of the Government, who emphasise and advocate the reduction of the rent, should not have left this behind if they were so committed to reducing the rent. Nevertheless, this motion was simply voted in favour, while we tabled an amendment in this respect. At the same time, it was even contested that this would have a price drive, while it is quite clear that if an item of the account increases, the total amount of the invoice will also increase. There has been a debate as to whether the rules in the case of compulsory kindergartening are realistic. Our minority speaker claimed that it was unnecessary to introduce rules for compulsory kindergartening, the case of which was otherwise supported, additional rules concerning the loss of support by the parent after three days in connection with compulsory kindergartening. We believe that this is unviable, because in many cases there is a lack of knowledge and consent from the parent without a medical certificate. However, many of the amendments made by the MSZP were still made, since one of our packages contained a proposal of roughly ten points. In this, we have mentioned all the anomalies, for example, concerning the withdrawal of housing support for homeless people, the change of the various financial rules, and so on. Mr President, Dear House, We regret that we have remained in a minority and that none of our amendments have won a majority. I see that we still need to discuss this in the debate. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform you that you have a total time frame of ten minutes for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-15-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I will address contentious questions at the end of the debate, if I may, but there have been allegations which, in my opinion, do not cover reality, and I would therefore respond very briefly to them. The first point was that the Legislative Committee did its work without being able to close content issues on Thursday. I must say in fact that all the content issues have been completed and only amendments for legal purposes, which have been made to assist in the application of the legislation, have been adopted by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on Friday. The second point is that the government, the majority of the government and the secretary of state representing the government have not even adopted a text amendment. Let's get this straight. The Hungarian Socialist Party had a proposal to rewrite the title of the Act establishing the 2015 budget, but would rewrite it by changing the name to amend certain laws establishing the budget, even though the proposed bill contained not only an amendment to the law, but also a deletion of the law. So it would have been against legal rules if the Hungarian Socialist Party's proposal had been accepted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to turn to the third point here: the Member mentioned the abolition of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. Yes, here, by abolishing a law, by abolishing a fund, the Honourable Parliament will close a period if the proposal is accepted. The abolition of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund is necessary because the funds have been used. This reduced public debt, and the information on what the money went to, how the public debt was reduced, is available in public documents. The claim that the use of the source has not been made public is clearly rejected. Allow me finally to make one comment. The bill before us states that the final report of the fund, i.e. the final report, which reviews the functioning of the fund as a whole, is drawn up by the State Debt Management Centre within 60 days of the end of the fund and published on its website immediately after the adoption by Parliament. In other words, not only so far has the government reported on the operation of the fund, the use of resources, but also after the end of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, a final comprehensive report will be prepared and submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, you have a 7 minute time frame to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The Committees' resolutions and the minority opinions are now being presented within a total of 6 minutes' time frame. The designated Committee on Budgets does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. The associated Welfare Committee did not wish to present a rapporteur. The minority opinion of the People's Welfare Committee is presented by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is regrettable that the government will not use these few minutes to defend their own law, their own budget, but I would like to speak a little longer than one subject. From the age of three, they make it compulsory to go to kindergarten. Today, poverty figures are coming to light, and I think that even though there have been speeches before the agenda that have succeeded in halting poverty or that the Hungarian economy is on the right track, I must say that 42.4 percent of children under the age of seven live in poverty in Hungary today. [[11.30]] Last week, I had a very big problem with one of my immediate questions, which I asked the Prime Minister; then several pro-government representatives said that today poverty among children is decreasing and poverty in general is decreasing in Hungary. It must be pointed out here that you understand, honourable Members - and it would be good for you to finally understand this. - [[Rushing in the pro-government benches:]] - Within the walls of the kindergarten, poverty doesn't stop! They will say that from the age of 3, children go to kindergarten, receive three meals, and from now on they will eliminate child hunger. That's not true! And believe me, these kids, these three-year-olds, when they get into kindergarten, they get brunch, lunch and lunch - they don't get breakfast, they don't get dinner, and they don't go to kindergarten on weekends. There's kids in three years, they go to daycare. There are kids over six who go to school. And, honourable Members, note that there are children over the age of 14, who, on the other hand, go to high school. [[Intruder from the pro-government benches: Do not be disqualified. Laszlo Szászfalvi intervenes.]] Almost 80 amendments were tabled in this respect. One of our most important proposals was to extend the summer social catering to children over the age of 14. And I'd like to draw your attention to one thing about kindergarten. About 20-25 000 seats are missing in Hungary today in order to introduce compulsory preschooling from September to the age of 3. I ask you very much not to communicate cynically that from the moment the children are in kindergarten, poverty will be stopped in the country. No. And I'd like to draw your attention to another communication bluff. Last week - all week - articles were published to explore the possibility of extending free meals in 2016. Shame on you. We're not talking about the 2016 budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's about the 2015 budget! Thank you.
u2014-12-15-32	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Tiba, rapporteur for the Committee on Enterprise Development, within a three-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the government's economic policy has been focused on increasing employment, improving the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses, ensuring balanced economic growth and reducing public debt and keeping budget deficits below 3 percent of GDP. The results show that the efforts to restore fiscal and financial balance, reduce public debt and adapt the labour market to demand and supply, and to restart economic growth have already brought about the expected positive turn. As a continuation of the work started four years ago, 2015 will be a year of accountability of banks and steps towards full employment. The Committee on Enterprise Development held a detailed debate on this bill: it supported it by 6 votes in favour and 3 against. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, who will present the minority opinion in the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the law establishing the budget, I would like to talk about matters within the framework of the commission, especially the winding up of the National Labour Office. Technically, what has worked for many years, decades and for the benefit of the people, is what you are now destroying within the framework of the law establishing this budget. They destroy it because they tear it apart, distil it, make it untraceable the system of services that have previously been operated correctly, in a uniform structure and framework, even at your time, although a little more bitter, through tasks delegated to the district offices and many others. Meanwhile, they are cynically talking about creating a consumer-friendly service. You know, if you're a consumer-friendly person, it's basically about doing things for the good of the people. For them and for them. That's not what they're doing. That is not what they do; with this dissipation, they practically crush it into pieces, break apart everything that gave people the opportunity to take the form of individual treatments. While doing so, financial resources that can be used in the world of work are being shifted only in one direction towards public employment. There's nothing wrong with public employment. What's wrong is that it doesn't create value, and there's a lot of other things, and there's a problem with paying less money in public employment than, say, five years ago. You know it: 60 200 forints was the money that people received under the title of public employment in 2010, and now it's just - à la nature - about 10 thousand forints less, but 20 thousand for purchasing power. So you, this two-thirds government - I mean, two-thirds of Parliament's walls, because, by the way, you can't support a fraction of society anymore, and you still can't stand it - you took one third of the people's money. This is the biggest shame that can be done: from the poorest, from the weakest, they take away resources, while people, just like five years ago - employers and workers - make contributions of 1.5 percent, with the aim of... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Intercoms, three minutes!]]
u2014-12-15-36	We have a three-minute window.
u2014-12-15-37	... to benefit people. Well, these and similar excuses are the ones for which this bill cannot be supported. Thank you.
u2014-12-15-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. To speak, Mr Tamás László, Member of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 20 November, the Government presented a bill on the basis of the 2015 budget, which was discussed in order by the designated committees and the committees related to the debate. The main task of the underlying bill is to harmonise legislation in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the budget and tax laws next year. A total of 46 amendments were submitted to the bill, some of which were incorporated into the amendments closing the detailed debate. As I said in my speech on 2 December, this is a legislative package amending more than a hundred legislation, of which I would like to highlight in particular the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets. These are, on the one hand, work hygiene and occupational health tasks transferred from the Minister for Employment Policy to the Minister for Health. The medium-term budgetary planning process will be moved to the end of the year instead of the spring period, which will be implemented in parallel with and in line with the next year's planning process. For Hungarian film producers involved in international co-production, the conditions for eligibility for direct support will be simplified. From 1 January, stone-carvering, artificial stone-making, tombstone-making activities, as well as the distribution and presentation of products derived therefrom, will be restricted. Next year, the maintenance rights of the General Business College will be transferred to the IBS International Business College. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, I would like to ask you to vote today in favour of the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.40]]
u2014-12-15-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP Group.
u2014-12-15-41	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The title of the bill is no longer accurate. Although it talks about the foundation of the budget, it is not about this work being done by the House with the bill. We have already been faced with the government and politician's efforts to rewrite the bill that has already been tabled, even through the last-minute amendments tabled. One of the gems is that the bill also seeks to change the tax laws already adopted, and I said that together with this bill, we cannot do this work, the foundation of the budget, because, as we begin the debate on the summarised amendment, while Minister Mihály Varga presented another proposal in which, in a separate bill, he wishes to amend the tax laws that were adopted recently again. What basis is this, this House, for next year's budget, if it is constantly, week after week, and even now from hour to hour, again and again to amend the adopted tax laws, for example, which could really lay the foundations for next year's budget, at least from the revenue side, to our greatest regret, in the form of tax increases? ! We can also see that the government is coming up with new ideas outside the bill. If it turns out that there is not enough tax revenue, then as the latest idea, the government will also pay taxes on the opening stages of the motorways and the bypass rings in the form of tolls, and, of course, with this proposal that has not been agreed with anyone, triggers a huge public uproar, otherwise rightly. Dear House, At the same time, the bill aims to abolish a number of social support and also to address the remaining assets of private pension funds. We would like to point out that the Socialist Group and the Socialist Members and Committee Presidents have tried to obtain information during the negotiations on such important legislative proposals. Just today, we were trying to get a picture in the Committee on Budgets of the 3000 billion private pension assets that the government confiscated from the people at the time, how it was used, how it served to reduce public debt, while the public debt increased sharply, and how very serious money was used for budgetary purposes without reducing public debt. It has already been said in the debate that the Parliament has not been able to discuss this. The Committee on Budgets could not discuss it today either, because the majority of the Committee on Budgets voted against this item. It was particularly funny, by the way, that the other items on the agenda were also voted off by the pro-government majority. They may have feared that there might be some substantive questions. We also tried to listen effectively to representatives of private pension funds in the Committee on Budgets about their views on legislation. It has become clear that, in the current form of legislation, if this plan is implemented, it will also confiscate the remaining private pension fund assets, with a toothache of about HUF 200 billion for the budget owners, nothing is expensive to do so. We also mentioned the professional proposal that it would otherwise be useful to take out the provisions on private pension funds from the current sections, in order to discuss the legislative proposals that really underpin the substantive functioning of these funds within the walls of this House, but it was also not possible to do so. If this had been possible, it would also have been possible to implement the professional proposal, which would mean that these people, who have remained cashier members in their own decision, really enjoy the fruits of their savings, should not have had to be put into the public budget, in particular: the pension system, because this professional proposal made it clear that it would be worth considering that these existing private assets, to which their rightful owners insist, should be transferred to voluntary pension funds. This would achieve the original goal and eliminate the current competitive disadvantage, as while the voluntary pension funds are supported by a number of tax incentives as an institution, while the remaining private pension assets would not be supported by the government, on the contrary, it provides for impossible rules for the cash registers which are unfulfilled, so this HUF 200 billion will certainly be lost. Ladies and gentlemen. As I said, the so-called foundational, budget-based bill will essentially prepare a unfounded budget for next year, with a hasty economic policy, with measures that violate people's sense of justice, with measures that come up with new tax ideas and measures that take away their private pension assets from the remaining cashier members, from over 60 thousand people. These provisions are unacceptable and the MSZP will not support them. Thank you very much, Mr President and Honourable House, for your patience.
u2014-12-15-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have the first independent Member to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi in a two-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-15-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, There are road closures across the country, there are demonstrations in Hungary weekly, if necessary every two days. This is the reception of your budget in Hungary. [[Happy Stephen intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] My time is short, I cannot speak fully, and I have spoken many times about the budget. I would just like to talk about the five biggest piggies contained in the budget and the law that underpins it. First of all, I believe that Fidesz is sorry for everything but for the state. Next year, you'll be spending more on maintaining your state than anyone since the change of regime. Moving to the castle, stadium constructions, 102 Deputy State Secretary. You know very well that this money would be a much better place for schoolchildren, teachers or four million poor people, out of whom half a million of them have slipped into poverty under the government of Viktor Orbán. Secondly, you are a truly unscrupulous, taxing government. More than 40 new taxes have been introduced since 2010 and 15 new taxes are or will be raised in 2015. In this country, we will soon have to pay separate taxes for breathing. Meanwhile, people are protesting on the street in front of Parliament that we cannot pay as much as you steal. How many more skins do you want to pull off people? That's exactly what the third problem is. Their budget punishes the poor. This year you have started to eliminate support services for the poorest, kindergarten support, unemployment benefit and a series of other supporting funds. You're taking money from 600,000 people next year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we'll see how much work they can give us.
u2014-12-15-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: Maybe they still don't understand why people are...]] Congresswoman, we're over the time frame. Thank you very much for your speech. Dear Parliament, I remind you that the bill is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament, so I now give the floor to the Bulgarian national representative Varga Simeon, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and translate it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-45	Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself. As an invited advocate, I would like to express our committee's position and proposals for amendments. [[11.50]] The T/2141. The detailed discussion of the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 was carried out by our committee. We have tabled an amendment proposal with justifications in five points. 1. The committee is the bill 339. Paragraph 2 points 1 and 3 are proposed to be deleted. We believe that the government's mandate to establish a regulation is necessary and justified on the basis of practical considerations. For us, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The law is the law. Rules for the use of appropriations managed by a chapter in the Ministerial Regulation cannot be adopted. 2. The Committee is the bill, the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 12 The Commission proposes to amend the budgetary support provided for in point 14 of Article 14. Please refer to a point (n) which is intended to support the operation of national authorities and their sectoral tasks. In our view, both national and local authorities are part of the municipal sub-scheme of public finances. In the provision, there is an unjustified distinction between the fact that support for the general operation of local authorities and their sectoral tasks does not constitute budgetary support, but it does constitute such support for national authorities. 3. The Committee is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Law 106. The Commission proposes to amend the rule of conflict of interest set out in paragraph 9 of Section 1. As a result of the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities tabled by the National Assembly's National Committee in the summer, the leaders of the national minority institutions may also be members of the board in their elected bodies. Clear interpretation of the law can be achieved by modifying the conflict of interest existing in the law on the rights of nationalities. The law is not consistent with regard to the permissible rule in Article 106. § 9 because it does not say that a member of the Board may be an elected official, therefore it could not be on the basis of a narrowing interpretation of the law. 4. The bill is 339. Article 156 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities. § (1) (a) and (b) are not proposed to be repealed. For us, it is not justified that the rule laid down by law, which has been contained in the law on the rights of nationalities since 2005, should be repealed. If the aim is to avoid parallel regulation, it is necessary to remove the delegation clause from the Public Finance Act. 5. The Committee is paragraph 89 of the bill, the 2011 CXC on national public education. A new chapter of the amendment of Law 347/A. The Commission proposes to supplement it with paragraph 1. The proposal would allow the head of the public education institution operating in the maintenance of the nationality municipality to become the deputy chairman of the minority self-government. Dear Parliament, On future legislative changes affecting nationalities, the Hungarian minority committee considers it necessary to consult and use the legal powers of opinion with the national minority self-governments. We hope that the honourable Members will decide in the light of the amendments made by the Committee on Nationality in Hungary. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches to be made by its representatives in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-15-47	Mr President, Dear House, We have a package of proposals that amend more than a hundred laws, the basis of a salad, which was then further modified by the government, although it seems that the vagueness that might dwell in the heads of the government has not yet been resolved, since we have not been able to find answers to questions that call for a completely clear answer, yet have not been discussed. It is not clear, for example, what assets the government expects from the sale of additional 169 billion. Thus, there are still darkly floating privatisation or other expectations in this package that we have not received any meaningful answers to, and it is not clear what could have increased the revenue plans from the so-called e-toll in the order of 10 billion. And you can also see that the only amendment package that has come before us and which is now having a quasi-detailed debate is pushing the balance in one direction by some HUF 45 billion. But we can also see that we are talking about a total tax increase of 130 billion depending on the government's action plan. You can see that 27 changes are the basis for all of this, and 5 of these 27 changes are favourable for Hungarian families. So there are five changes that the government is planning to make here that leave money in the pockets of Hungarian families or make their lives easier in some way. For example, the first couple's discount, which is absolutely to be supported by me. So let's not try to make it look like every step is wrong, and we acknowledge that something is good. The problem is that 22 of the 27 changes are very serious and very harmful to Hungarian families. Once again, he is taking money from the affected Hungarian citizens in the order of 100 billion dollars. And we also need to see that while bank card payments become partially tax-free, they give a minimum discount to the government, the excise duty increase and the future transfer of the food chain inspection fee, tens of billions of new faces for the population, the citizens, which is completely unjustified, unreasonable and not a step forward, as where will this result in further Hungarian jobs or economic recovery. It can be seen that, as in every case, when, for example, the right of establishment is being spent for money in respect of the settlement government bond, there was only the aspect and the fact that the revenue side, at any cost, at any cost, at any cost, at any cost, at any cost, at any cost, at any cost, but at all costs, and that the government plan should be available to produce what is expected of you in line with the criteria set by different EU and world organisations. But this does not make the Hungarian economy any better, it does not create any more jobs, and this does not enable our decommissioned regions to come to life, as we must not forget that four of the 20 poorest regions of the Union are still in Hungary, neither in the budget nor in the package on which it is based, a series of measures that would change the fact that millions of Hungarian compatriots live their daily lives in the most broken regions of the European Union. And we can also see that for the reasons of the tax changes, which are also included in the amendments to the fiscal base package, that the government wants to collect even more in terms of VAT revenue, who is the most involved. The EU record 27 percent VAT consequences are mostly on poor people, families with a difficult fate, because they have not been able to achieve a measurable reduction in basic foods, nor have they managed to reduce the VAT on child rearing products to 5 percent, which would have been a national strategy goal. So this brutal VAT rate and the even more serious collection volume will be the most burdensome for families in the difficult queue. And we also need to see that, while this government took over governance with 34 tax types in 2010, the number of tax types imposed by 2014 was over 40, and now we are approaching 50 - they are in their 45ths - and they are also raising the existing ones. Thus, the volume of taxation increases to an amazing, brazen and insufferable extent, in a national economy where the government does not give a helping hand to families either through private bankruptcy, family bankruptcy, reduced VAT on child-rearing articles, or reduced VAT on basic foods, no one gives a helping hand to citizens in difficult queues. That is why we say that what lies before us is insufferable, untenable, and not worthy of a government that seeks the success of Hungarian families in words. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group.
u2014-12-15-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The idea government of Fidesz is truly becoming untraceable, which is a worthy imprint of the salad law, a plastic formation, which is about how they can fold together measures to try to patch up a budget that has, let's say, bloody throats, since the basic imbalances that this country has been carrying for four years, and which we owe you, have not changed a bit over the past few years. When the first version of this bill was put down, they would have made a very strong start, simply by drawing a pen would have abolished the rules of transparency and conflict of interest which are minimally necessary in order not to regroup with public funds, to be transferred to different places, and not to be used for the right purposes. [[12.00]] The May Other has also submitted an amendment to this issue, and we asked that the level of transparency should not be changed, either by EU or other international sources or by domestic sources. Although we have been voted down, I am glad to see that what we have written has been understood by you, because part of this bill has been removed from these infamous initiatives. Back in the day, when I said my keynote speakers about this, I put it to you to codify the free robbery in this bill. Some of this got out, but what's left of it is still interesting. The rules on conflicts of interest continue to be relaxed by this bill. We see that, although family members could not be squandered as easily as you would have liked, social organisations working with the parties will be able to apply for public money and receive public money. Now, the question is, obviously, who are you trying to piss off here, who do you want the money in your pockets for? I should like to point out, Mr Secretary, that, on the one hand, I am waiting for an explanation of why this is included in the proposal, and, on the other hand, the May Other Politics will be very attentive, because such legal bases are typically the hotbeds of how citizens' money can be spilled, spilled and not used for purpose. We're talking about a salad law, so I'm gonna jump on another big piggyback. In Hungary, I think we should agree that if we do not raise education to a higher level and teachers do not receive the wages due to them, then the days of this country are, so to speak, numbered in many respects. You are now committing the outrageous injustice of making a teacher's wage increase that is not dependent on an increase in the minimum wage, the two are separated from each other. This is unacceptable, because we believe that a teacher's wage increase should be part of its ability to rise year by year in line with the minimum wage. In practice, you want to preserve a situation in which every year you make it dependent on the current state of the budget on how much money teachers receive. The opposition protested, teachers protested, high school directors protested. These words mean nothing to you, going on this totally unacceptable path. We must also protest at all levels and on the fronts against the transformation of the social system. Several people have told me, and I also highlight that we live in four million poor countries. You have not discussed these measures with society, with experts, no impact assessments. A few years ago, the Secretary of State who has now put this whole concept on his flag proposed a radically different direction for the country with the national social policy concept, the Nsk. Now he's in line, and we see that people living in poverty are preparing for criminal measures. In particular, I would like to point out that you will abolish the kindergarten support in a situation where preschooling is mandatory. Don't you feel the contradiction? A lot of kids don't get to kindergarten because they don't have shoes, they don't have the right clothes to wear. We said that this aid should be increased by one and a half times. This one looked like it was 20,000 forints once, then 10 thousand forints every six months, and you're going to cancel it. What do you think? And here I would like to point out that the population round table has also expressed its concern, and I quote:. The planned abolition of kindergarten support would, however, make it more difficult than ever to put the families concerned, children, most of whom live in severe poverty, because it is mandatory in kindergarten, usually in a few months, to provide the poorest families with replacement shoes and change clothing. Look, that's what the people's round table experts say. Are you ignoring this, too? I have in front of me an open letter from the city to everyone. You got it, just like I got it. In this it is clearly stated that the aid that you will abolish, or that you will be told, will be resolved by the municipality if you know what these will cause in society. I understand you're ignoring the opposition, I'm used to it. But also the civilians, this is totally unacceptable! [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2014-12-15-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Mr Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We see changes in the funding of certain social benefits in the laws on which the budget is based. We can't agree with that. I would like to list some options as to what the consequences might be. I'm trying to go from the mildest to the most severe, although it's hard to rank. First of all, I would say that families in actual need will be deprived of benefits because their local government will not be able to ensure this, and therefore the rule system will be designed in such a way that a large number of people will fall out of this system. This is a very bad road. What else could happen? There will be differences between settlements and settlements. Whether or not you are able to provide certain services, whether or not you will be able to provide certain conditions. It is possible, perhaps even certain, that a kind of social security migration will take place. So, about the settlements where they cannot provide this and then head towards the settlements where these social benefits are indeed maintained. It doesn't start a very positive process either. What's the third option? The third option is that, in addition to the fact that the government is constantly plaguing the people and the tax-paying citizens, the municipalities will also be forced to impose on the people living in the cities, the settlements. Well, that's not a good way to go either. On the one hand, I do not think that too much skin can be pulled off people, and the other option is that it will also increase social tension. For those who may even be stained with a skin may be right to be angry with those who, unfortunately, are angry with the wrong people who actually have to throw this face at them. And unfortunately, in many cases, they will not consider the fact that the person who imposed the tribute on them is the government. So it's unacceptable. The third option is that, since these things will fall entirely within the competence of the municipality, whether it gives at all or not, how it determines the assets or the conditionalities, it may be that, in particular, municipal representatives and municipal decision-makers may feel threatened by their own physical integrity in certain settlements. Where, let's say, the ethnic composition is quite different from that of downtown Budapest. It may be justified to fear that these representatives of the local government are threatened, even physically abused if the decision is wrong. Is that really the direction we want to go? If I list the consequences, it may be even the mildest that many people, in fact in need, will lose their rightful care in the spirit of social solidarity. Please, think about this one more time. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I'm going to ask the people in the expert box to put the cameras away. [[Dr. András Schiffer, Zoltán Magyar: Why?]] That's because the press representatives have their own boxhole, and they have the representatives of the MTI, where the recordings are taken from. I'd like you to study the house rules. Dear Parliament, He's volunteering to speak... [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is a public meeting.]] I'm not gonna argue about this. Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor for three minutes and 15 seconds. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-53	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to address only one element of the proposal: this is the final abolition and liquidation of private pension funds. Look, I see that the seed of self-care has also been wiped out of Hungarian society. You can see that you have a problem with this 200 billion forints for the government, and you're doing everything you can to get your hands on it. The trick is familiar. The trick is familiar: they bring in legislation, the content of which no one will be able to comply with, and then later they say, because they have not fulfilled the conditions, so they themselves, if you like, will be accounted for. Dear fellow Members, When the motion was debated, I asked Mr Tállai the Secretary of State a few questions. I asked, among other things, how could it be that the fund set up on 22 December 2010 started operating with the regulation on detailed rules of its operation being published only later, on 31 May 2011 in the Hungarian Gazette. Secretary of State hasn't answered. I also asked how it was possible that the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt., designated as the fund manager, could occur. without the decision of the implementing regulation and the governing body of the fund, it decided to use a deposit guarantee service with a market participant of HUF 511.9 billion. Secretary of State didn't answer. My third question was how the market sale of assets started in June 2011 with the Fund's sales strategy only adopted by the Governing Board in October 2011. Mr. Secretary of State didn't answer that either. Thank you very much, I have no further questions. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[12.10]]
u2014-12-15-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, to the extent possible. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just giving you the headlines. The financial resources narrowing down to active employment policy, the civil servant's salary base, the previous four years and the current proposal, remain unchanged, HUF 38 650, a multitude of tax increases, poverty deepens and widens, the social crisis is intensifying, food price rises are called to life, the possibility of imposing local taxes, the cafethere, virtually non-wage benefits are cornered, they give people less opportunities, they eliminate early retirement opportunities. This is your social policy, while social policy is being spent about 70 billion forints, 70 000 million forints less. In the meantime, the report on the pension fund is being made public, but it is not given the opportunity to discuss it between Parliament's walls and to see where the ten billion have disappeared - where, how, what sales of assets have been shamefully carried out from people's savings? It's your budget, it's your budget law. Shame and shame! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. It's an interjection in the same place. Nándor Gúr: As you say, my fellow Member, shame and shame.]]
u2014-12-15-56	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the representatives of the factions if they still wish to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give you the floor in a seven-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In relation to the final vote on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015, allow me to give some thought. As stated in the national expozee, the proposal for a final vote is aimed at creating all the legislative changes needed to implement Hungary's central budgetary management in 2015. A number of substantive and technical changes are being made to ensure the predictability of the legal system, the protection of families and the recovery of the economy, in line with the budgetary law that is now being adopted. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned 27 tax changes, of which he considered 22 to be detrimental to families. One specific element was mentioned by the Member, the food chain inspection fee. I would like to emphasise that this will be largely paid for by the large food chains, in order to ensure that safe, healthy food is placed on the table of families and residents. As regards the other tax revenues, thank God, we see growth because we expect substantial economic growth, which goes well beyond the EU average, and an increase in employment, from which there is a surplus of budgetary revenue. So let us make clear what is the tax revenue that comes from a tax change and what comes from the expansion of the economy. As far as the toll system is concerned, first of all, I must state that there has been consultation with those involved. There are elements in which there is absolute agreement with the organisations concerned, such as the introduction of county stickers. But if we look at the electronic toll payment system more widely, then we see that the government intends to enforce the principle of paying the user in the future, a system that we see in many countries of Europe. It makes me wonder if, in most of these European countries, there is a well-functioning system - I note, a system that governments before 2010 wanted to introduce - only this did not actually happen - and where the principle of paying the user applies, why is it a problem that the government wants to use this tool? Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Perhaps most often in the debate on the bill, there was an amendment to the law on private pensions and private pension funds. In this context, I think it is important to point out once again that the government places a particular emphasis on financial security in old age. [[Nándor Gúr: By taking the money?]] It therefore considers it its duty to achieve the objectives which are in the interest of all of us by eliminating and encouraging members to make regular payments by means of fictitious private pension funds. The proposal serves the interests of private pension fund members [[Nándor Gúr: You don't believe it!]] , protects the assets arising from paid membership fees and covering future pension contributions. We have made it clear, in accordance with our promise, with an amendment, that the 70 per cent membership fee payment condition, which is a condition for the future functioning of private pension funds, is non-retrospective, that payments of the preceding six months can be examined after 30 September 2015. Private pension funds will be given 3 plus 6 months to agree with the members on the payment of the membership fee. There's no confiscating. There's no money going down. I want to remind everyone of that. [[Nándor Gúr: To private pension accounts! To individual bills. Remind me of that.]] that the members themselves decided to withdraw from the state system. [[Dr. István Józsa: Blackmail!]] Congressman, 97 percent decided in 2011 [[Nándor Gúr: Don't talk such nonsense...]] I'm sure he'll step back. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That leaves 100,000 members, and that melted to 60,000 today. [[Nándor Gúr: You don't mean that. The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as the downsizing is concerned, honourable Members, please look at the 2015 budget bill before us, which does not include a penny as public revenue from a private pension fund withdrawal. So the numbers, the public numbers are clear. [[Nándor Gúr: It's a shame that you're willing to do this, and you dare to stand here in Parliament... the president's ringing.]] Several times in the debate it was said that, contrary to the Government's promise, individual pension accounts had not been introduced. However, this is clearly not true. The Directorate-General for Pension Insurance is currently registering how much contributions are paid, so everyone has an individual pension bill. [[Nándor Gúr: Go to the wharf and look around.]] As to the point that Congressman Nándor Gúr referred to: where is the money? I repeat: Public Reports [[Nándor Gúr:...you would have brought him here!]] how the amounts of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund have been used. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, please study the government debt management website [[István Tukacs: We do not want to study it, we want to debate it!]] who is the manager of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, and please study the provision contained in the bill before us; the final report must be prepared within 60 days of the end of the fund. I therefore ask you to make your proposals in this context. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame! You're avoiding Parliament in everything!]] In the proposals for a social amendment, the government was pleased to see that both the governing parties and the opposition parties agreed on the introduction of compulsory kindergartens. The aim of the measure is to give each child the opportunity to overcome the disadvantage with the help of the kindergarten. Given that the number of absences in schools has decreased by 40 percent due to the fact that the family allowance payments have been linked to schooling, this method should also be used in kindergartening. It should also be stressed that the suspension of the family allowance can only take place if the number of unauthorized absences is equal to 20 days and there is sufficient time to prepare for the introduction, given that it lives from 1 January 2016. As regards the social care system, everyone who needs it will benefit from it, the care system will be transformed, but no benefits will be lost. As far as the food for children is concerned, next year's budget proposal contains 10 percent more than this year's. If this is accepted by the Parliament, the amount of children's meals will increase more than double. Civilians: next year's budget amounts to HUF 5.4 billion in support of civilians, which is billions more than this year's item. Public money: I must say that the Legislative Committee has reached agreement on the rules that need to be established. The government follows the principle that it followed after 2010, which applies to the clear, public and transparent management of public funds. That's what's written in the Fundamental Law. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the legislative proposal put to the final vote constitutes a close union with the 2015 central budget bill and serves as a basis for it. The 2015 budget will continue its economic policy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] according to which Hungary broke out after 9 years [[The president's ringing again.]] from the excessive deficit procedure whereby public debt is reduced in a unique manner [[István Tukacs: Is that all you're talking about, Mr. Secretary of State? Let's make it a little fairer.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] from the excessive deficit procedure whereby public debt is reduced in a unique way (István Tukacs: Is that all you're talking about, Mr Secretary of State? Let's make it a little fairer. For three consecutive years, only two other European Union countries were able to do so, and we are in the European lead as a result of our growth data (The President re-rings). , and the results of all this can be felt by the residents [[Nándor Gúr: He doesn't take the president seriously.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] from the excessive deficit procedure whereby public debt is reduced in a unique way (István Tukacs: Is that all you're talking about, Mr Secretary of State? Let's make it a little fairer. For three consecutive years, only two other European Union countries were able to do so, and we are in the European lead as a result of our growth data (The President re-rings). (Nándor Gúr: He doesn't take the President seriously!) (The president rang again.) or even the possibility of employment. I therefore ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.20]]
u2014-12-15-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place today. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the integrated supply of tobacco products and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The submission is made in T/2081. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to close a detailed debate T/2081/4. and T/2081/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2081/7. No T/2081/8. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-12-15-59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 December, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2081 amending certain laws necessary for the integrated supply of tobacco retail trade. Bill No. 1. The basic aim of the existing tobacco law was to reduce the smoking of young people and to protect the health of our children. In addition to the consistent implementation of these objectives, it is necessary to combat harmful market behaviour on the domestic tobacco market. This proposal clarifies the right of the State to determine how retailers acquire their tobacco products in the context of the regulation of retail trade in tobacco products. Purchasing and supply tasks may be carried out in the future either by a company authorised by the State or by the State under a concession contract. At the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee. These proposals have been supported by our committee in favour of 20 affirmative votes and 4 non-voting votes according to the single text. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 20 votes against and 4 votes against. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-15-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented in a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2014-12-15-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, The arguments that Gabriella Selmeczi has just said are very beautiful, but it has nothing to do with the reduction of young people's smoking and similar noble goals in the bill before us and its amendments, since you have begun to divide the tobacco market between fidesz friends, relatives and acquaintances. We are now at the next stage of this, and this is the reform of the tobacco retail market, introducing a public player for the time being, which is what the news is about, who will hold this whole tobacco supply and retail supply in his hands. We can talk about the amendments here, and we can now say what is in the summary amendment tabled by the TAB. There are such very important elements that, for example, how many cans of cigarettes need to be placed outwards in the tobacco store, and how many do not need to be, so there are such very important amendments. But that's not the point! The point is that you will want to fully monopolise a player in the tobacco trade market who will be responsible for supply. It is also written in the law that this may be the state, but it can also be put out in a concession. In all likelihood, you will publish this in a concession within a very short period of time. The creation of a player in the tobacco product market, who, standing above everyone, will influence the flow of goods, the order of payments and the range of products placed on the market, is, in my opinion, simply amazing. We're going backwards, towards the Rákosi system, we've seen this kind of supply thing in the world, and there's a reference to it, and I'm sure you can give us some examples. In my opinion, in North Korea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, or in Cuba, there are in all likelihood such monopolistic suppliers. Moreover, in the reasoning of the bill, you often refer to competition on the market, the market created by supply and demand, and to competition neutrality, and the argument system shows that you want to eliminate retail exposure to wholesalers and guarantee the smooth and safe supply of supply. These arguments are simply ridiculous. What you are about to do will result in the exact opposite. We have said this several times, even in the general debate, that this would not only clarify market conditions... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Clarify!]] So you'll make it clear that your friend and friend will be in a monopolistic position. On the other hand, there will be a lot of harmful effects. One of these negative effects will be that, once again, as is constantly the case with the laws by which you are trying to change the trade and supply of tobacco products, jobs will be lost. A very serious number of jobs will be lost. The other will be that smaller importers who marketed a certain product scope will otherwise disappear from the market. They're gonna disappear on the market! What will this result? It will mean that the black trade will grow again. Whether you like it or not, you will. In addition, we have been talking over the past period about a market that is strictly regulated from manufacturers to retailers, from producers and importers to wholesalers, which is directly influenced by the state by legal instruments, and that is even more informally influenced by government parties. In this area, the freedom of competition by those who have otherwise resulted in this situation is, in my opinion, an immeasurable cynicism. And the rest of cynicism is that, in order to protect the market and free competition, the bill seeks to include this central public player in the distribution chain, whose task is actually to limit and distort real competition. Plus, it's gonna be a problem for you guys to get past that. With the usual methods, you will want to provide this operator with a fixed margin, this fixed margin will be determined in the description, and you will say in this law that the manufacturer will have to provide 15 percent, of which the supplier will have to continue to be provided 10-13 percent to retailers. So he can apply a margin of 2-3 percent, guaranteed by you. The other thing that is very important is that you have laid down rules that you used to be very opposed to, quite rightly, when at the same time it was said that large trade chains finance their own operations by paying suppliers only for 60-90 days, then you were outraged at how much exploitation this is, how much exploitation it is, how much exploitation it is for suppliers. Now you will guarantee the same at the moment for the friend who will be in this chain, because while he will only have to pay to manufacturers for 60 days, retailers will have to pay within 15 days. This may result in a minimum of 30, or even a condition that for 70 to 90 days the money you collect from retailers will be used, with all kinds of interest, without any contribution, you can have this money for 60, 90 days. You can use this money, and you will allow it, even with the margin. Therefore, they can write and make any amendments to this law, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary strongly rejects this bill and strongly asks you not to submit any such and similar bill in favour of friends in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] [[12.30]]
u2014-12-15-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mrs Shegmanné Nemes Sára, as rapporteur, whether she wishes to speak now, either during the debate or in connection with the closing. The Secretary of State has indicated that she will express her position at a later stage. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur or a minority rapporteur, so the speeches will now be held by its representatives within the time frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner, Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-15-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Before presenting the summarised amendment proposal, allow me to briefly refer to the essential provisions of the bill. Based on the experience of the past period, some undesirable market phenomena have led to the need to limit the purchasing of tobacco retailers within a regulated framework. The proposal clarifies the right of the State to determine how concession retailers acquire tobacco products in the regulation of retail trade in tobacco products. The legislation states that tobacco products released for free circulation in Hungary for the purpose of retail sale of tobacco products can only be purchased from the tobacco retail supplier. The proposal makes it an obligation for the wholesaler of tobacco products to provide an adequate supply to the supplier at all times, so that there cannot be a case where the supply company would restrict competition by handling the sources of supply inadequately. On the other hand, the tobacco retail supplier is at all times responsible for the regular delivery to retailers of the chapter ordered by retailers. It is important that the tying obligation which the tobacco wholesaler may have previously imposed is removed. In addition to the above, the proposal provides for a precise framework within which tobacco wholesalers can enter into agreements with retailers. A number of guarantee rules therefore ensure that the tobacco retail supplier carries out its activities in a competitively neutral manner, while ensuring that the supply of tobacco to retailers is indeed continuous and appropriate to market needs. Point 1 of the summary proposal amends the legal status of the tobacco retail supplier. According to this, the tobacco retail supplier can be not only a company but also a legal person, which the State has created in the form of a company. The bill therefore clarifies that the form of provision of the activity is not necessarily linked to the form of an economic company, in accordance with the provisions of the EU Directive. Now I would like to move on to the main points of the summary proposal. Point 2 of the summary proposal complements the provisions on the award of the concession contract. According to this, the State itself can exercise its activities through its established company. It may also issue a public concession tender and accept the appropriate offer of a reliable tobacco trader without a separate tender, at the same time in accordance with the provisions of the concession law. Point 3 of the summary sets out a new section in the Law on the Prohibition of Smoking of Juveniles, which requires that, from 1 January 2016, the trader is obliged to place a box above the counterline with a warning page in combination with the picture from each of the tobacco products he markets, and each with the front of the packaging, with the exception of cigars. Point 4 of the summary proposal states that the provisions for the protection of minors - prohibition of entry into the commercial premises and others under the age of 18 - should be properly applied to the public limited liability company and to the person authorised by it. The rest of the summary proposal is a text-focusing and/or legal proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said in my speech as a lead speaker, it is important, in my opinion, that the tramps should not be at the mercy of the tobacco wholesalers. Therefore, and in order to reduce smoking, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment proposal and the Commission report. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Józsa, Member of the MSZP Group, who also announced his intention to speak in writing, is coming to a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Völner concluded the fidesz justification to prevent the Fidesz retailers from being exposed to someone other than the wholesaler. After that, only the Fidesz wholesaler can deliver them, and in order to make it to everyone's happiness, they immediately raised the margin to 13 percent, so that the newly introduced integrated wholesalers, which you have appointed, could earn enough income. So it raises the title of reducing young people's smoking, so that integrated care... - Congressman, look out here, on the other side of the Danube, there is a lot of cars whose workers will be left out of work as a result of your action. So when the Fidesz bill comes to rearrange the market, it's always a little suspicious. So the point of this proposal is that you want to monopolise this as well, and the goal is once again to put friendly companies in position and make billions of forints a year. Not to mention that this regulation is expected to result in an additional increase of approximately HUF 130 per box. So we need to keep smoking down, let the smoker pay more. However, Congressman, even today, about a third of the Hungarian population smokes legally. And the rest may be illegal, because you have generated a price level where there is already a city where the black trade is, unfortunately, 50 percent. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Ancestors of Novak: Szanyi was smoking here.]] So the fact that you now guarantee a 13 percent margin is another 60-70 HUF increase, which may not please everyone. However, the proposal therefore does not help to combat black trade, although according to some research it already reaches a level of 15%, and of which only around HUF 45-50 billion will be lost to the budget by the end of this year, resulting in tax losses. So when you get involved in the functioning of the market, it may not serve the common good. For whose benefit it is seen quite properly - the common good is little. The amendment was tabled by Mr Lajos Szűcs, a Fideszes representative, who changed the bill substantially in the field of concessions. So it is not enough that Mr Horváth's activity in Szekszárd is well-known how the Trafiks were distributed - based on the Fidesz list - now the amendment says that a public tender may be awarded, except when the Minister of Industry refuses to issue a public concession tender if the conclusion of the concession contract can be concluded with a reliable tobacco trader, as explained in the explanatory statement. And it's up to you to decide who's reliable. Well, that doesn't include the slightest sign of seriousness. This person must be at least majority-owned in the company, so that he can extend your trust to the whole operation. Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, this is more than ridiculous. This is tragic, so to get involved in market processes, obviously price-expensive, obviously an impact on the damage to the budget of tens of billions, so, I would like to say that this is rude, and not only we in Parliament say that this is rude, but, I say, look out on the banks of the Danube, where cars are standing along the Buda quay, who also show this opinion that it is rude, and this must end. Thank you. [[12.40]]
u2014-12-15-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group.
u2014-12-15-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We agree that underage people should be given a break from smoking and that Fidesz should be given a break. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Of course, this bill is nothing more than another piece of public market robbery. The point is that once again a specific economic interest group ordered a law: the Habony works, featuring Gabriella Selmeczi, again the old song. Let's talk about the point. There is no health protection purpose for this proposal, at least in recent weeks you have not brought here a piece of impact assessment that would prove that this would have a measurable health policy impact. The Secretary of State for Health was not in the debate, and it is quite telling that a piece of health politician on the part of Fidesz-KDNP did not speak in the debate on the bill. This bill is about continuing to build the feudal chain that they started in the previous cycle. The issue is that the winners of the system of national cynicism will be appointed by means of such laws. The bill before us is a bomb business for someone; it's not for retailers, it's for sure. The tobacco retail supplier, which separates manufacturers and wholesalers from tobacco shops, can not only be state-owned but can also be a concessionary private undertaking. Yeah, don't be at the mercy of the wholesaler, and they're suggesting that you be exposed to Fidesz as a regular fidesz. It is certain that a perfectly unnecessary logistics undertaking will be included among manufacturers, wholesalers and tobacco shops, which, in addition to the interest-based influence of the market and operators, will be subject to a fixed margin for the full levying of profits, i.e. a law rather than a market, regulates the guaranteed income for a concessionary private company which has been well selected in advance and the conditionalities are written into law. And, of course, who is chosen and on what basis, will still have nothing to do with anyone. Of course, you are not interested in the fact that 700-800 jobs are being lost. These chocolates, distributed by our fellow Member Varju, represent the families that you make runaways for destroying jobs in the tobacco industry, destroying tobacco retailers. You don't care; your friends will create a few hundred new jobs, and those who can't fit into these few hundred jobs can go to public employment. The point is that everyone in this country is dependent on Fidesz and Fidesz vassals. Of course, you do not care that this law is detrimental to tobacco retailers. There is no agreed quality of service, the frequency of delivery and the delivery deadline are not set, so the retailer cannot know in advance how many daily supplies to order. All this makes the stockpiling of retailers very difficult to plan, while with them they finance the supplies and profits of the suppliers, so they pay the vassals. So make no mistake. The economic policy of Fidesz is in the interest of many people, most of all in the interest of friends, but the fact that it is not in the interests of the domestic SME sector, the domestic retailers, is certain. Parliament could make a sound decision otherwise if we knew the views of the Court of Auditors and the Competition Authority on this proposal; these two bodies, in principle, are independent in this bill. What is significant after the amendments: while you have spoken in words and even in the government programme that existed in 2010, that you will protect Hungarian SMEs well, it is quite clear that when you talk about the domestic economy, you talk only about the rich few. They are pursuing an economic policy that will continue to dominate the domestic SME sector. You are not looking at the interests of domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, not domestic retailers, but of Fidesz buddies. And the price is not expensive for you if hundreds of jobs are destroyed and hundreds of family businesses close. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] The point is, the few you choose, the friends you choose, will benefit. That's what this bill is about, and that's what all the traffic laws are about. This is for theft, for the state market robbery. Face the facts. Let's face it. You can't spend the rest of your life stunning a country with bullshit. We know that when they talk about health care, they talk about robbery; we know that your tactics are to put their dirty paws on markets for which no one is going to shout openly, because they are unpopular markets, but the profits are being skimmed by your friends, and that's how they can build the national bourgeoisie you have designated. That's what this story is about. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-15-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We must go further on these issues, because indeed, what has been said is all absolutely true. The spirit of the bill and the solutions envisaged are contrary to fair market behaviour and to market economy and to legal certainty. Several times, it has been said here from your mouth that, uh, the opposition is defending the multinationals. Well, it's hard to insist on the Jobbik Hungary Movement that we would be so protective of the interests of the multinationals, but at the moment we object to this because it's not about the multinationals, it's about the legal uncertainty that you create in this country. After all, what confidence should an entrepreneur have, how to build businesses here, if you have the opportunity - and not only that you have the opportunity, but you have already stepped out, not in the first case, and not for the first time - that you will, and as it is, will shut down markets, and you are not interested in what kind of players were present in that market. Because it is no coincidence that when you destroyed the gambling market and 80% of the gambling market was dominated by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises worked in it, it was said to protect it. These are the same words that we are now dealing with, because at that time he had the same great spirit of protecting poor people from gambling addiction, throwing their money away. Now that you're giving concessions to Gábor Sima and Andy Vajna, because they're reliable service providers, we don't need to protect anyone from these things anymore. And what did we meet in that law? We met with a reliable gaming organizer. Now, what are we meeting about? - Reliable tobacco supplier. Who's the one who can be trusted? Someone you'll call trustworthy. But the fact that you're taking down a market by eliminating jobs doesn't interest you at all. By indeed increasing the margin, so that retailers who are also linked to Fidesz would earn even more by 3 percent at the moment will definitely result in the price increase. What will be the result of the price increase? It means that more and more people are turning to the illegal cigarette supply that comes into this country, because the black trade you have recognised is constantly growing. There are more dangers. One of the dangers is that uncontrolled products will be consumed by those who, say, turn to the black trade, and then we should start thinking about protecting people's health and talking about health - but it doesn't matter if more people turn to the black trade, and who knows what kind of products they're gonna poison themselves with even more? Doesn't that matter? It doesn't matter if the black trade is growing, what does that mean? You have acknowledged this, and it is true that we are in the middle field at the moment in the black trade in tobacco products in Europe. I am sure that Hungary will also perform better under such laws, because soon the black trade will increase even more, but they will no longer deal with the fact that if the black trade grows, what will result: a loss of state revenue and a loss of state revenue will not only be worse for smokers, but for all of us. And then you're gonna come here and say, oh, well, here's where you had to give a little discount to one of your buddies, and you're gonna lose a significant source of income right away, but that's okay, and then we're gonna figure out what we're gonna do in the so-called bypassing stages - because it's in his name, bypassing, bypassing cities - and then we're gonna pay tolls for the opening stages, and then we're gonna make up for what we're gonna leave here to lose. Well, that's how it affects society as a whole, and that's how the laws, the decisions that you're constantly making here. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Long live the tax reduction!]] And what's in people's minds? Think about why your popularity may have dropped so much in recent times. Because people have always thought - and this is really offensive to those, and we will discuss it today, by the way, and I hope that they will vote 'yes' to the Members of Parliament, who I believe are in the majority here in Parliament, are in a much greater majority than the minority on whom the shadow of suspicion, the shadow of the suspect of corruption, may fall. [[12.50]] So they suffer the same stigma that every politician is corrupt, every politician steals. I do not agree with that, because, I say again, I think they are in the majority. But at this point, what do people think? Why you have to make such laws. I mean, that's corruption, too. So not only is corruption when someone pays someone to do something for him, it is also corruption when we put friends in the position that later - who knows that - they will repay us. This is also one of the branches of corruption. In view of such laws, people will clearly say that, please, corruption is really booming in Hungary, unfortunately in Hungary at the moment, even though they say in words that they are fighting corruption, they will not be able to fight it. And here comes the rest of it, and the point is I, when they say that the minister can decide not to do this supply, because why should he, say, be 100% state-owned, no, without a tender, he will decide to give it to someone else. Well, that's absurd. I can't imagine why this is good for you. Commissioner Secretary will then say - we have had quite a few debates on this law, in which I know we disagree. But the fact that you say that you need such a law is that retailers are not at the mercy of wholesalers, and this is almost a face toaster. They should not be at the mercy of wholesalers, because so far they have at least had the opportunity to choose between wholesalers, where appropriate, to achieve certain market benefits if they have made more traffic; but now there will be a supplier in a monopoly position that will belong to you, and this supplier can also determine whether or not to destroy certain people, because why not define it. So what I'm saying is that you can bring laws before this House that I don't even know why. By the way, I know why, because in the last year - and it is true - you have always referred to this - you have won the elections that have been announced, and you have been in two-thirds of the previous cycle, and in these five years you have been stuck away from reality at such a level that people, today's Hungarian reality, believe that you can do everything. Believe me, they can't do it; believe me, this one will have its fast in a very, very short time, and this fast is due only to themselves, no one else. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Dr. András Schiffer applauds. A nice round of applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-15-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, An independent congressman László Varju has applied for a speech. I give you the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We can safely say that after the work of the last few years, a new sector is essentially the victim of Mafia governance. Both parts of this sector, employers and workers alike, are at a disadvantage. You will all suffer this disadvantage. Perhaps we should start with those workers who have spoken and acted with them on behalf of their trade unions in recent days in order to preserve their jobs. That's why they sent you gifts for Christmas. [[He's showing me a sign of chocolate.]] Where, be clear, you can see the picture of families who lose their jobs as a result of your decision. And that's why they're sending you a message, and they're asking your children not to vote for this bill, because otherwise your mother, your father, will not have a job as a result of your decision. And it seems that if you don't care, you will also find yourself in a situation where not only people are losing work, but businesses and companies that do any activity in Hungary are in a position of uncertainty about whether or not it is worth doing business, because suddenly the state comes and puts its hands on this market, takes it away and gives it to your friends. That's what we're seeing. That's what we call your Mafia government. This is when you ignore all market developments and give your trusted friend Fidesz this opportunity. This is protested by employers and workers alike. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-12-15-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's not just this one law we're talking about. We've been negotiating three laws not so long in one day, haven't we? It stated in the three laws that a special tax was first imposed on tobacco manufacturers. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Poor people!]] After that, it's possible to eliminate the traffics by mutual agreement - whatever the government thinks it means. By mutual agreement, the parties will do whatever they want, and I would like to continue to confirm that, even in this rule of law, which you are breaking backwards. I'm afraid you'll be able to raisin the good truffles here and hand them over to those closest to you or you think they're more reliable. And the third is the law we're discussing right now, wholesale. In these three laws, there is one common point: it is your beneficiary. Your beneficiary may be the company close to you, which is reliable to you. All three laws have this one eye in common. I would also like to say to the Secretary of State and to my fellow Member Völner that, for what they are saying, I really do believe that neither professional preparation nor courage will lead to this, which requires serious faith, which is what you are saying. One thing to say in a speech is that if there have been many wholesalers, but now there will only be one, it will not cause a monopoly position...! [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] We've listened to this enough. This does not cause a monopolistic situation - it will be so, even if you say this ten times, only that children in sixth grade are quitting, so there is no such thing as saying it more often. We have also heard of it today - I wrote it so as not to forget - do not distort competition by not transporting. Thus, the manufacturer, the trader who paid the State's tax on the stamp 90 days earlier, paid it to the State, then thinks that it distorts the market in some very fraudulent and clever way by not selling its product and selling it. But to talk about serious things. You're about to decide that 700-800 people will lose their jobs again. For 700-800 people, you're putting this under the Christmas tree as a gift. And, of course, they also give gifts to their own, as they increase the mandatory margin by 3 percent. This, of course, is not something that distorts the market, because there are few businesses in Hungary today where the state simply guarantees by law how much profit can be on something. You give it to your own people who don't own it, you take it from them. And as a representative of Pécs, let me say this: since your blessed activity, since 2010, Elcoteq has ceased to exist in Pécs; this year the glove factory, a 120-year-old factory, said that it is too expensive to produce in Hungary; the champagne factory has gone; and you are now placing the sword of Damocles above the heads of the workers of the tobacco factory in Pécs. They can still vote no. Don't put this under the tree as a gift to these workers. They are here on the other side of the Danube, and I think that when they have the opportunity, they will repay you in a manner appropriate to the next vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, to the extent possible. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Fair market conduct? I'd rather talk about decent behavior. To create laws that specifically support only those in your moonyard, just as they did in connection with the traffikmutty... I'm not talking about Szekszárd, I'll give you a Miskolc example, where there were eighty-one-some concessions, two-two! - Fidesz councilman took 20 of them. [[13.00]] It's all right, isn't it? It was fine, of course. The same way as at the time when the margin was raised from 2.5-3 percent to 10 percent after the decisions, as now it is only raised from 10 to 13 again, when it is already known how and how friends are involved in the story. I can't talk about decent behavior here by turning to you. But the least I can do is not talk to you like that. You have to think about what's going on on on the street, you have to think about what's going on on on the street in the coming period, and you have to wonder if you want to be necessarily and at all costs vassals of those who invent these nonsense in your own self-interests, because you're going to end up taking advantage of this, your return in a negative sense. My last thought is that you should always and always consider as a Member how to put an end to the safety of families while talking about something else. They can't shake off their responsibilities and their water, they can't. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As the wind sweeps through the trash, so will the people.
u2014-12-15-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2014-12-15-77	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Very briefly on the summary amendment proposal, since that was the subject of the debate, by the way. Taking into account the Commission's proposal to amend the Committee to conclude the detailed debate, the Legislative Committee has tabled a comprehensive amendment that ensures compliance with the European Community Directive 2006/123 and contains codification and language accuracy. This summarised amendment is in line with the government's position. The government believes that it will further strengthen the objective of protecting health and reducing underage smoking. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] In view of all this, I thank Members for their opinion. I would like your vote in favour of the summarised amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-78	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place today. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the public media service and the media market, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. Independent motion by Mónika Dunai and Bence Tuzson, Fidesz, Members T/2189. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Culture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2189/23. and T/2189/24. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2189/27. and the summary report is T/2189/28. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-12-15-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2189 amending certain laws relating to the public media service and the media market. Bill No. 1. The media regulation, which entered into force on 1 January 2011, regulated the public media system in such a way that the public service tasks were performed by four public service media service providers operating as independent companies, such as Magyar Televízió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Rádió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Telegrami Iroda Nonprofit Zrt. and Duna Television Nonprofit Zrt. Experience over the last four years has shown that it is appropriate, in the light of economic and cost-efficiency considerations, to achieve the merger of the four separate companies. In view of technological developments and the proliferation of new types of media services, the public media system is able to perform its public service mission much more effectively if it is achieved through the coordinated activities of the single company. In view of the ongoing processes and the full implementation of the public service objectives and principles, the proposal aims at bringing together public service media service providers who have performed their public service tasks so far on their own. The integration of both human and material resources within the framework of a single public service media service provider and the resulting more efficient use will contribute, in particular, through the maintenance of quality programming, the continuous expansion of the supply of services and the use of new technical tools, to enable public media to complete its public service mission. In order to achieve the objectives mentioned above, the bill chooses the solution that the other three companies will merge with the current Duna Television Nonprofit Zrt. through a merger. The transformation results only in changes in the number and name of companies. The resulting new company will perform the public service tasks imposed by law alone for all the previous four public service media service providers. The proposal presented provides an opportunity for the structure and structure of public media to be cheaper and more transparent, to provide opportunities for innovation and development, so that public media can launch new channels in the future. The aim of the bill is also to conclude the debates on media law in the EU in recent years, as it contains a number of provisions that harmonise European and Hungarian media regulation. The Committee discussed the amendments made by the Committee on Culture, among which an increase and increase in the percentage of programmes available by hearing impaired people. Our Commission supported the amendments in the background by 20 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the proposals for amendment, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend further, among which I would highlight the original version of foreign language films, which would be made available in a larger percentage. Our committee supported the legislative committee's amendments by 20 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. The Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 20 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai as rapporteur, and I will also inform her that she can use the available time frame of 10 minutes for her comments, the speech during the debate and the closing words; I would just like to say that this is how she should be assigned. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-15-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Thank you very much to my fellow Members for your comments, suggestions and amendments in the general debate and in the Commission's detailed debate. Most of these have shown that the overwhelming majority of my fellow Members agree with the fundamental aim of the amendment tabled. These are the following. The public media system and its structure should be simpler, more transparent and cheaper! Let's give the public media an opportunity to innovate and develop. Let us ensure that the public media can expand with two additional channels. [[13.10]] The third very important issue that we wanted to address in relation to our legislative amendment is to close the media debate in the European Union and in our country a few years ago and to include elements that further harmonise European and Hungarian media regulation. I propose to you the amendments made by the Legislative Committee and the Cultural Committee, and I ask for their adoption. I would like to bring to you four of the most important points. I was very pleased that we were pleased with the amendment aimed at extending the programmes available by hearing impaired people. Another significant point and forwarding proposal was the increase in the proportion of films and series available in the original foreign language. This is very important not only for people with hearing problems, but also for children, young people or adults who speak foreign languages. It was a very important amendment for the development of foreign language competence - thank you very much. It is also very important and also takes forward, I think, the structure of public media, that the Hungarian Academy of Arts can now delegate a member to the public service body. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who's this for?]] And so you will be able to practice this section of your profession even more. The fourth point to be highlighted, proposed by the president of the cable association himself at a committee meeting and asked us not to define the entry into force of the possibility of introducing the two new channels now on 1 January, but to give time to prepare. This proposal has also been accepted, and the amendment to the amendment on the date of 1 July was supported by the committee, and we also support it as rapporteur. Overall, thank you once again for the work of the relevant committees and the valuable contributions of my fellow Members. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-82	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'd like to inform you that the remaining time frame is six minutes and 20 seconds. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Ákos Kara indicated that he would like to speak on behalf of the Government later in the debate. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Pity.]] Dear Parliament, I must now present the position of the designated Cultural Committee. The committee does not wish to set up a special rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-15-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is probably very foreign to ordinary people, when we are here in Parliament, having a very complicated debate on the law on public media services and the media market, which is difficult for them to follow. [[Dr. László Kács: Don't look down on them!]] I would therefore like to say a few words about the changes that the amendments tabled to the bill before us today represent. One of these changes creates the possibility of creating an independent programme for hearing-damaged people, and the principles of using the programme time thus available are determined by the National Interest Protection Organisation for hearing-damaged people. This amendment represents a positive change for hearing impaired people, another step in reducing disadvantages. One of the main issues in their case is that they should have the same access to fresh information as their hearing companions, and should not be disadvantaged by orientation, whether public affairs or information necessary for their personal affairs. The information disadvantage is also a case-by-case disadvantage. This is why it is important to take a step forward in the regulation of the subtitles of television programmes in the field of live broadcasts. It is in the interests not only of the hearing-damaged community, but of all of us, that they succeed in learning and working. The media should also be involved in gaining adequate education and knowledge, as is always the case with hearing people; not least, the media should provide them with a meaningful opportunity to have fun. Therefore, the amendment broadens the scope of television programmes in public media and other media service providers that should be labelled to deaf viewers, including deaf viewers, or made comprehensible by means of a signal. According to the proposal, in the next two years public media will be required to sign at least one third of non-Hungarian films, from 2017 onwards. This is also valid for the series of films, whose subtitles the service provider is obliged to carry through the series. However, broadcasting more films in the original language is not only good news for the hearing-damaged community, but also useful support for those who want to learn languages in this way. We do not need to say that this is very important because of the low domestic proportion of those who speak foreign languages. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that public media is at the forefront in the original language broadcast. I note only in parentheses that at present the legibility of the inscription is not accessible in many cases, so there is also a need to make progress in this area, not only because of hearing impaired, visually impaired or elderly people, but also because of problems with readability due to background color and people's image resolution devices of different image quality. On this basis, it can be said that if this amendment does not do more than move forward in the above areas, it already anticipates a great deal and positive changes. I trust that you will. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, who has also expressed his wish to speak in writing.
u2014-12-15-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It's simpler, more transparent, cheaper - that's what we've heard. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yeah.]] That's what we heard in 2011. In 2011, MTVA was set up to create a simpler, more transparent, cheaper, more public service-enhanced, parallel, organization that works more easily and efficiently for our entertainment and information. That was the summer of 2011. Then it seems that this has failed, honourable Members. Even if, in the summer of 2011, a thousand people were released from the Hungarian Radio, the Magyar Television, in order to rationalise transparency and operating costs. That wasn't enough, 200 people were dismissed in 2013. In general, well-trained editors and hosts, generally pleasing to the community and the audience, were released. But that doesn't seem to be enough. It probably wasn't enough because transparency, in terms of inexpensiveness, has produced programmes in the past, I would say only a few, which, although they didn't bring much ratings, were at least expensive. It was like this, maybe even their creators remember it, we're not very much anymore, this is the epic Martians. The only reason we remember it is because it cost taxpayers 841 million forints. There was a one-day tour, it wasn't cheap either, we can only remember it here because of the amount:. Home or - Hungary, I love you, for HUF 992 million. It's a day's budget. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Hungary performs better!]] The Fábry show, which is constantly decreasing its ratings, will receive HUF 440 million this year as well. You don't care how many viewers it brings, after all, what's good is good, you have to support it every year with the same amount. That's 440 million forints. So far, this show has been paid 1.7 billion forints. What I've just listed here is some HUF 2.4 billion of taxpayers' money. [[13.20]] Yet you have been relieved of 1,200 professionals in terms of transparency, simplicity and inexpensiveness to avoid spending much money, and these funds have been simply thrown out of the window. But now they're gonna regroup, and there's gonna be another rationalization. Out of 80 billion now, MTVA is farming. It is also difficult to understand, my honourable fellow Member, that they are seeking to be simpler, more transparent and inexpensive, but the taxpayers' money is growing, growing and growing every year, and only God knows what is happening to him, because the goals that I have heard here, so that public service principles can be better implemented and finally fulfilled, are not seen. We were here at the debate of the Media Council, we were here in the debate on the NMHH report - it's an empty thing because they don't respond to what we have raised, they simply read what they typed for them, and then the debate is over - and we said there the need for balance, equal opportunities and public service, but as you have twisted the meaning of this, God save us from it being fulfilled. This must not be completed. I think we should reflect on what balance means and what equal opportunities mean. I think that the MTVA may be involved in this, and that the newly created organization - because I think it will be created - could be involved in this, too, with the Media Council. My fellow Member, do you know that you have suggested that the media workers should be obliged to do 400 hours extra work? Don't be offended by the many criticisms, we obviously know that you did not write this legislation with Tuzson Bence, only you tabled it because you didn't have to carry out the negotiations that the government should have. But I don't think you've agreed with the media workers, you haven't gone to MTVA, and not everyone's been up there wanting to work a lot more for the same money. But once you get the media workers working hard, you can be as many C.E.O.s as you want. There must be a CEO for every other public company, from the supervisory board to the board of directors and their alternates, everything is written down in the law exactly where, how much, how much. I can't, please, with one ass I don't know how many horses to ride, you've said that a lot, except for this one case. There can be as many C.E.O.s as you think, without further ado. Of course, you think you have to protect someone here. They don't want to hurt any personal interests, but they can hurt their organizational interests. State institutions can publish any information in any extent without remuneration, and in Hungarian, they have reduced it to Fidesz's mouthpiece, public media and through it you can include as much information, government propaganda, into the now two more taxes as you want, and of course you can even create the legal possibility of doing so. I would like to point out once again: I do not think that you and Tuzson Bence met on a fall evening and thought that we should look at how public media in Hungary works, and I am sure that we all have a good suggestion for it; let us sit down with a few experts and put it together. No, this was prepared by the government, and I'm absolutely sure they'll bypass all the conciliation mechanisms, and there could be more cleansings, of course, or at least in terms of simplicity, transparency and inexpensiveness, I'm sure they won't be working the same way at MTVA, but they're going to spend a lot more. To conclude, a question: if it really was so inefficient, if it really worked so complicated and so expensively, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Member, how could it have happened that this year, October and November we discussed the report of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the Media Council and, of course, of course, the MTVA, and you had no idea about it? The government did not attend these meetings, as these organisations are so incredibly independent that they do not even have to report to the government, nor do they have to report to Parliament. I couldn't get an answer. I got that I can't interpel on this issue. I have not heard from my fellow Members, nor from the government, discussing the reports, nor even before the vote, because you have already voted to look at this because we think it is expensive, complicated and opaque; now it will be simpler and cheap. You voted for it once, so why did you have to bring it here now, especially in order to ensure that in the first six places in the basic package you can only have a public service tax with these two new taxes? So anyone who can only subscribe to the basic package can now only look at the public media torn down into the mouthpiece of the government, and I think you're embarrassingly paying attention to that. And the remaining two channels? I think it only had to be created because it would bring the ratings of M1 up the ranks by two, because under it there will be two more, the two new channels. I don't think we should spend money on this. Once they have accepted that they have managed well so far, if they have accepted that it has been good so far - because they have voted for it - then why did they have to bring this here, especially in this way, not by the government, bypassing the conciliation mechanisms? Just so you can continue to be served by the media in the future. That is why we will not support this. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-15-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After so many years, I always try to be in good faith, even though sometimes I seem naive. Well, I think that there are two fundamental objections to public televisions all over the world. They say it's not public enough, it's not impartial enough and it's not fun enough. If I compare these two and try to apply them to domestic public service television, then I think that, as far as the fun part is concerned, I can agree with all the criticisms. I am convinced that Hungarian literature contains inexhaustible treasures, which we are now simply not using - not under this government, but during the last twenty-some years. May I ask those interested in public television: what prevents them from making masterpieces like St. Peter's umbrella? You have to ask how to say this, if you can't afford to write it from this budget, that's why we have great writers who wrote it, we just have to do something that's worth watching and that's good to watch. As far as public service is concerned, there is no such thing in the world as the opposition sometimes talks about, even if they are not in government, that there is a public service television that constantly broadcasts the voice and programme of the opposition. I don't know anyone like that because the BBC isn't like that. It follows that when some concerns arise, they should be specific. Specific answers can be given to specific questions. A lot or a little? That's the other thing that pops up. Is it a lot or a little money we spent on public television? If I'm looking at what I'm getting pretty much, I'll tell you, it seems like a lot to me. If I look at what could be made of that money, then I have to say that it would be worth adding if there were to be programmes that would really be national and that could really give national entertainment. For my part, therefore, I can support and support any changes that I wish to make with minor or greater changes, but at the same time I think that the changes do not have to end now, but must be made to ensure that the public television really, perhaps even in the world, serves those who will turn public money on it in a unique way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2014-12-15-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-89	Dear Parliament, It is misleading and unacceptable that the two Fidesz nationals have presented this proposal for a salad law this time, bypassing the legislative rules and social consultation. And indeed, though let's say Mónika Dunai took it in his name - as the Erzsébet Menczer of the new cycle [[Defiance.]] - this media law-modifying salad proposal, and although her smile is more appealing, the situation is the same. We see that we cannot have meaningful answers, because there is no one here who actually wrote this proposal, dictated it. Therefore, even if you respected us, let us say, at the committee's second request, with a somewhat meaningful response, I could not, for example, explain why all of my ten amendments had to be swept off so that there was one among them that you agreed with. And they said that maybe the government would submit one of these, and then they would support it. Well, if you didn't look at who is submitting a proposal, as we do, right-wingers do, but look at what is in the proposal, you should have supported it; all the more so, because this proposal didn't say something that you might say differently, but intended to abolish a paragraph of your proposal in the salad law. You can't erase that in two ways. So I think it is very small that, while they are talking about national cooperation, the practice is not on a thank-you basis. And not only has a proposal been swept down that seems, or even explicitly, to be agreed upon, but also something that they said no to, although we could not hear any explanation. Why, for example, should this bill remove the requirement to publish notices of general interest on the M1 tax? After all, this entails the withdrawal of the original function of the communication of public interest. I even tried to argue that, as long as you define what constitutes a public notice, you may even be able to sell a bill-cutting propaganda message as such, but that didn't affect you either. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer, we didn't get a meaningful answer. And what hurts the most of all of our proposals is that the laws of balanced information can continue to be trampled on without consequences. It has not been quite without consequences so far, when I have drawn attention to this serious, most comprehensive media violation, which unfortunately characterizes the entire media in Hungary, not only the public services, because balance is required for radios and televisions, I think, by the way, by law. It was not without consequences, since I drew attention to the fact that the Media Council is in default of law, since it does not carry out its task and does not sanction them until they have been amended. The Media Council's own-initiative obligation to act has been terminated in one of these previous amendments - this has been the result. In fact, after I proposed meetings as chairman of the Press Committee's Audit Committee, in a very unpleasant way for you, I was relieved of this post. In this sense, it was not without consequences that my objection had been made, but I do think that it has been ineffective. However, I am now making an attempt to draw attention to what is clear between the lines with your statistics, even if you do not dare to say that there is a very harsh violation of the law in Hungary without consequences. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I am bringing you statistics from the Media Council of only Fidesz members, and I am bringing here not a missed week, not a missed show, but a national and annual summation of major news programmes, when I find, for example, that in political magazine programmes, if we consider all political appearances as 100 percent, then even a 5-percent party is not the most wanted party, of course Jobbik - not his Majesty's opposition - this is Jobbik's appearance rate. After all, we can say 4.5 percent in terms of the last year's aggregation, while MSZP received 19.4 percent. In fact, even DK received more than 4.5 percent, 5.7 percent, and the Együtt-PM exceeded Jobbik's media presence below the parliamentary threshold by 7.9 percent. It seems that exclusion, the harshest, most illegal exclusion, is for Jobbik, and it is not a coincidence that 90 percent of complaints are filed by Jobbik. However, they will also have no consequences, since the Media Council, composed of only Fidesz members, rejects these better complaints on the basis of order or editorial leave, or on the grounds that the programme should be examined as a whole, a given programme cannot be examined or expected from a given programme. However, such a complaint is not allowed to be filed by the law. And even though I have said this many times, even though we have proposed this, you will also miss out on such salad laws, rejecting our proposals to complain about, for example, the whole of the programme, if the Media Council unfortunately does not act on its own initiative. It is extremely painful for us, in addition to crushing the requirement for balanced information, that you are now further softening the Hungarian music quota. Because let's talk about another quota, not just the parties, but the Hungarian performers. In this context, a 35 percent legislative quota could have been introduced into the law thanks to Jobbik's decisive action in 2010-2011, if not the level we wanted, perhaps 40 percent, but at least 35 percent. We did not think that this would not be achieved so harshly, that, for example, in 2013 the proportion of Hungarian music programmes is less than 35 percent, as defined by law in 35 radio stations. And then what happens? It is not that they would try to increase the proportion of Hungarian music by sanctions or by any other means when there is no more, let us say, Rádió Pannon. After all, while the Media Council's predecessor, the ORTT, was a delegate of all parliamentary factions, so now you, only the Fidesz, share, in fact, the Media Council, composed of only Fidesz members, also shares media service rights. So we are not surprised that there is no, say, a radio broadcasting Hungarian music, as was once Pannon Radio. But now that you're still capable of making this 30-page salad bill, I didn't ask for the third. It is unacceptable to leave, to continue relaxing and to give a loophole to this requirement. We have already seen that you seek to correct violations of the law by means of various legislative amendments instead of prosecuting the crime, right, so you have raised the default threshold to HUF 50,000, that today stealing a bicycle is no longer a crime, so campaign silences have been eliminated; for the greatest pleasure of Gábor Kubatov, the campaign silence has been abolished. Now they are so openly afraid to say that the Hungarian music quota will be abolished, but a loophole will be opened. They are essentially trying to avoid this requirement by digitally renovating old hits and selling them as new to the law. I wanted to draw attention to this in an amending proposal, but unfortunately, you have also swept it off the rails. And then we didn't talk about the fact that between the 35 radio stations, Petőfi Rádió is also a disgrace, which, I think, should lead as a public radio in presenting Hungarian music. And we haven't spoken in particular, and we can't, unfortunately, talk about the shortness of time, the limited nature of the so-called national rock or any other patriotic idea, and the minimum proportion of bands, if at all, can appear on the radio, while often leading the Mahas list, such as Carpathia or Hungarica, to mention only two bands. I think this is unacceptable, and unfortunately you are not willing to do anything about it in the same way as you are in order to achieve balanced political information. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-90	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue with the speeches. From the LMP Group, Mr Schiffer András Group leader follows until the time frame is complete. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-15-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to comment briefly on the previous speakers. Mr President, he suggested why there are no new, high-quality, self-made shows. Congresswoman Vadai yelled out the answer because she took the money from the Martian. Well, when they waste money on such shows, there's no wonder there's no money left for high-quality shows. Congressman Cook, I think you have wrongly objected to the fact that Fidesz has promised a simpler, more transparent and cheaper system here. I think it's done. They forgot to say who this will be easier for, who will be more transparent, and who will be cheaper if this law is fulfilled. Dear Parliament, In this amendment to the media law, once again the legislative method has been developed that there is a vehicle, there are positive goals in this bill, which I think a normal Hungarian MEP should support in this Parliament. I am thinking of what the pro-government representatives have said, of the amendments introduced in favour of hearing impaired people, such amendments may also be those which, let us say, serve to increase the proportion of Hungarian numbers and so on. [[13.40]] It's precisely these vehicles, these sweeteners, that distract attention from the point of view. For example, the extension of the exception to the Public Procurement Act. Not only are the technical tools needed to produce media content, but also the purchase of services is exempted from public procurement, in Hungarian: it is much easier to push the money out to your friends - this means. So while there are positive suggestions, they hide among them bonuses that can be placed under the Christmas tree as a gift to someone again as well as the tobacco laws. The summarised amendment creates the participation and presence of MMA in the public service body. Why? The MMA has no place in the media bodies or in the basic law - it remains our firm position. When drawing up the basic law, they did not give any reason for the need for such a public body in addition to the freedom of artistic life. Dear Parliament, In the debate, Mr Völner also spoke about how people will see what will happen in everyday life. We agree, you'll see what this amendment will do. In addition to the additional costs, cable operators consider that the biggest problems are unpredictability, uncertainty and disproportionate amounts of TVs to be transmitted and advanced in HD on a mandatory basis, as this narrows the opportunities for market participants and the operators no longer have the ability to adequately address consumer needs. So the subscriber says he doesn't want six of them, like it or not, he gets them. That's what people will sense from this amendment of the law. By shutting down the Summer SD data transfer, subscribers are not doing so well either, as those who do not have HD-capable receivers need to get one, i.e. per TV. For example, this implies more serious investment for Hungarians living outside the border. According to our information, most of the people who live here still watch TV in SD. The additional cost will have to be recovered from customers by raising the price of packages, i.e. by one pen stroke, it will be able to put both operators and consumers at a disadvantage. This will be felt by consumers at the border and beyond if this amendment comes into force. Again, it is in their own interests that they amend a law, and they do not take into account the consequences for ordinary people's daily lives. Once again, government propaganda is being forced, and these TV channels need to be prioritised so that harsh government propaganda can be achieved as easily as possible. We have a proposal: instead of this package of media laws, which we have already tabled twice before the House, Parliament must ban government propaganda on public money by amending the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, The next speaker was Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, On the part of the Democratic Coalition, we want a country where the government does not attack, but respects the independent press, and where public television does not silence, but presents all the events that even Fidesz politicians commit. We want a fair trial, even if you have used the money over the last few years, billions of dollars from the budget through this channel, have been forced out of the screen or from the pictures. Therefore, what you are grunting about here cannot be called public service, but it is a public television that serves the government, and you are now spending another HUF 80 billion on it. I cannot be in good faith, as my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, because not only at home but also at international level, it has been established that the media is only partially independent in Hungary, and that is why this law, which you are adopting here, supports and further strengthens. Therefore, the merger of companies by you in this way only strengthens that it is easier for you to steal or steal from those responsible for this. The two Members who have taken responsibility for this will be responsible for this. With all due respect, I suggest that you do not support it, do not accept it, withdraw it, get rid of it, because you do not undertake and do not ensure that there is public service within these limits, but that you operate a public television. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2014-12-15-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of Fidesz, it is Mr Gergely Tapolczai who will take the floor. [[Noise. It's ringing.]]
u2014-12-15-95	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank you for the expansion of my amending proposal in this form, within all the amending proposals. I would also like to thank the Legislative Committee for its support and then also for the support of my fellow Members who have accepted the proposals for amendments to the hearing impaired. I would like to respond to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer. It's not a distraction at all, let's not communicate at all. The amendment on hearing impaired persons is also enshrined in the basic law in the section on the protection of Hungarian sign language. It is a very important amendment that lies before us here. Not only are hearing-damaged people affected by this amendment, but the media service provider is also obliged to provide subtitles for foreign-language, non-Hungarian-language films. This also affects foreigners living in our country, as well as our fellow countrymen studying foreign languages. So we are talking about thousands of people who are affected by this amendment. So I resent such an adjective that this would be a distraction. This is a very serious, serious matter, and I thank my fellow Members in advance for their support and attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-15-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Ákos Kara asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-15-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly and only to the types of points that have been raised here. In view of the fact that the opposition has come up several times during the debate, I would like to confirm that its intention is indeed to change the social background of the public media system, and its intention is indeed to make it better, more efficient and ultimately cheaper. I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that during the various Commission debates there was a way and opportunity to do so, and we have already said that the proposals that have come forward either in relation to our deaf fellow Members, in relation to hearing impaired people, or even to language learning, are very important elements of the proposal. At the same time, I would like to say that, although it comes as a Commission amendment, it was my fellow Members who, of course, put forward a proposal to this effect, who later formed and embodied in the amendment of the Legislative Committee. I would like to point out that the amendments supported by the Committee on Culture and the Legislative Committee are agreed by the Government and we therefore ask our fellow Members for their adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Mónika Dunai if she wishes to close. Yes, you have six minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-15-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to start with the idea of Laszlo Varju. We do agree that the media must be independent. I think this is a fundamental point and a common point between our positions. However, I must add that the media is independent of the fact that we here in Parliament do not interfere with programming and content issues. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Előd Novák: You are not here, you are in the editorial offices! Zoltán Lukács: He's right!]] [[13.50]] It is our job here in Parliament to decide on budgetary resources for public television and its structure and structure. And one more - although my fellow Member has now run out on my previous speech - I would like to say that what he has said about thefts is a very serious accusation and a very strong term. I'd say it's personal. [[Grumbles and interrogations in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik, among them: Let's hear it! Let's hear it. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'd like to say that I've never given my name to steal anything in my life. [[Zoltán Lukács: They don't want it!]] I will never give or give my name to any theft. I ask that my fellow Member, if he thinks he is aware of any crime, is obliged to indicate it in the appropriate places and to initiate proceedings. [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of opposition parties.]] We do not live or want to live in a country of accusations. Thank you very much for László Szakács's suggestions, but I also think that he has violated an important democratic fundamental right when he questioned whether I have the right to bring a legislative amendment to this House with my fellow Member Bence Tuzson. [[Noise. Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Every Member has the right to do this, you have the right to do it, and Parliament will decide whether to take it on a series of subjects. I think it's about a bill. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not about talking about it, and people don't care who the author is. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Constitutional Court is interested!]] The important thing is, it's more important what that amendment contains. We need to talk about content issues, and I am moving quickly to content reactions. This amendment does not contain any intention of dismissal. None of his points support this. You said, my fellow Member, László Szakács, that you are not interested in the perception of the results of the authors and the public media. Yes, it is! That's exactly why the EU rules are harmonised. [[Dr. László Kács: Cinism!]] , according to which public service measurement and public service strategy are to be prepared by the public media each year. The basic package - this has been raised by several of my fellow Members - yes, I think that we in Parliament should take care of public televisions and broadcasters. [[Dr. László Kács: Why did they accept the report?]] And it is very important that in the basic packages, besides the four so far, if they can start more in the spirit of development and innovation, they have the opportunity. This is a regulation of its legislative framework. If the public media will think that it will launch one or two more channels, we will be able to do so in this amendment of the law, and we will create the framework. In this I ask for the support of my fellow Members. Whether commercial televisions are excluded from the basic packages is again not a question of the media law. We're not suggesting that. All broadcasters and broadcasters decide for themselves how many channels and channels the basic package contains. We are proposing that public service channels be included; this is the only way that the principle of public service will apply. There was indeed one of the amendments tabled by Mr President Novak, which was also supported by others - on the part of the portfolio - and is now part of the legislative committee's proposal. This would be an exemption from a certain truck stop for public service delivery trucks. I should like to point out that this point has not been taken out or proposed from the package of proposals that we have tabled because we would have given up this intention. But we agreed with the wallet that we would not regulate this in this law, but in a separate law. About the Hungarian Academy of Arts: My fellow Member, András Schiffer, said - we know his position - that he no longer agrees with the existence of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. You may think that you disagree with the existence of the Hungarian Academy of Arts [[Dr. András Schiffer: Association!]] However, in Hungarian legislation, the Hungarian Academy of Arts is quite clearly defined and tells us what tasks it has to perform, including with regard to public service. It is therefore appropriate that the Committee on Culture drew attention to this and, in its amendment, we give the Academy of Arts the opportunity to delegate a member to the College. [[Dr. András Schiffer: And why is that good? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] President Novak's proposal concerns the digitisation of pre-1990 works. There wouldn't be less, I wouldn't agree with the fact that there are fewer Hungarian shows on the radio. What we're talking about here is the 1990...
u2014-12-15-100	Congresswoman, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but your time is up.
u2014-12-15-101	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the timely warning. Thank you once again to everyone who has improved this bill with their valuable proposal and amendment. I would ask this House to accept the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. László Kács: Why did you accept the report?]]
u2014-12-15-102	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that decisions will be taken on this proposal today. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The LMP Group has proposed that the National Assembly decide CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. T/1276 amending Act T/1276 on the need to keep central bank operations within reasonable limits. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. I am now asking the authors who would like to make a five-minute statement on this matter. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For more than six months there has been no supervisory board of the National Bank of Hungary to monitor the legal management of the central bank. During this time, the Hungarian National Bank spent 350 billion HUF, in a way that cannot be derived from the Central Bank Act. As you know, he bought several large-value luxury estates and contributed HUF 200 billion to his foundations, György Matolcsy's unorthodox theories. Of course, these are found by accident - mostly thanks to the press - although it is a large amount of money, but the Parliament is not informed about it. The LMP has repeatedly initiated the hearing of György Matolcsy before various committees concerned, but the majority of the government did not allow it to be placed on the agenda. Why? What's there to hide? If there was nothing to hide, they could have been able to audition and even have a supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank. The latest news is that the Hungarian National Bank bought the most expensive house in the country. For some 3.4 billion HUF, the Hatvany villa was purchased by one of the five foundations set up by the Hungarian National Bank in the Buda Castle. He also bought another property of a similar nature, worth almost HUF 2 billion. It's supposed to be an event and education center. What is certain is that the MNB pays 30 percent more than the book value for the villa: HUF 3.4 billion instead of 2.5 billion. This was also the case for the Eiffel Palace, which is 100% Cypriot-owned. The offshore investor cost less than EUR 31 million to buy and renovate the office building, which was then sold to the Hungarian National Bank for a net amount of EUR 45.3 million. Why? Who's gonna answer that? The MNB manages public money, honourable Members. Its operation is governed by the requirement of economy as well as by all public institutions. Wasteful, urizing spending, luxury investments in the central bank are unacceptable, but it seems that the Uring has become a fashion among the governing party, while foreign exchange loans are forinted at the market rate. This is about HUF 100 billion in profits for the central bank. [[14.00]] Since very serious amounts are being paid virtually uncontrollablely, LMP is initiating the establishment of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank as soon as possible. Today, it is fair to say how much the majority of governments consider it important to use public funds in a cost-effective way, as we are voting on the inclusion of the LMP proposal to limit the MNB's spending within a reasonable framework. This proposal to amend the law states that the MNB should not engage in activities that are not related to its tasks as defined in the Central Bank Act or use its assets to carry on such activities. For the purposes of social responsibility, maximum revenue from fines may be used. The proposal would also put an end to the recently established foundations of the MNB. We ask for the support of our proposals.
u2014-12-15-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform the House that, in accordance with the regulations of the House, one representative from each group of Members may now speak within a two-minute time frame and the independent Member to speak to the first. I'm asking who wants to live with it. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr Csaba Tóth. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As a result of the Central Bank Act, the Hungarian National Bank should primarily carry out its tasks set out there, such as achieving, maintaining, maintaining the stability of the financial intermediary system and, through them, helping economic policy. Last week, President György Matolcsy told the Economic Committee that the operation of the Hungarian National Bank is stable and predictable. Indeed, he was right, because the Hungarian National Bank has spent ten billion in a stable and predictable way to perform tasks that do not fall within the scope of its core tasks. It spends tens of billions on the distribution of unorthodox economics and buys property for ten billion through various foundations, where we will not know where they come from. And while he was reporting to the Economic Commission, it came to light that they had bought the Lónyay villa at the Castle for billions of forints. These properties could be listed again, from the castle of Tiszaroff to the IPOSZ-house, to the old town hall of Buda, but one of them needs to be highlighted, the Eiffel Palace mentioned earlier. Eiffel Palace was purchased for EUR 45.3 million, before it was sold in one of the materials of the National Investment Agency for EUR 40 million at the beginning of the year, January. So he bought a property sold for EUR 40 million six months later for EUR 45,3 million, and he could not answer what cost him more. To date, the Hungarian National Bank does not have a supervisory board, the supervisory board does not have the authority to check its operations and can be accountable for this. So the Socialist Group will certainly support the inclusion of this bill in the series of articles. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-15-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-107	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik fully supports at least the negotiation of the proposal before us, since we cannot advance a decision. We have to say, it is a huge problem that the MNB is ultimately operating without a supervisory board. Here István Varga was the delegate of Jobbik, he was able to put a lot of improvements on the table, which he can now only do at the protests organised by Jobbik and for those who have been damaged by foreign currency credit, because neither you nor you have made sure that such an organization exists and works. It is absolutely justified that the MNB should only carry out activities related to its tasks as defined in the Central Bank Act or carry out activities that are not clearly classified here. At least the portfolio management practice that this institution carries out can be considered unorthodox. Even at the Commission hearing, the President of the Central Bank was unable to provide a reassuring response to the maladministration surrounding the acquisition of the Eiffel Palace. According to one of his answers, it is also common among central banks in Western Europe to buy holiday homes, to maintain real estate through different real estate channels. We must say that there can be no answer and there can be no reason why central banks in Western Europe are of this type and have this amount of resorts. In Hungary, in a bled-out farm, there are very different tasks and responsibilities. It can be seen that while the MNB spends a great deal of money on so-called unorthodox economic policy education, it is absolutely not certain that this is in line with the central bank law and in sync, at least this could be the subject of a debate, this debate should be conducted by the House, but in the meantime the MNB can show a single, perhaps a bit odd, profit margin, a volume of 100 billion, which was born in connection with the foreign exchange credit victims. Jobbik suggests that all this should be grouped into a compensation fund, and that this should help those with the most difficult credit damage, those who have already been evicted, and those whose contracts have been terminated, but all this needs to be discussed and discussed. We are talking about urgent and urgent issues, so we call on all Members to support at least that this can be negotiated. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group of the LMP, spoke. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-15-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal that we are asking for to be included in the series of articles - therefore, not yet its adoption - means that if we are discussing this and if this is accepted by this House, we will save hundreds of billions of HUF for the Hungarian taxpayers. The foundations and the activities that the central bank led today by Matolcsy does not carry out and maintain in order to carry out its basic constitutional tasks are hundreds of billions minus for the Hungarian taxpayers each budget year. If these foundations were not, if these different crazy purchases were not, this hundreds of billions of forints would be there in the Hungarian budget, for example, hundreds of billions of forints could be used to compensate for the shortage in the educational register that has occurred in the last five or six years. Dear Parliament, Of course, there is a need to finally teach not only neoclassical schools in economics in Hungary, but then the available resources and public funds must be given to the educational register and given to higher education institutions. There is no need for the central bank to order foundations for hundreds of billions of forints. Money that would remain without foundations at the central bank would be repaid as dividends to the central budget. Instead, what happens is that the central bank not only orders foundations, but also buys real estate, and after not accepting the LMP's proposal to sweep the offshore knights out of the country and the public property area, the central bank enriches offshore knights with public funds in its transactions. Not least, the hundred billion forints that have damaged foreign exchange credit victims by HUFing on a market basis will also be paid for these foundations and for various offshore knights. This is a situation that we want to put an end to. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker was Mr Lajos Oláh, an independent Member. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The independent representatives of DK fully support the LMP's proposal to include this issue in a series of issues. We consider it important to talk about the uncontrolled spending of the Hungarian National Bank at least within the framework of Parliament. We are not very confident that the pro-government representatives will listen to reason, but at least we have the opportunity to talk about the hundreds of billions that are being invested in real estate and foundations, real estate and foundations in which they want to teach virtually a failed economic policy. We are confident that our fellow Members will at least allow us to take the matter into consideration and to negotiate it. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the authors whether they wish to respond to what has been said in two minutes. Please sign in with a button. Yes, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-113	We would like to thank the opposition parties for their support for the inclusion on the agenda. We believe that opposition parties also feel the weight of the wasteful management of the Hungarian National Bank. If this HUF 350 billion could be put into the budget as a dividend, child poverty could be solved in Hungary, for example. [[14.10]] However, it could be used for a very, very large number of items to which the majority of the government is trying to collect taxes from the 2015 budget in a completely ad hoc manner. We very much hope that the majority of the government will testify today, and that the majority of the government will vote in favour of supporting the LMP [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] a proposal to amend the law. Thank you very much for the opposition's supporting proposal and we also trust the support of the Fidesz-KDNP majority.
u2014-12-15-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that a decision will be taken at the end of today's decisions. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/2022 amendment of individual laws to facilitate the flexible work of parents with small children. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Since I see that Mrs Bernadett Wind is standing up to speak, I will give the floor to her rapporteur in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-15-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Lords of the Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this is a proposal that should be of interest to parties, but since the two-thirds unfortunately voted off the inclusion of the subject series, I would like to give you, in fact, an opportunity for the proposal, but also for you in the ranks of the governing parties, to understand how important this issue is, how important it is for more women to be able to work in this country. Possibly Other Politics has been fighting for years to put women in a position on the labour market. As many laws as we bring in, that's how many you vote down. I could say that you have so many confessions before your female electorate that the governing parties really don't want women in the labour market to come to terms with the demographic crisis of our country. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] and all the skills, all the years you've studied, all the enthusiasm, the attitude that women can add to the country's economy, you don't want to give it to the country or the women. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You usually cover three things when I say that flexible employment should be ensured for Hungarian women. One is usually the job protection action plan, the other is part-time and the third is the newly announced family support action plan. Unfortunately, you're wrong about all three of them, and these measures are not going to produce the results that you say are effective. Let's start with the job security action plan. As proud as you are of this, I think that the figures clearly show that last year the employment of women with small children has decreased; so much so that we are actually last in the EU. If we look at how many women can work, who have children less than three years old, and how many women can work, who have children less than six years old, we are the last of both indicators in the European Union. After that, I think that you cannot sit back and say that you do not have to put women in a position. Practically all EU countries are ahead of us in this indicator. It's a big problem, my esteemed colleagues. And with regard to part-time work, I can tell you that it is not a solution. It is clear that, in July 2012, when the new Labour Code came into force, the number of mothers who have been working part-time has been decreasing ever since. Obviously, this shows that the measure has not succeeded, but that it has gone wrong. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] And the third is the family support action plan. In this regard, I always tell you that we need action now rather than an action plan. This is, on the one hand, full of amendments that simply do not happen - there is something that has already been partly achieved, and there is something that is ineffective - so overall, we do not consider it a good package of measures, and it will not solve the crisis. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] I would add that we had a lot of suggestions that came from life, and it was very lifelike, such as supporting female entrepreneurs and self-employed people with reduced contributions. It's quite normal that if a woman wants to sign up after having her baby, she can't produce the full social security. For years, we have been asking you to have a gradually expanding social security system every time you hear it, to be voted down as many times as you do. In the same way, we say that cradle and family day care should be given greater support, there should also be a Commissioner for Labour, every time you hear him, he will always be voted down. This proposal is nothing more than the opportunity for women with small children to work in flexible working hours, both in the public sector and in the competition sector. I believe that Minister János Lázár is not the top of the organisation of work; it is a pity that he runs a ministry if he does not know the basic truth about how to motivate workers by considering their special situation in life and how normal it is in the modern world that performance increases the better the organisation of work. You are proud that your ministry is not family-friendly, but I am very proud that neither is the country, and I think that there would be a perfectly normal need for women returning from childbirth to not have to wait three years at home, during which they can be fired, by the way, if they go back to work - I will say a few sentences about this - but they can agree with the employer that if part-time work is not suitable for him because he cannot make a living with so much money, he can return to work in a flexible form of work. We think it's a standard requirement, but you don't think it is, so this proposal has been voted out. In particular, I would like to add that I saw a lot of Fidesz guys who were shocked to hear that you were the ones who made women with small children get fired when they went back to work. Yes, it was the Fidesz-KDNP government, who introduced a regulation that if these women, by the way, use the weed extra and go back to work, they would be on the street. The Possibly Other Politics has asked for your support in this, too, to end this shameful action, which has not been right for us, has not been given the opportunity for women. I think it's another time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] To prove that you are not just family friends at the rhetorical level. Support this bill.
u2014-12-15-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to speak in a two-minute time frame for each faction and for the first independent Member. Accordingly, I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament.
u2014-12-15-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From public service officials onwards, those covered by the Labour Code are affected by the series of proposals. You know, public servants whose fifth year of civil servant salary was HUF 38 650 - unchanged, there has not been a government in which your government has remained unchanged in the past four years - and the other part concerns the range of civil servants subject to the Labour Code, for whom a lot of unfair measures have been taken in recent years, many that have led to a reduction in their protection. This series of proposals aims to mitigate this in practice, especially in relation to the location and protection at work of mothers with small children. I'll give you an example, which is why, if for no other reason than this, you have a dog duty to support this series of articles. And the fact that you have interrupted the security that was about the fact that if a mother with a child, under three years of age, had returned to the labour market, there was virtually a termination ban during the previous period; not yours, during the period of the government that preceded you. You guys kicked it. You have adopted a law within which, if you raise a child under three years of age and then go back to work, you can also be fired by proper termination within the framework of your employment. This is shameful, while you keep telling me where and how you have provided help. I said that I would recommend to you the acceptance and support of the series of articles, because if it is even a little Christian Democrats who are sitting next to Fidesz, then on the basis of the values, you should support this series of articles. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We support it.
u2014-12-15-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President of the Jobbik Group asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-119	Dear Parliament, We also consider it important to facilitate the flexible work of parents with small children because, contrary to popular beliefs, women's participation in the labour market entails the birth of more children. Therefore, it is also in the interests of the national economy, especially if I dare to say more and more of what Jobbik has boldly said in its programme that Hungary's biggest problem is population loss, and if you would dare to say so, then something should be changed. It is therefore necessary that the State also assists in the care of children during the day. It is therefore important that, in addition to part-time work, teleworking, flexible working hours, compressed work week and the division of jobs, and their combination, there is indeed more serious support, but it is also important to abolish the crèche care fee introduced by the Fidesz government. I mean, while you're talking about the lack of cradle seats, in contrast to that, you've made the cradle money under the previous Orbán government, as far as the care fee is concerned, we're not talking about eating. [[14.20]] You also have to pay for the care fee. Therefore, I think it should start with the fact that if we really want to make it easier for parents with small children to work in order to provide nursery care. It is unacceptable that János Lázár is no longer ashamed to say that the Prime Minister's Office, I quote, is unfortunately not a family-friendly workplace. Such messages and the fact that the Prime Minister's Office is not obliged to work for anyone are extremely damaging to the employees of other public administrations and thus to the demographic catastrophe of our country. And why parents with small children want to go back, there are many reasons for this. One is that, in some cases, the family tax relief, which you talk about so much, which is not a follower of inflation, has been reduced by its real value year after year, because you refuse to extend it to new taxes after contributions, as Jobbik has repeatedly suggested that everyone [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] lower incomes are also able to fully benefit from family tax relief. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-120	Thank you very much. From the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer is the leader of the Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In relation to what my fellow opposition Members have just said on the statement of the Chancellor's Minister the other day, I would like to make it clear that when it comes to the working conditions of the Prime Minister's Office or the Parliament's Assembly, it is about how much family-friendly it works, let us say, Parliament or the Prime Minister's Office, it is not about what privileges the political elite should have. It is about the fact that when the most important offices, the public office at the top of the public administration, show some attitude, it transmits to the entire public administration and transmits to the whole labour market. So if the most important administrative institution is not family-friendly, it is very difficult to expect any other employer to be family-friendly. Dear Parliament, In the last four years, of course, everyone in this country has experienced that the flexible labour market means that Hungarian workers can be fired from their jobs freely and easily. Hungarian workers are free to be kept in a state of uncertainty. This is what the flexible labour market has meant since 2011. The flexible labour market, on the other hand, in more fortunate countries, is quite different. What we would like to introduce by the bill is flexibility in terms of working time and work, for example, to integrate parents with small children into the labour market, in line with specific life situations and needs. We are talking about a flexible labour market, for example, when parents with small children, not only are we trying to create working conditions in relation to the life situation of women and men, and, of course, the labour market is flexible even if 40-50-year-olds are able to change professions freely. There's no resources for that today. I think that Parliament should negotiate all proposals that really point towards a flexible labour market and not increase, but reduce the uncertainty of Hungarian workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you.
u2014-12-15-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Of the independent Members, Ms Zsuzsa Szelényi asked for the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-15-123	Thank you very much. I would like to say three things about this proposal. On the one hand, women in Hungary, as in most of Europe's countries, are significantly better qualified than men. If this fundamental fact is not considered important by the Hungarian legislation, it does not consider women to be a substantial resource, it is a big problem. So I strongly suggest that you keep that in mind. That is also true in this Parliament, by the way. The other issue that I would like to talk about is that, over the last thirty years, GDP has been moving forward in all developing and developed countries, and its growth has been significantly driven by the large number of women entering the labour market according to their qualifications. Understandably, this can be done by considering their lives, working conditions, living conditions, and children. The Hungarian legislation must take into account all the factors that are important for the rational work of women. Then GDP will also increase, unlike today. Thirdly, a government, a country in which demographic data show a decrease, should take into account the Swedish paradox that much more children are born in Europe in countries where women's employment in the workplace is flexible, reasonable, family-friendly and philanthropic. I suggest that you support this proposal. We will definitely propose and support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the independent and LMP.]]
u2014-12-15-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask the authors whether they wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett says yes.]] Yes, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind indicates that she wishes to respond. I'll wait for the... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett will fix your microphone.]] Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-125	Thank you. I'm a little sorry there were no reactions from the government side, but I'll tell you once again that when they vote, you will press a button on, among other things, whether women with children under three years of age can be fired from their jobs or not fired. This wasn't supposed to be fired before you. We think it's supposed to mean elemental immunity so a woman with a baby can't find herself on the street. You have stopped this. Here is another opportunity to consider their ideas and restore the order that existed in this country before you began to govern. I wonder how many of you will be willing to vote that out. I guarantee you that you will know this, because it is amazing, my fellow Members, that for years we have been watching you constantly humiliate and put women on impossible jobs in the labour market. I would particularly like to point out that you are always talking about part-time work. A very narrow layer is the solution. But I'd like to know how many of you know how much a part-time minimum wage is. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thirty-three thousand forints! Do you really think that if a woman raises her child alone, because she has one, and goes on part-time work, they will announce it at minimum wage, is it enough to bring home 33 thousand forints? These women, women, should also have the flexibility to work! The whole of Europe is going in this direction. Give me a good reason why Hungary does not follow the good example! In particular, I would like to highlight the shameful pattern of fever, who, in front of the country-world, agreed that his ministry was not family-friendly. How many bosses, how many leaders did you set an example of how lightly you can judge family workers? I gave him a diploma once, and it said that he won first place in the non-family-friendly category this year. You know what the worst part was? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] John Lazarus evidently was proud of that. Be a little more reasonable and give a green light to a proposal that seeks to reverse a very terrible state. Thank you.
u2014-12-15-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will be taken at the end of today's votes. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide the T/1821 on the compulsory acquisition of wealth by Members of Parliament, members of the Government and the State Secretarys. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, rapporteur of the proposal, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The events of the past period have strengthened more than ever the public opinion that the obligation of Members and political leaders to make declarations of assets does not provide sufficient protection against abuse. There is a series of matters of wealth in some political circles, and it has become clear that the current system does not provide any guarantees against this extremely harmful phenomenon, and so a radical reform of the system is needed. This bill combats corruption in two directions, the most widespread form of political crime. On the one hand, Parliamentary Members and political leaders will be required to carry out a mandatory wealth growth investigation, which will be carried out at the beginning and at the end of the mandate by the NAV staff, and from which there is no exception, it will be binding on the Prime Minister as well as on him who was only a representative for one day. The other direction is the most comprehensive detection of previous abuses, the strictest sanctioning of the available tax and criminal sanctions system; on this basis, all Members of Parliament and political leaders after 1990 will have to face responsibility. There is a huge demand for accountability in society, my fellow Members. That's what you know, because before 2010, Fidesz campaigned with it. He campaigned that there would be accountability in this country, and then they became governments, and when they came to government, unfortunately, they no longer feel that this issue is so important. [[14.30]] Of course, we are aware that there is relatively little chance of unraveling the threads of a corruption case 20 years ago, but this cannot be counterproductive when, after all this time, at least the legislative background and the theoretical possibility are constructed by the Parliament for these accountabilitys to be carried out. Another regrettable trend is that some politicians have their goods purchased from their wrongful profits written in the name of their family members, trying to hide their fraudulent dealings. Currently, family members' declarations of property are not public. Only members of the commission can look into it, and this proposal would change that by publishing the property declarations of members of the family of Members and political leaders without a mandate. Given that family members are not public figures, their declarations of property would not contain their personal data, but voters would have direct information on their financial situation not only for politicians but also for their families, which would reduce the possibility of abuse and increase public confidence. Many times, you refer to the fact that EU directives must not be opposed. I would like to tell you that, among the Member States of the European Union, Members' declarations of assets in Greece, Lithuania and Romania should also include declarations of property for spouses and children, which, together with the Member's declaration of assets, should be made public. On this basis, it is clear that this bill is not unprecedented in Europe. During the Commission's debate, we heard very strange arguments. To quote only two, one counterargument on your part was that if we adopted this bill, it would suggest to the people that every congressman is corrupt, cheating, and lying. Dear fellow Members, The one who said that, and maybe if you think he was right, you're out of touch with reality, too. Not in adopting this bill would people think so, but unfortunately now people think that all Members of Parliament are corrupt, cheating and lying. And I don't agree with that. I believe that here in Parliament, most of the Members are honest and there is nothing to be afraid of. That is why I ask you to support this bill, because it is also in your interest not to hide the minority who can make the Members of Parliament appear in such a bad light. If you're honest, I'm convinced, you have nothing to hide. An honest man will vote in favour of this law, since there is nothing to fear, it does not matter whether it is his declaration of property or his wife's declaration of property. After all, it has also been said that we would violate the privacy if family members had a public declaration of property. Ladies and Gentlemen, I've been married for 20 years, over 20 years, what we have, my car is my wife's car, which we have, that's ours. So there's no such thing as mine or his, that's common, that's ours. And if you have nothing to be ashamed of, you're welcome to support this bill. In the interests of a cleaner public life, I would like to ask you to support this bill in a series of subjects. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible for one Member per faction and the first independent Member to make a two-minute speech. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó from the MSZP Group first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the bill before us would require a compulsory asset-growth investigation at the NAV for all persons who have been appointed as Members of Parliament since 2 May 1990, a member of the government or some sort of State Secretary, and, therefore, the bill would also significantly modify the rules on the declaration of Members of Parliament's assets. Ladies and gentlemen, We see that institutions, even in the current legislative context, which would lead to the fact that the head of the public authority or anyone else should meet the legal consequences of committing any illegal activity, even without personalised legislation, where appropriate. Moreover, the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is that whether it is an illegal increase in property or a baseless accusation referring to it, the only solution can be to ensure the public as widely as possible and to carry out independent and effective control. This is also in the interests of all of us, including my fellow members of the Government, who must indeed be seen as being honest, but also of those who abuse the confidence of the electorate. We therefore support the inclusion of the bill in the series of articles. Thank you.
u2014-12-15-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer is the leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-15-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, we support the inclusion of this proposal in the series, as LMP has already come up with a similar type of bill at the beginning of the year. The difference is that we are not just talking about the members of the government or the Members of Parliament, but we are saying that the growth of the entire political elite must be examined on a regular and compulsory basis. The system of declaration of assets alone is not sufficient for this. Our Fidesz fellow Member at the Justice Committee said that what we have just heard from the rapporteur here is that he does not support these proposals because Jobbik and LMP put forward because it undermines trust and paints a picture as if politicians were stealing; then I am obliged to say with great respect that people already think so. It is not because of such proposals that people think that politicians are stealing, but because there has been no accountability in the last 25 years; it is because this country has become a country without consequences since the change of regime. The compulsory regular propertyisation investigation is about making sure that all people, all taxpayers, are convinced that the people paid by the public actually grow as their legitimate income supports it. In our view, in the case of the political elite, this should not be done by the tax authority, but by the Court of Auditors. It is very important, it is not only about the representatives, it is not just about the members of the government, it is about the leaders of state-owned local government-owned companies, the leaders of local governments, everyone who, by the way, owns public property. It will restore citizens' confidence that from time to time, every taxpayer can be convinced of how a politician living in public money in the world could afford a luxury car and a luxury swimming pool. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novak is next. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-133	Dear Parliament, I have the pleasure to inform you that Jobbik supports Gábor Vona's motion, which György Szilágyi and our fellow Member have tabled, and this may not be surprising, but rather that he accepted the radical targeted by Jobbik in Greece and, for example, Romania. [[Intruders from Fidesz: Then go there!]] change in this area, what we want in terms of declarations of assets. And that is to make it public; yes, the spouses, the children, these are the latest scandals when we think of the ten - year - old son of János Lázár, who owns a fork of 70 million, and the scandals pop out. Last time I checked the wealth of Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, and here in Parliament I took the liberty of asking whether he was really poor as a mouse of the church. And I think that what arises in the media, and in general, is indeed a violation of the dignity of Parliament, that some Members hide their assets in the name of small children or even spouses, which unfortunately became common. That is why we consider it necessary to have full publicity, because let us say that the current form of declarations of assets is a fraud. What you're doing, and what the MSZP has previously maintained, didn't want to change it while you were on the wheel, it's a hoax, because none of this shows up. There are thousands of loopholes, the easiest, isn't it, if you simply, say, attribute a spouse or a child to some amount of money that lies at home or even in a bank account? Therefore, this needs to be changed. That is why, at the beginning of the term, on the first working day, on the day of the Parliament's inaugural meeting, Gábor Vona and I presented the bill aimed at combating political crime, which was already largely part of this proposal. It has now been supplemented with the publicity of the spouses' declaration of property. There is still much work to be done, as we can see that you, for example, continue to hide the State Secretary's declaration of property. The Jobbik won't give up giving them full publicity. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Of the independent Members, Mr Péter Kónya has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.40]]
u2014-12-15-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, as an independent Member, I will certainly support the inclusion in the series of articles of this amendment, although I consider the amendment to the law to be an exception. In any case, it is positive that not only the current Members and future Members and politicians are subject to the amendment of the law, but also, after the change of regime, it would look retroactively at the growth of the wealth of politicians. I think it's a positive element of the law amendment. At the same time, I must agree with my colleague, Schiffer, that this should be examined much more widely, and obviously this amendment does not cover how to examine the wealth growth of the stromones, since we know that many of our fellow politicians hide behind their assets, their hidden, stolen and corrupt assets. I definitely think that, after a similar amendment was tabled last week by our fellow Members of the LMP, and our fellow Members and Members of the Government voted against it, they will probably vote against it now. At the same time, there is a saying: those with butter on their head should not go into the sun. If you vote no for such an amendment, you will give your constituents the message that you have butter on your head. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2014-12-15-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now giving Congressman György Szilágyi the opportunity to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since the opinions of all the factions and independent representatives have been heard, the Fidesz-KDNP fact alone has not been expressed on this issue, I hope that in the vote it will not be that you alone will not want to have a clearer public life, and I hope that it is not your collective opinion that is not what you heard in the speech by the President of Novák when he mentioned the Greek and Romanian examples, we heard from one of your fellow Members who shouted that you should go there, so let us go there if we want them to be public in order to be a clearer, more transparent public place. I meant it, and I mean it, that I believe that most of the Members who are sitting here in Parliament today are equally suffering subjects in these matters. I believe that a large part of the Members support their family honestly, only with the money they earn from work, and that this is how they grow. But whoever does and does has nothing to fear. It is in your best interest to finally have a transparent and clean public life, and it is in your best interest not to protect a minority that might give you a bad look. I therefore ask you to support this bill, and even if you do not fully agree with, for example, this bill, and there have been criticisms here, if you include it in a series of subjects, then we can discuss it, submit amendments to it, make this law even better. So I would very much like to ask you to vote, because if you are honest, you have nothing to hide, I will say it again, and it will soon be decided how many honest Members are sitting in this Parliament and how many people have something to hide, and therefore you will not vote for this law. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will be taken at the end of today's votes. We have reached the final point of debate before the votes. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to take the necessary measures to combat sexual crimes committed under 18 years of age. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. I will ask the authors who would like to speak within a five-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Congressman Sebestyén said it. Press the button, please, because they can't give you the floor until then. Thank you very much. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As at the meeting of the Judicial Committee and afterwards on the oral question, I also maintain that this proposal for a resolution must be negotiated by Parliament and introduced in some form. What we are talking about here is that those who have committed sexual crimes against persons under the age of 18 should have their place of residence as public data. The proposal for a resolution was formulated directly so that it could be a broad concept, even during the debates the Parliament or even the government could establish their position on the form in which this could be introduced in Hungary. As was the answer to my oral question, this should be examined by the judicial wallet, and I believe that, as well as the Fidesz proposal on the drug test, by the end of February, the wallet can consider whether this measure can be introduced from a constitutional or international legal point of view, and in what form, and then it could be done, because I believe and believe that any problem, this pedophile problem, can only be dealt with in complex terms. I see some kind of shift in the way the child protection signalling system works more effectively, I see some intention on the part of the EMMI, of course, that these may be just pretend measures, but we also need to take much more radical, much more drastic action in the area of prevention and sanctioning, in the area of legal consequences. One of them would be this. I believe that, in a rule of law, the extent to which rights are enforced is indeed a discretion. Indeed, there are many times that certain more vulnerable groups, in this case under the age of 18, are, let us say, a greater right to protect children than the personal rights of those who commit these types of crimes. Indeed, a parent, a child, has the right to know in which geographically vulnerable area his child is, on which part it is, in which geographical location it is, in which part of the city, on which street or in which house there is a man who might be able to hunt a minor child. This is something the parent has the right to know, he has the right to know how to avoid these places, and the lawmaker and the government must have the wisdom to determine in what form he can do so. We know the American example, we know what practice there is in the United States. If I enter a name in the U.S. or enter a neighborhood, it will come out with a special signature, a photo, a crime, where it works and where it lives. I am not saying that this is a saving solution, because many times it could lead to vigilante action, it could even cause tragedies, but I am saying that this could mean a step forward even in the deterrent or even in the consequences of the law, because if someone in the pervert's mind turns to commit a sexual crime against a child under 18 years of age, then he also has to turn around that his neighbors may know what crime he committed until the legal outcome is over. You'll get a legitimate stigma. I think that we need to support this, I think that [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] must be included in a series of articles. As I said, our proposal for a resolution is quite broad. It is possible to make a decision that can be incorporated into European, international or Hungarian law. I think that we need to have a debate on this. I think that we need to make a decision on this, and I think that with this decision we need to empower the government to take this measure in order to protect our children, because what I have already said in my oral question, of course, there are these pretense scandals between the United States and the government, but many times as an apostle of democracy, they follow the United States as minions, many times in cases that are outrageous to me as a national radical. I think that in such a legitimate claim, such a legitimate measure should also take the trouble and follow the American example, let us introduce the fact that we know where people, perverts who commit pedophile crimes, live in our neighborhood, in our living environment or in the city, can endanger our underage children. I would ask you to support this series of articles. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, one representative per group of Members and the first independent Member has the opportunity to speak within a two-minute time frame. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to live with this. [[For signal:]] Member Tibor Bana asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Jobbik has always considered decisive action against crimes against children to be particularly important. In the previous cycle, I and Adam Mirkóczki, together, presented a bill on the chemical castration of pedophile offenders. [[14.50]] In fact, we can find examples of this in many European countries. We based our proposal on the Polish sample and submitted our motion in the Hungarian legal system. When the vote on inclusion in the series of articles was held here in Parliament, quite a lot of people supported this proposal from the pro-government part, unfortunately the substantive debate in this respect could not begin. We have also made a number of proposals over the last few months to address this issue, in particular with a view to prevention. After all, it is important to know, my fellow Members, and the statistics also clearly indicate that there is a very high number of repeats in this area, with an extremely high rate of relapse. All of our proposals have been made with the aim of achieving meaningful progress in this respect. Of course, we welcome you to the Btk. it has been tightened, but we should go much further, as we firmly believe. That is why we thought that we would present this to Parliament in the form of a proposal for a resolution, because in this way there is sufficient room for manoeuvre for either the pro-government political groups or the opposition groups, and indeed a sound proposal can be made at the end. And what I would like to conclude as a last argument: in this case, there is a need for adequate restrictions on freedoms for those who pose a very serious risk to minors. That is why I ask you to support this series of articles. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the authors whether they wish to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your support. I trust that the fact that he has not been spoken to by either the ruling parties or by other opposition parties is due to the fact that this is the last debate before the votes, and that everyone has a very itchy chair and would very much like to go home, so he does not want to comment on this subject. The other, rather gloomy, explanation that they did not speak to him is that the fate of the victims and the fate of the potential victims, the magnitude of the risk of repeating the crime, do not concern you with the fate of as many victims as possible, and they do not deal with it. But then I would be delighted if the lack of comment meant that it was clear from my explanation that there was a need to discuss this proposal for a resolution. Once again, I ask that we discuss this issue in the interests of our children, and that we include the proposal for a resolution by Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will be taken at the end of today's vote. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue our work by taking decisions on the agenda. I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to monitor the people who have been led by the President. I'm also asking you to check that your card has been properly placed. We're gonna start with a presence check, so I'm gonna need you all to take your seats again. With all due respect, I would like to ask Minister to take his place, because there will be a presence check. Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members to press one of the three possible buttons for the presence check. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. I declare that 175 of us are present, 23 of us are absent, the Parliament has a quorum. Dear Parliament, The Speaker of Parliament proposed that the Parliament ask the negotiating committee to decide on certain reports. The house rules are 85. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on these matters without debate, but separately. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the report by the President of the National Election Committee to the National Election Committee on the activities of local government representatives and mayors in the general election of 2014 B/2254. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 157 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Judicial Committee to report to the National Election Committee on the activities of the National Election Committee in the general elections of 2014 B/2255. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 157 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Judicial Committee to organise and carry out state tasks for the President of the National Election Office concerning the organisation and conduct of state tasks related to the election of representatives and mayors of local governments and representatives of national self-government on 12 October 2014 B/2256. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 159 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Committee on Enterprise Development to ask B/2267 on the state of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2011-2012, on their management conditions, on the measures taken to improve business development and on the results of State aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 157 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2009. Opinion of the Judicial Committee on its own motion H/2210 was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth debate has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2210. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 129 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstentions. A decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2010. Opinion of the Judicial Committee on its own motion H/2212 was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth debate has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2212. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 130 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstentions. [[15.00]] It follows that a decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2011. A separate motion from the Judicial Committee is submitted by H/2116. was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth debate has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/2216 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 130 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstentions. A decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2012. Opinion of the Judicial Committee on its own motion H/2217 was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth debate has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2217. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 130 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstentions It is now time to take a decision on a proposal for a decision adopting a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2013. Opinion of the Judicial Committee on its own motion H/2218 was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth debate has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2218. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 131 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that the decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Curia in 2013 on the provision of a legal unit and on the control of local government standards will be taken. A separate motion by the Judicial Committee H/1808. was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth debate has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/1808. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 160 votes in favour, 7 against and 26 abstentions. It follows that a decision on the adoption of the 2013 report by the President of the National Court of Justice will be taken. A separate motion by the Judicial Committee H/1810. was given to them. Since no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been received and no in-depth debate has been held, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/1810. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 136 votes in favour, 36 against and 20 abstentions. The decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid will now follow. The submission is T/2087. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2087/12. and a summary report by T/2087/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Paragraph 4 of Jobbik is the T/2087/6. Amendment 3 and Amendment 4 proposed by the MSZP to maintain the proposed amendments T/2087/2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/2087/6. In the proposed amendment, György Szilágyi and László Lukács make proposals. The alternative is T/2087/4. Amendment No 1. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2087/6 maintains it. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 136 against and 1 abstention. T/2087/4. In the amendment tabled by Mr Demeter, we are deciding on the motion made by Mrs Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2087/4. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 147 votes against and no abstentions. Now it's T/2087/2. I would like to put to the vote Mr Demeter's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2087/2. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 63 votes in favour, 128 against and no abstentions. Now T/2087/3. I would like to put to the vote the amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2087/3. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 132 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2087/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 165 votes in favour, 6 against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2087/14. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament is the unified proposal... [[There's a lot of noise in the MSZP faction.]] Fellow Members! If you could just keep it down a little bit. [[Again, a lot of noise and interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 187 votes to six, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated the T/2329 on the amendment of certain laws on administrative matters. The Parliament shall discuss bill No 1 in an urgent procedure. The house rules are 60. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee initiated in its proposal for an emergency procedure. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. The house rules are 60. Pursuant to Article 7 of the Act, Parliament shall decide on the order of urgent hearing without debate, with the vote of two thirds of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2329/2. The urgent discussion of the bill is based on the proposal No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the order of urgent hearing without debate, with the vote of two thirds of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2329/2. The urgent discussion of the bill is based on the proposal No 1. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament has ordered the urgent hearing of the bill by 130 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstention. The final vote and the decision on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015. The submission is T/2141. Number 2 is available to all of them on the network. T/2141/68. T/2141/69. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, T/2141/28. I, Jobbik Group, Group T/2141/42. The MSZP Group proposed to maintain the amendments T/2141/15, 26 and 35. We'll vote on these first. [[15.10]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the Group of the LMP Group is set out in Annex T/2141/28 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I, Jobbik Group, Group T/2141/42. The MSZP Group proposed to maintain the amendments T/2141/15, 26 and 35. We'll vote on these first.(15.10) T/2141/28. Proposal for an amendment, Mr András Schiffer's Group Leader's proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this amendment. [[Vote.]] [[Vote.]] Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. T/2141/42. Proposal for an amendment, tabled by Mr President Novák. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 169 against and 2 abstentions. T/2141/15. Amendment 3 to the amendment proposed by Mr József Tobias, Group Leader and others. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. T/2141/26. Proposal for an amendment No 3 on the proposal of Gergely Bárándy and his fellow Members. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 130 against and 21 abstentions. Now T/2141/35. Mr Korózs and others have been proposed. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 131 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/2141/68. The Parliament shall decide separately on point 144 of the summary amendment proposal. That's what we're voting on first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2141/68. Point 144 of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly did not accept point 144 of the summary amendment by 0 votes in favour, 132 against and 60 abstentions. We are now voting on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that paragraphs 9, 11, 76, 188, 189, 193, 194, 203, 212 and 215 of this Regulation, as amended by points 9 of the table of linguistic location in point 225, are amended by points 322 and 327. Its points concerning paragraphs 2 and 3 require a qualified majority decision, and the decision is taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2141/68. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 41 against and 21 abstentions. Now we decide on points requiring a simple majority, except point 144. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2141/68. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 42 against and 22 abstentions. [[It's constant noise.]] It is now the final vote. In doing so, T/2141. We will decide on the text of the legislative proposal No 1 amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of certain parts of this, the final vote shall take place in two instalments. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2141. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the amended bill by 131 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the amended bill. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the amended bill by 126 votes in favour, 66 against and without abstentions. The final vote of the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will now follow. The submission was made in T/1794. has been received by my fellow Members. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/1794/561. It sent a single proposal to the Budgetary Council. Opinion of the Council on the grant of preliminary consent T/1794/562. Number 2 is available for all on the network. The Rules of the House 36. I now give the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, who will speak here on the platform. Attention, fellow Members. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-145	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker, Minister of National Economy. Before I add a few brief additional comments to the opinion of the Budgetary Council on the final vote, let me say that the Council as a whole has kept an eye on the functioning of the economy, public finances, the current and foreseeable processes of budgetary management, and has made its views and made its comments. We hope that the work of the Council, within the limits of its possibilities, can help to ensure that Parliament is ahead of the adoption of the 2015 Finance Act on the appropriate 2014 base. I would also like to start by saying that, according to the Council, the results of the consolidation measures so far have contributed to the more favourable professional conditions of budgetary planning compared to previous years. At the same time, the Council carried out its advisory tasks in a conservative way. Most of our work relates to the opinion of the draft budget bill and, of course, of the interim amendment to the budget law and the assessment of the state of implementation of the budget at mid-month. There is no doubt, however, that the establishment and publication of the budgetary Council position before the final vote on the draft budget bill is of crucial importance, as a guarantee of public law. This is what we have now done with our consent, to which I am now adding some summaries and additional comments, based on the mandate and proposal of the Council. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the mandate of the Fiscal Council under the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act, it examined whether the final vote version of the Budget Bill met the requirement of the sovereign debt rule. [[15.20]] It concluded that the government debt expressed as a percentage of GDP had fallen. On this basis, Hungary's single draft central budget bill for 2015 can be put to a final vote according to the Fiscal Council. Dear Parliament, Please allow me, in addition to giving our contribution, to comment on the draft budget law, which is reserved and justified, to make some further helpful comments. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill does not contain any changes to the 2015 debt indicator compared to the bill, i.e. its planned value by the end of next year is 75.4 per cent; the expected figure by 31 December 2014 is also unchanged, i.e. 76.3 per cent. I must stress that both deficit and GDP data have been determined in the calculation of sovereign debt indicators in accordance with the requirements of the relevant EU legislation in force from 1 September of this year, which vary from the previous one, on the basis of the so-called ESA 2010 accounting system. According to the Stability Act, the debt amounts were calculated at the same rate for both years as set out in the 2015 Budget Bill. The bill does not contain any new macroeconomic projections, and the Council therefore examined how the economic developments and forecasts that have become known since the submission of the bill have affected the uncertainties and risks associated with the original government projections. The Council concluded that the expected GDP for 2014 and planned for 2015 was based on a realistic economic projections, that the government debt under the Stability Act was expected by the end of 2014 and planned for 31 December 2015 was in line with both the economic and the expected budgetary processes for 2014 and the planned for 2015. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Council continued to follow the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget bill, and considered it positive that the revenue and expenditure changes affecting more than 24 percent of the appropriation, by means of the adopted 264-point amendment, barely affected the cash flow deficit. However, the Council continues to maintain that there is a lack of justification for each revenue allocation and that the risks indicated in the draft budget bill were maintained in October. In particular, this is the case for other sales and exploitation revenues related to State wealth. There is a risk that the expenditure of the Multi-Chapter Investment Fund linked to revenue may be difficult to stop during the year in the event of a loss of revenue. Experience with investments shows that this is highly likely. The Council therefore considers it still necessary for new developments from the central budget to take place at the rate that revenue flows into this title. As a partial source of additional expenditure, the National Defence Fund split the Council's estimate from HUF 40 billion to HUF 60 billion on the basis of its opinion on the draft budget bill. The budget of HUF 30 billion can handle smaller risks than originally planned. In addition to the appropriations that have become more realistic through these amendments, we consider the situation to be risky and therefore the Council considers that the role of the National Defence Fund has been played by the requirement for prudent management of consolidation in previous years, and it would therefore be more appropriate to establish a single risk management system. This would mean the inclusion of a reserve of HUF 100 billion earmarked for extraordinary government measures in risk management, the unification of the two reserves and the establishment of a strict rule for use. A certain percentage of the reserve appropriations to be consolidated in the implementation of the budget are proposed not to be used until 30 September 2015 and thereafter only if the 2015 economic and budgetary processes do not jeopardise the achievement of the deficit target. In preparation for a contributing decision by the Fiscal Council, it addressed the extension of the ownership of the State in certain sectors such as financial institutions and energy. It proposes that these transactions should not increase the deficit and debt of the government sector in the short or longer term. Dear Parliament, Finally, the Council considers it necessary to indicate the risk that GDP or the deficit in public finances could be worse than expected, than our best hope. In addition to the otherwise favourable macroeconomic and public finances processes, growth expectations can be dampened by the only moderate stagnation of the European Union's economic performance and even by the fact that there is no risk of a relapse, by the extent of the deflation processes and by the spill-over of the effects of geopolitical tensions, by the uncertainty of the oil market and by the impact of the sanctions imposed by the European Union against Russia. However, in order to address these challenges and to ensure the durability of economic growth, the Council will no longer focus its attention on the need to maintain sound and disciplined fiscal management in order to maintain a tighter deficit target than set out in the Public Finance Act and to enforce the sovereign debt rule. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention, for the opportunity to speak and allow me to wish you a pleasant holiday and a new year of joy for all of us. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-146	Thank you very much, Mr President, and on behalf of all of us, I thank you for your good wishes and you and your family for your good wishes. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take a seat, because we are continuing our work with decisions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/1794/561 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 A single proposal. [[Szabó Timea in the box behind the benches of the MSZP, with the help of those who are there, raises a molino with the logo of the PM and the following text:.The country can't stand it anymore! You're out of your mind!]] Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal 131 yeses, 62 votes not, without abstention. I'll inform Congresswoman Timea Szabó - I'll see who's still there - that you violated Parliamentary Law 38/A by posting and maintaining this banner. Prescribed for use in combination with ribavirin. Accordingly, I will immediately inform the House Committee of this insult. The relevant decision shall be taken by the House Committee. Now I ask the office's staff to remove the posted banner, which is contrary to the legislation, the house rules, the parliamentary law. [[It's happening.]] We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws necessary for the integrated supply of tobacco retail trade. The submission is made in T/2081. The Parliament's IT network was accessible to all of them. T/2081/7. T/2081/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.30]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. As no request for a proposal to maintain an amendment has been received, we are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the factions have not submitted separate voting requests. In view of the fact that point 3 of the summarised amendment requires a qualified majority decision, the decision will be taken in two instalments. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2081/7. Point 3 of the summary amendment. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2081/7. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/2081/9. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2081/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the part of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 130 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the single proposal by 127 votes in favour, 65 against and without abstention. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to the public media service and the media market. The submission is T/2189. Number 1 was available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2189/27 and T/2189/28. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments T/2189/6, 7 and 13 and the MSZP Group of amendments T/2189/18, 19 and 20. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/2189/6. Proposal for an amendment, tabled by Mr President Novák. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 133 against and 32 abstentions. T/2189/7. The rapporteur withdrew his proposal to maintain the amendment. Now T/2189/13. It follows the decision to make an amendment, which is also the proposal of Mr President Novak. A qualified majority is still needed to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 140 against and 27 abstentions. Now T/2189/18. I would like to put to the vote the amendment tabled by Mr Zoltán Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 133 votes against and no abstentions. T/2189/19. The amendment tabled by Mr Zoltán Lukács is also proposed. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 132 votes against and no abstentions. T/2189/20. The amendment was also tabled by Mr Zoltán Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Since the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, none, we are now deciding on the summarised amendment proposal. In view of the fact that points 1 to 35 of this Decision and points 39 and 40 thereof require a qualified majority decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2189/27. Points requiring a qualified majority of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has voted in favour of a qualified majority on the points of the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: I don't have it!]] He didn't take it against 65, he didn't take it without a stay. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2189/27. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstention. [[Dr. András Aradski reporting. Ancestors of Novak: He wants to resign!]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Just a moment, please. On behalf of the government, András Aradszki! [[Novák Előd: Let's hear the resignation!]]
u2014-12-15-147	In the vote two years ago, I noticed that my computer didn't work out. [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties. Forebod Novak: Defiance in the ranks of the governing parties! Noise and intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: This can be easily checked! What are you bickering about?]]
u2014-12-15-148	I will respectfully ask you to attach this to the record in the form of a statement. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Closed voting! It's a closed vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Every Member has the right to make a statement about it - I have already closed it, but he has the right to make a statement about it. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] - whether you missed a vote or didn't vote. [[Forebod Novak: It's called conscience!]] That's the rule of the house. It is good to acknowledge this, especially those who have been sitting here in Parliament for several years or decades. [[Moraj from the opposition parties.]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/2189/30. The single proposal contains fundamentality provisions. I would respectfully ask for a proposal before the final vote. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás turning to János Lázár: Ask for a final vote. The government has to ask.]] How many minutes does the faction want? [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Minister John Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-15-149	Dear Parliament, Mr President, On behalf of the government, I would like to ask for the final vote. I would like to ask for the final vote on the law.
u2014-12-15-150	Thank you very much. So the final vote will take place. Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since Parliament has not voted in favour of the parts concerning the fundamentality, we can now only decide on the parts of T/2189 that require a simple majority. .......................................................................................................................................... [[Noise.]] [[15.40]] I'll ask the Minister if he thinks so. [[János Lázár and Dr. Répássy Robert agree.]] I respectfully ask Minister János Lázár. [[John Lazarus: Yes.]] Like this? Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the single proposal... [[For signal:]] Congressman Tuzson Bence asked for the floor in order of business. I'll need the order of business in a minute, then the justification. Here you go, Congressman. [[Foreman Novak: This has to be explained on a TV show!]]
u2014-12-15-151	I apologise, as rapporteur, for the fact that we are also asking for the final vote on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Noise. István Apáti: This is not a TV show!]]
u2014-12-15-152	Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament, since it has been spoken in order of business, the House Rules allow it to be spoken in order of business in two minutes per faction. Mr. András Schiffer has asked for the floor.
u2014-12-15-153	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, After a single bill was presented to the House, this was discussed by the Legislative Committee, this bill formed a unified whole with two-thirds and so-called plain majority. If the final vote is to be taken in such a way that the House votes only on the parts that require a simple majority, this raises the question of serious coherence problems in the machinery, since we do not know whether the original legislative intention will be as it was before the Legislative Committee. I therefore believe that, before such a final vote, it must also be examined that, after the original motion has been cut in half on this basis, there must be no serious conflict of coherence in the Hungarian legal order, and I therefore propose, Mr President, that the entire final vote be postponed by the House on this bill. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the benches of opposition parties. Intercoms: That's right!]]
u2014-12-15-154	Thank you very much. I am speaking to Mr Gergely Bárándy of the MSZP Group.
u2014-12-15-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In agreement with what Mr Schiffer said, Mr Group Leader, I agree with and agree with these ideas, namely that we have seen many times before, Honourable Parliament, that we have had to bring certain laws back to Parliament a hundred times because they were adopted in a inconsistent manner because they were wrongly accepted because of the fact that conflicting laws were finally voted on. That some of this bill has not been adopted by the Parliament, which, as a matter of fact, will result in this consistency. That is why, fellow Members, it would be justified to at least take a break in Parliament and discuss what the fate of this proposal could be in the next period. However, the fact that this House is now having a final vote on it will basically mean that we will be adopting a wrong, wrong law, which we cannot agree with. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Vice-President Gulyás Gergely of the Fidesz Group asked for the floor.
u2014-12-15-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not want to disturb the opposition's joy that once, in a vote, one vote was missing to two-thirds, but this means nothing more than voting on the original proposal, according to the clear provisions of the house rules. After the original proposal was also good, the rapporteur also said as an additional information that he wanted the final vote, and a two-thirds vote on the original proposal is now taking place. The summation amendment of the Legislative Committee was not accepted by the Parliament, so we are voting on the original proposal according to the clear provisions of the House Rule. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-15-158	Thank you very much. From the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novak is next.
u2014-12-15-159	Dear Parliament, We don't know if there was a difference of conscience in the ranks of the governing parties or if there was a mistake in the mameluk machine. [[There's a lot of noise, there's an uproar in the benches of the governing parties.]] But one thing is certain. Now you have the opportunity to finally - if you have already avoided legislative rules and social debate in the case of such a salad law and have actually brought such a comprehensive proposal here to the House as an independent motion, now the opportunity has been opened for the Parliament to renegotiate this proposal. What is unacceptable is that you now say to your own amendments that they are not necessary for the adoption of this proposal, without it, is good. Let me quote that among these, for example, there is a proposal which I myself have tabled - although it has been swept off, but the same has been repeated by the governing parties and the government - which has proposed, among other things, an amendment not to regulate a road traffic rule in the media law. It is unacceptable that they want to regulate traffic regulations in a senseless, accident- and public-dangerous media law, Act I of 1988 on the rules of road transport. But this is just one of those amendments, and there are a number of them that you have supported very rightly, even if it is not one of the Jobbik's proposals, but, for example, taking them as their own, so I am asking you not to do this kind of work, so that the media law should not be brought back to Parliament. We have seen how much has been left out of this law to crush the requirement for balanced information. The legislation you have in this law, I think, is a very big mistake, by the way, that you have not tried to solve and finally enforce it, so there are a lot of omissions so far, but now, in fact, you would say about your own proposal, about your previous proposals, which you have voted on so far, that they are not necessary. Don't insult the dignity of the Parliament so much that they can vote back and forth at this level and the opposite. I mean, your position is so untraceable. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, I think that if you no longer received a majority of your... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Proposal for a Regulation [[Interviews from the benches of Fidesz: Sit down!]] Then don't support this. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-160	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, As the section of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority was not accepted by the Parliament, we must decide on the legislative proposal that has been amended with the parts adopted. Subject to the provisions requiring a qualified majority, this will also take place in two instalments. I ask you accordingly whether you will accept the qualified majority part of the legislative proposal that has been amended with the agreed parts of the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the amended bill by 132 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstention. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew, damn it! It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Please calm down. Everything's in place. The president's sitting here, so he's sitting quietly, so just take it easy, and we'll get on with it. I ask you whether you will accept the simple majority of the legislative proposal that has been amended with the agreed parts of the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the amended bill by 131 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstention. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the draft law relating to the establishment of a central register and amending certain administrative laws. The submission was made in T/1709. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The legislative committee's proposal for amendment before the final vote T/1709/15. and T/1709/16 before the final vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1709/15. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1709/15. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 136 votes in favour, 37 against and 22 abstentions. [[15.50]] It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on a single proposal, which has just been amended. The single proposal is 52. § 2 of the Act sets out the scope of the main provisions, and the final vote shall be taken into account in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T/1709/12. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Now, please vote two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the part of the amended single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 27 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the amended single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts them. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the part of the amended single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 27 abstentions. Next up is the 1995 CXXV on National Security Services. and the final vote on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws in the context of national security control. The submission is T/2077. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2077/30. T/2077/31. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/2077/25 of the LMP, the MSZP is T/2077/4. Amendment Nos 1 and 11 were proposed to continue. We'll vote on these first. T/2077/25. Amendment No 3 proposed by Bernadett Szél and András Schiffer. A qualified majority is required to maintain the motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 34 votes to 134, with 27 votes in favour. T/2077/4. Amendment No. 1 The proposal of Tamás Harangozó and Zsolt Molnár. A qualified majority is required to maintain the motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. T/2077/11. Motion by Tamás Harangozó and Zsolt Molnár. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 151 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not kept up the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that points 1 to 8 of this Decision and point 10 thereof require a qualified majority decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2077/30. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 185 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2077/30. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 186 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/2077/32. Single proposal No 56. § 2 of the Act contains a provision of fundamentality, on the basis of which the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2077/32. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the part of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 179 votes in favour, 7 against and 9 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the single proposal by 178 votes in favour, 5 against and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1993 III on social management and social benefits. Act XXXI of 1997 on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration the final vote on the Act I of 2004 on Sport and the bill amending certain related laws. The submission is T/2089. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, prior to the final vote, the MSZP Group called for amendments T/2089/7, 9 and 15 and the LMP Group for the T/2089/2, and Jobbik Group for the T/2089/16, 17 and 18. T/2089/7. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and his fellow Members proposed the amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. T/2089.9. Amendment 3 - Opinion of Mr Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. T/2089/15. Proposal for an amendment, tabled by Gergely Bárándy. Some of these points also amend the provision requiring a qualified majority, so we must vote on this in two instalments. At the same time, the maintenance of the parts requiring a simple majority is only decided if the points requiring a qualified majority are maintained by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the points of the amendment requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not maintain the points requiring a qualified majority of the amendment by 69 votes in favour, 126 votes against and no abstentions. After that, we do not have to vote on the simple majority. Dear Parliament, T/2089/2. Amendment No. 1 proposal by Bernadett Szél and István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. T/2089/16. Amendment 3 - Proposal for amendment Novák, President and fellow Members. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll hold up the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 136 against and 8 abstentions. T/2089/17. The amendment tabled by Mr Novak and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 141 against and 32 abstentions. Now T/2089/18. It follows that the decision to make an amendment to the regulation should be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 135 against and 2 abstentions. [[16.00]] Since no amendment has been proposed and the Legislative Committee has not tabled a summary amendment, we will decide on the legislative proposal in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the 104th bill. § 2 of the Act contains the scope of the cardinal and the provisions of the House Rules, the adoption of which requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the bill will be adopted in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2089. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the bill by 130 votes in favour, 37 against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the bill. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the simple majority of the bill by 130 votes in favour, 37 against and 28 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law amending certain financial instruments concerning deposit guarantee and the financial intermediary system. The submission was made in T/1996. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/1996/7, and T/1996/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/1996/2, the MSZP is the T/1996/2. Amendment Nos 1 and 3 were proposed to continue. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/1996/2. István Józsa and his fellow Members' motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. T/1996/3. István Józsa and his fellow Members also proposed amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. The MSZP asked for a separate vote on point 3 of this. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1996/7. Point 3 of the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 3 of the summary amendment by 191 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. We are now voting on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of point 8 requires a qualified majority, so we will decide on this separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1996/7. Point 8 of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted point 8 of the summary amendment, which requires a qualified majority, by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 27 abstentions. We are now voting on points requiring a simple majority in the summary amendment, with the exception of point 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1996/7. The simple majority of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/1996/9. Single proposal No 140 § 2 of the Act contains the fundamental provisions, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1996/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the part of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 27 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 37 against and 27 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote to make a summary amendment to the bill on the status of soldiers and the amendment of certain laws relating to war care. The submission is T/2084. Number 2 is available to all of them on the network. T/2084/14. T/2084/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/2084/8. and 9, the Jobbik Group proposed to maintain the T/2084/2, 3 and 10 and the MSZP Group's proposed amendments T/2084/4, 5 and 6. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/2084/8. Proposal for an amendment, tabled by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 15 votes in favour, 146 against and 31 abstentions. T/2084.9. The amendment was also tabled by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 11 votes in favour, 153 against and 31 abstentions. T/2084-2. and the related amendment No 3 is the motion of our fellow Members Gábor Staudt and Gergely Kulcsár. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 132 against and 11 abstentions. Now it's T/2084/10. Mr Kulcsár's motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 22 votes in favour, 166 against and 5 abstentions. T/2084.4. Motion by Márta Demeter and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. [[16.10]] Now it's T/2084/5. Mr Demeter and Mr Harangozó also proposed an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 152 against and 1 abstention. T/2084/6. The proposal was also proposed by Márta Demeter and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not kept up the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the opinion of the Legislative Committee that the adoption of point 1 of the proposal requires a qualified majority decision, the decision will be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2084/14. Point 1 of the summary amendment. Please vote two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 187 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2084/14. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 187 votes in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/2084/16. Single proposal No 43. § 2 of the Act contains a provision of fundamentality. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2084/16. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority part of the single proposal by 153 votes in favour, 5 against and 37 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the simple majority of the single proposal by 152 votes in favour, 6 against and 35 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that we have already had these debates this morning. I ask you, will Erzsébet Schmuck and András Schiffer be included in a series of subjects for our fellow Members of the LMP CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. T/1276 amending Act T/1276 on the need to keep central bank operations within reasonable limits. of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 67 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by the representatives of Bernadett Szél and András Schiffer on the necessary amendment of certain laws to facilitate the flexible work of parents with small children, T/2022. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 64 votes in favour, 125 against and 2 abstentions. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether you will be included in a series of questions by Members Gábor Vona and György Szilágyi on the compulsory acquisition of wealth by Members of Parliament, members of the Government and the State Secretarys T/1821. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 122 against and 8 abstentions. I ask you whether you will consider the measures required by our right-wing fellow Members, Sebestyén Vágó, Ádám Mirkóczki and Tibor Bana, to combat sexual crimes committed to people under 18 years of age. H/1409. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I'm gonna make a decision. [[Forebod Novak: Punish the pedophiles?]] : Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 25 votes in favour, 127 against and 36 abstentions. Thank you all for your cooperation. We have reached the end of our decision-making process. I'm ordering a 60-minute recess before continuing our work. Thank you very much. [[Pause: 16.16-17.17President: Lezszak SándorMessenger: László Földi and Erzsébet Schmuck]]
u2014-12-15-161	I salute my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The Commission's report on the villages of loyalty is now under discussion. Independent motion of MEPs Csaba Hende, Péter Ágh and Alpár Gyopáros Fidesz T/2188. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Commission report on the detailed discussion of the Committee for National Inclusion as a designated committee T/2188/4. was given to them. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of a Commission amendment closing the detailed debate, the Legislative Committee has not discussed the proposal. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Gyopáros Alpár: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Maybe in the end, if you wish, you can tell me your thoughts. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The speeches by the representatives will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which will be announced in the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Member who has applied in advance in writing, but the Member is not present, as I see it. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[For signal:]] He won't say anything. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. The Commission's reports on the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms and the debate on the summary amendment will now follow. Antal Rogán, István Németh Szilárd and László Vécsey, members of the Fidesz Group, have a separate motion H/2117. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee for National Inclusion as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate H/217/9. and the report by H/217/10. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee H/217/12. and the summary report is H/217/13. Available on the website. The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I will ask if one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion later. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee. The committee's rapporteur is Mónika Dunai, who is not present. We're moving on. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[Németh Szilárd István: No.]] The author is present and indicates that he is not. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2014-12-15-162	[[Without sound:]] Mr President, Dear House,
u2014-12-15-163	Please wait for the microphone to be turned on. State Secretary Tamás Vargha wishes to speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-15-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The government supports the proposal.
u2014-12-15-165	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the National Assembly Committee if you'd like to present a rapporteur. [[There's no candidate.]] No signal. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. There is only one pre-notified speaker. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss of MSZP. The time frame is 10 minutes.
u2014-12-15-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I believe that the debate on this bill has been properly carried out both in committee and in the House. I must also say on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party that we support this proposal. I commend the idea of István Jelenits, a piarist father, who said in one place that we should not erect statues that should be removed within 20 years. This may also be the motto of national politics. For this reason, the MSZP offers all initiatives - we believe that this proposal is also in this circle - that create sculptures, initiatives that we can take proudly even in a thousand years' time. As an individual Member of Parliament, I can also support the initiatives of my fellow Member to appreciate the historical role of their constituency, and we therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[17.20]]
u2014-12-15-167	Thank you, Congressman. Fidesz has a 17-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2014-12-15-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the opinion of the Legislative Committee. At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/2117 on the Day of the Hungarian Flag and Crest. A proposal for a decision. The aim of the proposal is to promote knowledge of Hungarian history, the Hungarian flag and national symbols to strengthen national consciousness, since the Hungarian flag and the coat of arms are among the most important symbols of national consciousness. The mission of the day of the Hungarian flag is to arouse patriotic emotions, to develop patriotic behaviour. The flag is the united force of the nation, which connects the young Hungarians and the elderly, the entire Hungarian society. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the proposed amendment of the Committee on National Inclusion, which was supported by our committee with 20 yeses, 2 nos and 1 abstentions, with the exception of points containing technical amendments 1 and 3. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 20 yes and 3 abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-169	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I'm gonna ask or I'm not gonna ask, because I can see the name of the candidate. I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, betterman.
u2014-12-15-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, that the MSZP obviously has a lot to compensate for in national cases. It can therefore unconditionally support any proposal on national matters or national symbols. Unfortunately, we can't be so forgiving, not in this case at all. Of course, I assume that I do not need to stress in particular to the House and to the public that we can agree, in principle, with the intention and purpose of the proposal itself, of course, that it is important for Jobbik that our national symbols in general, not only the crest and the flag, but also our national symbols, occupy a worthy place in our national public consciousness, our common Hungarian national identity. It is important for us to protect our national symbols. That is why Jobbik recently tabled an amendment to the Criminal Code that would clarify the protection of the Holy Crown. Because that kind of clowning, but it wasn't a clown, it was a lot more than that, the kind of shame that happened on a commercial channel recently about the Holy Crown, it's definitely a question we shouldn't go to. And unfortunately, it seems that our current applicable laws will result in this. I mean, we've had a case like this before, we've filed a case like this, we've had a prosecutor's request, which has resulted in the result and the point is that the dignity of the Holy Crown itself has not been damaged, because it's here, in the National Assembly. Of course, it's not that, it's the symbol itself, the representation of the crown. That is why we have initiated an amendment to the Criminal Code in this regard. I would like and recommend to my fellow Members, from any of the factions, that they join this. We are open and we are waiting for opinions on this. So, of course, these questions are important to us. The politicalization of the last four or almost five years here in Parliament by Jobbik, I think it has made it beyond doubt that in national matters, of course, Jobbik can be expected constructively. At the same time, the constructive opposition should sometimes be accompanied by some constructive pro-governmentism, although my pro-government colleagues have not been very pro-government lately. Unfortunately, the same goes for the crest and the flag bill. And then let me split our criticisms into two parts. What concerns principles is the idea-like, non-conceptual, symbolic policy that you have been pursuing over the past five years and, unfortunately, you are continuing to do so, and you are reciting it in this proposal. The non-national political consensus, my honourable pro-government colleagues, is that you will come up with something, and if the opposition does not assist unconditionally and under all circumstances, it must be pointed out to the opposition to break up the national political unity, the national political consensus. We believe that our national symbols, the Hungarian coat of arms and the Hungarian flag are common symbols on which it is absolutely necessary and important that we can strive for a consensus among ourselves, that laws, regulations can be made on these issues that every parliamentary representative, every faction, can feel unconditionally, or at least try to create the possibility of this reflection. You, in accordance with your good habits, have not done so again, and we have met the proposal in the presentation of two Fidesz Members. Not to mention the fact that no opposition amendments were adopted, no single amendment was adopted. Even such, by the way, I think that his rejection is quite difficult to justify - unless it was out of defiance, as it was - so they did not support any amendments when we asked in the text that when we commemorate those who gave their lives for the Hungarian country, there instead of the word "sacrificed" be added. One word of our amendments would have made this proposal more pathetic. You even said no out of gut. [[17 .30]] I would not like to talk about it again, we have done this much in the general debate, and I myself in my speech to the lead speaker and my fellow Members, how unworthy this whole debate has been, how badly prepared it has been. Congressman Németh, who held his exposé, announced about the pulpit that the law, which consists of two or three paragraphs, would be substantially rewritten because they forgot in the great rush that 23 March was already occupied, as it is the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship. It is particularly unpleasant that Mr Németh, meanwhile, is the president of the Hungarian-Polish IPU. This also indicates that this proposal should have been prepared much more. If it were important for you to be able to reach some consensus in our national affairs or in relation to our national symbols, or in general in symbol politics or in national politics, then you would not have been able to do so from the point of view of the whole issue. And we should not have seen this proposal again, as usual, as well as all the other laws that they bring to Parliament, they want to push it through by force, relying on two thirds of them, and then point out to the opposition that because of them there is no national political unity. As far as its content is concerned, a number of proposals have been made. First you brought a date here, that date was overwritten, instead of this date, the socialists suggested something else. Nevertheless, they will support this proposal. This also indicates that there is a lack of consensus on this proposal; this is, of course, what it envisages in relation to any similar proposal that could not be agreed on, largely because of you, that these laws are now exposed to the threat of political change management. On these issues, I think we would do the right thing if we tried to reach consensus and reach agreement in any way. That's not even the least of it for you. Let me add one more thing: as part of our national cultural heritage, the proposal talks about the crest and the flag. We can't accept that. It is not our national cultural heritage, but it is part of our everyday lives, and it is an integral part of our national identity, both the coat of arms and the flag. Our amendment in this regard was not accepted either. Just as they did not accept our proposals, nor did they submit anything like this, so that the law would make any provision as to what would follow from the respect of the flag, the coat of arms, how it should appear in public speaking, the media, school events, programs. In all similar proposals, in law, such points were in relation to the Memorial Days - not here. All we've learned in hindsight is that they want to give this topic to Jenő Szász's money-sucking fake institution, and he will, the National Strategy Research Institute will, and I don't understand what this has to do with research, organize crest and flag events across borders, if any. Therefore, due to the lack of preparation, the lack of full compromise and the lack of agreement on its content, Jobbik will not vote on this issue, so we will not press a button at this vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-171	Thank you, Congressman Savay. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-12-15-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to go along with it as my fellow Member did, but then let's really look at the facts. It is not that the Socialist Party would support this proposal without debate or even give the Government a blank cheque, if appropriate. In fact, while we would have preferred that this proposal should have been a multi-party joint proposal covering all groups, this request was not supported very much by the rapporteur. But we thought that, since it is already here, this proposal should be discussed in its content. It is certain that, by joining my fellow Member, Mr Szávay, the MSZP and myself would be desirable if anyone made proposals on national policy issues relating to our national symbols, or requiring a total national consensus, in order to achieve this consensus. I do not understand why, for example, in the Commission's debate, the drafters did not support the proposals, of which not one of which would actually have meant only opening up the proposal and not changing it. I therefore think that there really is a place for criticisms that were about the fact that the rapporteur himself could have been more flexible. There were proposals which the rapporteur did not, but were supported by the committee. This also shows, however, that there is a right to ask for flexibility here by all those who are asking for it. The Hungarian Socialist Party had two main problems with the presentation. One of them is that the rapporteur himself, by not opening up the initiative enough, made it almost impossible for the other parties to join it. We asked the rapporteur to give us the opportunity to do so, for example, if he had withdrawn the proposal and given us the opportunity for the other factions to participate in it, it would have been a nice gesture. They didn't practice that against us. The other question is the day of the flag and the coat of arms. Originally, the proposal was on 23 March, the MSZP proposed 15 March, for two reasons. On the one hand, the 20th of March 23rd. He's been hearing through the century, which we didn't think was desirable. On the other hand, the 15th of March is one of the greatest celebrations of our nation, and we remember our revolution and our struggle for freedom at this time, and remembering the symbols of our nation would be a part of this celebration. Compared to this, the amendment came in on 16 March. Although the MSZP maintains its amendment proposal for 15 March, we still believe that since we are talking about similar things on the subject, since 16 March is obviously part of this kind of memory policy and this kind of historical memory, we can basically accept the proposal thus produced. It is not, therefore, that we supported this proposal without criticism. We also had proposals, and we also maintain them. The other issue is, of course, that in the event that 23 March has changed to 16 March and the proposal changes in such a way that it can be supported by the MSZP, we naturally support this. Let me remember that the colors of the Hungarian flag symbolize strength, loyalty and hope. Strong Hungary is if a responsible government is working to prevent four million people from being below the minimum living; that is when there is strength. Loyalty is when the government is responsible, and there is hope when the country gives hope to its citizens, and it is not necessary to seek prosperity abroad, but it can also be within Hungary. I wish to the House that the MSZP would also want the colours of the Hungarian flag to symbolize not only this power, loyalty and hope, but would also mean that government politics would upload these symbols with content. I wish this proposal to be part of it. I have a scepticism to make sure that happens, but it won't depend on us. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-15-173	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask whether one of the authors wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[István Szilárd Németh says no.]] They're signaling no. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the opening of the shops and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. Semjén Zsolt, Péter Harrach, János Latorcai, Bence Rétvári, József Attila Móring, András Aradszki, Miklós Soltesz, Rózsa Hoffmann, Imre Vejkey, István Simicskó, György Rubovszky, Miklós Seszták, János Hargitai, Mátyás Firtl, László Földi and László Szászfalvi's independent motion by KDNP representatives T/1914. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/1914/15. and T/1914/16. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1914/19. and the summary report is T/1914/20. Available on the website. [[17.40]] Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-174	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/1914 at its meeting on 11 December 2014. The Commission presented a bill on the opening-up of shops, which included 20 amendments and a summary report with 4 sexes and 2 abstentions. The summary report shall include, on the one hand, the proposal for an amendment to the Economic Committee, as corrected by the Legislative Committee, and, on the other hand, the proposal of the Legislative Committee. In the general debate on the bill, arguments have already been made in relation to the whole of the motion concerning the pro-government and the opposition side. Here I would just like to highlight some of the amendments. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the aim of the bill is to ensure that as a general rule as few workers as possible work on Sundays in Hungary as possible in trade. It is not appropriate to make exceptions to tobacco stores for this main objective, in particular for the protection of workers, but also for health policy purposes. Thus, according to the change, workers in national tobacco shops can also relax on Sundays. An important amendment, compared to the original bill, is that a business whose sales space does not exceed 200 sq m may also be open during the general closure period if, during the general closure period, only the individual entrepreneur, member of an individual company engaged in commercial activities in the business or a member of a natural person having at least one fifth ownership in a company or the close relative listed above pursues the commercial activity. Finally, I would like to mention the change in the title of the bill, which will be given the title of the bill prohibiting work in the commercial sector on Sunday if the Parliament also accepts the amendment. I call for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-15-175	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform the Parliament that Congressman Zoltán Lukács, a member of the Legislative Committee, is meeting on another committee, so if there is someone from the Legislative Committee who is sitting here and wants to give a minority opinion [[Dr. Imre Vas: Meeting!]] I'll give you the opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, leader of the group.
u2014-12-15-176	Mr President, Dear House, We have said several times that the KDNP's goal with this bill was to ensure that families spent time together on the general day of rest when children are at home, parents can also be at home. We believe that what has been said here today is that not only in trade, but preferably in all sectors, parents should be able to be with the children, the family should be together, and social relations should be fostered. The original KDNP proposal, which was submitted four years ago, contained this. This was now possible, i.e. the ban on trade, but we hope that it will be possible to extend it later. I believe that the amendments that have been made in time have improved this bill, even its title, because it is about banning Sunday work, not keeping shops closed. But as we have just said, the 200-square-square-meter border, the exception to the exception of the tramps - that is, they cannot be open - and the one-fifth part property serves not only to allow families with partial ownership to run their shops on Sunday. Of course, there are many other exceptions, since satisfying a significant social need is an important objective of the draft law. If the general rule is to be implemented, then obviously plants requiring continuous work are also excluded. I believe that it is not only the intention, but also the implementation that serves the interests of Hungarian society as a whole. I'm pretty sure there were some counter-opinions. A significant part of these was the campaign of multinational companies that worked with great money and energy against the bill. I think that the moods are slowly calming down, and when the law is passed, everyone will see that this will be an effective law serving the needs of all society. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-15-177	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have 7 minutes and 15 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. I give the floor to Secretary of State Béla Glattfelder in a ten-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendments adopted by the Preparatory Commission and the Economic Committee have already been mentioned before me. These really make the law more readable, even changing its title accordingly. They make it more clear that opening hours will be possible during the Advent period and also make it clear that shop owners can keep their shops open on Sunday under specified conditions whose influence extends to one fifth of their ownership in that store. There are similar regulations in several Member States in the European Union. These regulations do not conflict with the legal provisions of the European Union. This interpretation has already been stated and confirmed by the European Court of Justice on several occasions. The government considers that the bill will not make people buy less, and therefore tax revenues will not be reduced, nor will it be expected that the adoption of the bill will have excessive employment consequences, since people will buy as much as they did before, so obviously there will be no fewer people working in trade. We will want to regulate important issues for tourism in a government regulation. In other words, there will be a government decree that will take far-reaching aspects of tourism into account. In view of all this, the government supports the adoption of the bill.
u2014-12-15-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance, first to Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz.
u2014-12-15-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have discussed in the previous debate the question that the proposal submitted clearly requires at some point to make it more realistic by the Fidesz fraction and more applicable to market conditions, as a result of which we can take over the amendments tabled and negotiated by the Legislative Committee here. [[17.50]] The main points of this were said by the Secretary of State and the Head of the Group. I would like to point out, perhaps, that the tobacco shops have been excluded from the scope of the law, because there was no such reason, although there is an international example that tobacco shops are exempt from Sunday work abroad, there is no reason to do so in Hungary, and therefore they will be subject to the same rules as other retail units. Perhaps the point of the amendment is that we have made clear what areas of trade should be exempted. These include petrol stations, pharmacies, catering, tourism, cultural activities and additional activities of the spa service, where this regulation cannot live. As has been said, we have clarified, compared to the previous proposal, that from the five extra Sundays, i.e. when the shops may be open, four should fall into the advent period, taking into account Hungarian traditions. Furthermore, the proposal clarified that, in relation to family businesses, it set a rate of 20%, in line with reality, of which a person or members of the family can ensure the opening hours on Sunday, and perhaps even an important part, that the territory of the world heritage was clearly excluded from the scope of the law, taking into account tourism aspects. In view of all of this, given that the ultimate goal must be that no one can be worked on Sunday sooner or later, we hope that the proposed proposal for adoption can indeed bring about a compromise in which workers and employers can find their calculation. We also believe that, by the way, this regulation will have no or no significant impact on employment or traffic. Perhaps it is part of the proposal tabled that we are under preparation for our promise, and we hope that we can present before tomorrow's vote an amendment to the Labour Code, an amendment to the Labour Code, which would mean that those who work here on Sunday due to exceptions will be raised to 100 percent of the current 50 percent wage supplement, and that we can ensure that they can be worked on a maximum of two Sundays. These are, by the way, amendments to the Labour Code, which are in line with previous bad proposals. With this special amendment of the law, we believe that the bill can be balanced. Basically, this law will come into force from March, so the adoption of the Labour Code will also be able to catch up with the real entry into force of the law. Taking these into account, we can support the faction and ask everyone to support the proposal in the interests of Hungarian workers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-181	Thank you, Congressman Sathmary. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, MSZP.
u2014-12-15-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal is false to refer to working people when they are not allowed to open on Sunday, because the primary problem of workers is that they do not earn enough money, they find it difficult to make a living from their earnings, and if they really want to help them, they accept the MSZP's proposal to receive double wages on Sunday. Of course, they also get their weekly holidays. That four years ago, KDNP referred to this, it was still a twisted thought. Somewhere behind it lies the religious people not going to work but going to church. This is a very commendable goal, but they can do it three out of a month on Sundays. The reference to which the head of the group referred to as the lobby for multinationals, I would like to ask whether, when the name "Sunday" was established in the history of the Hungarian language, multinational companies were operating. I think that half a millennium ago they didn't work in Hungary, and even in the Royal Law of St. Stephen, Sunday is a weekly day of rest, so it's fair day, so you can buy. We believe that this should be maintained in accordance with the customs of the age of XXI. It's also appropriate in the century. This is shown by the professional surveys that show that 11-16 percent of the visitors visit the shopping malls that you do not love very much, but that the customers are very fond of on Sundays. In particular, households with three or more working hours on weekdays have shown a preference for weekend shopping. At the same time, employees who undertake the Sunday shift will continue to do so for higher money, not to mention that the risk of dismissal is ten thousand if this opening hours are out of business. Rough simplification and error in simplifying the problem of food and discount chains, otherwise, is also highly visited. The ban on working on Sunday may not have to be done in trade. Just think about how many continuous plants there are, where it's unthinkable, and the real answer would be to raise the lawsuits if you were serious about caring for the workers. The amendments, which now have the summary debate, do nothing to improve this deceitful situation, that in the last five years people's livelihoods have become more difficult as a result of your governance. Whatever the Prime Minister says that poverty has not decreased in Hungary, unfortunately numbers prove that the number of poor people has increased by about 20-22 percent, and these people want to work, which you are now restricting by not opening shops and wanting to earn by receiving or receiving more wages on Sundays or holidays. So, back to my first sentence, what you're saying here is very false, and not by banning opening hours, but by settling salaries, by correcting the labour code, could help this problem. So we continue to believe that this is a misguided decision, as soon as we have the opportunity, we will change that. Thank you.
u2014-12-15-183	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Sneider, Mr Jobbik, Mr Vice-President.
u2014-12-15-184	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In the previous debate, we have already said that this bill can, of course, be supported in principle. We have set many examples from Western Europe of how the opening hours work on Sundays or weekends. We also submitted a number of amendments. We have now seen that none of these amendments have been included, none has been translated into the bill. Although we also see that, of course, there are amendments, some of which can be welcomed, some are actually not welcome. Just let me give you an example quickly, which I don't think went in the right direction. First, it was 400 square meters of floor space that could be kept open to a family business; then it went down to 200 square meters. It's just a small segment, but if you think that a furniture store, let's say it's size, and a furniture store can be run by a person, if that's what it is, you can probably shoot out a lot of furniture shops, which, by the way, work as a family business or small business, because they do have 300-400 square meters, because it's an area-intensive thing. So I told you, there are good ones, and there are bad changes, but I'm sure none of what Jobbik suggested came in. I have just listened to Mr Secretary of State, Member of the Council, Mr Szathmáry, and I am, of course, pleased that they want to change the Code of Work and touch the extra wages. However, this allowance, as you said, concerns those who will continue to work on Sundays, especially at gas stations and who knows what conditions. [[18.00]] What we wanted, however, was for those of us to receive a replacement wage and a higher wage allowance for the afternoon, for those of us who have lost their Sunday wage, but for those who have worked for these large companies or multi-company companies, it is a fact that this is going to fall out to 100 percent. That is why we asked that this be compensated, and that there be an afternoon wage supplement instead of 30 per cent 40 per cent or something similar. This would be very important in itself, as it is a fact and it is true that the actions of the retail workers are extremely low. In general, this can be said for almost everything in Hungary, but here it is definitely. It is not without reason that 15,000 employees are missing from this area according to the Chamber's findings, and according to the trade unions, because they are going abroad, because they do not earn 70,000 forints with obviously 8 hours of hard work per day, and work is getting harder and harder because there is little labour, and we can see how shop sellers run from one place to another every day because they do not simply win the job. Let us say that, of course, you are wrong in this regard, but we have already discussed this with the Socialists, who are alarming us that 20 000 jobs will be lost, because there will obviously not be such a job loss, but I have told them what is expected and it can mean sending a few hundred people, but not among workers, trade workers, but rather with cleaning staff and security guards. Well, we continue to say that this bill would be really acceptable if this afternoon wage supplement were to be increased, but if the amendment was tabled, then we would also be making amendments to the Labour Code. Then there was another thing that we think might be important for the introduction - which the media is less talking about - that is not only about opening hours on Sunday, but also about opening hours on a daily basis, since opening hours will usually be regulated between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. We said that, especially in the initial period, it was quite clear to us that it could have been allowed to be 5 to 23 hours. It should be possible for large companies or large businesses to be open during this period if they feel like it. Well, the answer to that at the committee meeting was pretty much that this was a work organisation problem. Now, I'm asking you, is this our problem, how do you say Tesco or any of the others organize it if he wants to keep it open from 5:00 instead of 6:00? So, obviously, this was a very poor reason, and obviously, in my view, it would have been a good thing for admissibility, but it did not go through either, just as almost no better proposal has never been adopted. I don't even talk about the other areas, which are still mentioned here; obviously, this is the question of self-service cash registers, which could or should have been arranged. I believe that in Hungary, however, it is a much more serious issue for workers than many others, which appear in this bill. Well, please, if this is how the self-service cash registers spread, where an employee makes 70,000 forints, I don't know what's gonna happen here in a few years. Here, indeed, tens of thousands could lose their jobs. I believe that there is, of course, technical progress, and that we should not be living in a time of machine destruction, and this must be taken into account, but as long as unemployment is so high, as long as people are earning so little, it could and should be limited in Hungary. We have also proposed this, but this has also been swept away. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So summa summarum, many, many arguments have been made here pro and versus. As I said, we can support the proposal in principle, but unfortunately we see that only one real amendment has not been included in this bill. We will therefore continue to look forward to tomorrow's referral on the Code of Labour, and we will establish our position, as it seems, unfortunately, that we need to adopt a position here at the last minute, because it has not been prepared in this respect, nor is this law, as much as it is for Parliament's debate, and that is why we need to make such serious decisions at the last minute. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the further speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2014-12-15-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government's amendments do not address in any way the two biggest threats to keeping the shops closed on Sunday, namely the fact that tens of thousands of people could be on the street, and the income of commercial workers, which is low and net, is still reduced by HUF 70-80-90,000. In the absence of impact studies, estimates are spread on a wide scale, and KDNP speaks directly of demand growth on the basis of the growth in retail turnover, or at least only of the re-alignment of traffic. The trade associations, on the other hand, are talking about 20-30 000 redundancies, a drop in traffic. This remains a faith dispute until a study is carried out to assess the possible consequences. KDNP did not put this on the table, but, in its usual manner, it merely wants to decide on an ideological basis a question that concerns workers' existentiality in a fleshy manner. We, too, could easily decide the question on a pure and valuable basis. The LMP would also support the proposal as a result of its commitment to a consumer society and a sustainable society. The problem is that a responsible party in Hungary cannot support such a move today. Today, actions are so low, and employment in our country is so low, which can simply not be ignored. The Hungarian reality is that workers do not work in good spirits on the last day of the week, but as a means of living, and employers take advantage of it. This is why the union that initially supported the proposal has now withdrawn, as it sees such a move in trade under the current conditions of action as only going to make the situation worse. The very low wage level in trade today is making living increasingly difficult. In view of the tax laws and the budget, they also believe that the negotiations on wage increases for next year are on a forced path. There's no way to raise wages, reduce workers' poverty. With the loss of Sunday's money, workers are in even worse income situations, so the trade union expects the government to provide guarantees that in the event of the loss of the Sunday's allowance, the actions will not be reduced. The LMP also submitted three amendments in order to incorporate these guarantees into the law as much as possible. We have proposed that Sunday closure should only take place if employers carry out wage payments in line with the sectoral wage tariff system. This could have compensated for the loss of income for the employees. Our other proposal would have reduced possible redundancies by allowing employees to work in convenience stores. They were both rejected by the government, none of which were included in the summary amendment proposal. The summary amendment contains a substantial amendment, reducing the size limit from 400 to 200 square metres. In addition, the amendments leave in the law the rubber rule, such as the fact that a government decree may grant exemption from the law without any specific restriction. Unfortunately, this is a way for lobbying interests to be freed. To sum up, therefore, since this proposal does not provide guarantees against the negative consequences for workers in this form, it cannot be supported. It is not known how much less income will be made, how many jobs will be at risk, and overall, workers will benefit either well or poorly. In a country where such poverty, where there is so much poverty in the workforce, where the majority of commercial workers earn below the minimum level of living, is not a timely step. We think that there are much more up-to-date steps, and the government should turn its concern for workers into action in terms of the labour code and wage negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-187	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group will take the floor. You have the floor. [[18.10]]
u2014-12-15-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Prime Minister said these days that we all know that the most difficult thing for Hungarian people is to tell them how they should live. This is one of the most attractive features of the Hungarians..I think that this law is very brutally interfering with the privacy of Hungarian people, and it is very sad when a sector is pulled out by the government and refers to the lobbying power of all kinds of multinationals, while CBA's lobbying power is shown in this law, while CBA drivers park 250 million HUF cars in front of CBA. I don't understand how you think you're gonna take a sector out, and the rest is not important, like, in animal husbandry, hospitals, doctors, there are a lot of sectors where you have to work on weekends. I find it outrageous when they try to tell me, in a hypocritical way, where to go and when to shop on the weekends. Today, every five families shop on a weekend, on Sunday. And let me tell you something else, Congressman: you know who will be very happy with this law? The Ukrainians, the Romanians, the Slovaks. You know? ! [[Peter Harrach intervenes.]] Because we're going to Romania, Ukraine and Slovakia. And I find it outrageous when you want to dictate that I can buy a liter of milk for 300 forints in a small settlement, or, say, buy it for 189 forints, and it is very, very important for Hungarian families to have access to cheaper products, because, you know, retailers shop at these hated multi-enterprises. It would be good to have laws in this House that represent the interests of the Hungarian people, and, let's say, not the interests of a multi-chain, the CBA. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-189	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2014-12-15-190	Thank you very much for the floor. I see that in the previous debate we were discussing this law with about the same Members, but I do not see that the very important issues have been understood to this day. You're giving these people forced rest on Sunday, and these people, as I said in the debate, if they had been asked, would have said that they wanted to work because they want to make more money. They don't want to work on Sundays for good, but they want to be able to supplement their salaries so that they can create normal living conditions for their children, so that they can put meat and fresh vegetables on the table. I also said in the debate that my fellow Member from the MSZP, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, that, yes, 350 forints in small shops is a litre of milk, and 189 for companies that you do not like. Then our fellow Member Péter Harrach yelled to me, "The quality difference is the difference." You know, if you were to go through these shops, you would see that in most of them milk is a Hungarian product of 189 HUF, right from my county. I think that I stand up for the product because it gives it in a very, very good quality for 189 HUF, and we can see that in small shops you really have to sell very expensive milk bought from large multinationals, which people will no longer be able to pay for. Which is very, very sweet, and really plus in the final provision of your amendments, that they will decide who will be excluded from this law. I very much hope that we will not see exceptions which are precisely those that you have in the majority of municipalities or settlements or parts of settlements that serve your interests. I really hope you're not trying to serve your friends with this again. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-191	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group. Here you go. One minute, 44 seconds.
u2014-12-15-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When I was listening to my fellow Member István Józsa, I was just thinking that when the word "Sunday" came into being, it was likely that if there had been a man with psychic capacity, he would have looked at what the Hungarian Parliament was talking about. So that on the day of the fair there is no fair, this is what the Hungarian Parliament is talking about, this is absurd. My apologies, as a man who loves and deals with history, I find this thing absurd. I also find it absurd that this proposal speaks of things that I think are justified and resolves in a way that has nothing to do with these proposals. I think it is undisputed that families care little about each other on Sunday, and this is obviously not because shops are open on Sunday, but because the reality that is in Hungary, the misery that affects four million Hungarians and more than their family members, besides starving children, cannot show families the same kind of family life as they could in a prosperous society. The problem is that people, workers, are exploited on Sunday; the code of work you set up makes it possible for workers to be exploited by companies. That's something to change, not close the shops. The problem is that while there really is a moral crisis in this country, they are right, while you are not dealing with the elimination of poverty, but the hairing of Sunday's opening hours. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-15-193	Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on this item. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, whether he wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-15-194	Mr President, Dear House, I don't know about this low-quality, hateful and demagogic text from the MSZP [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. Dr. László Varga: Reject what you are saying.]] It's worth answering. Let me do one or two things, though. [[Dr. István Józsa: Instruct him to speak.]]
u2014-12-15-195	Excuse me, Mr. Group Leader. My fellow Members, Mr Group Leader, have not spoken to anyone. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: He says insulting things!]]
u2014-12-15-196	Yes, it was offensive for everyone to be alarmed by 23 million Romanians, and it was also on the side of the MSZP. These alarms are also MSZP texts. [[Dr. László Varga: Shame on you!]] The congresswoman mentioned CBA. Over 90 percent of CBA's business will be closed. What are you talking about? [[Dr. István Józsa: But you have a 250 million car! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's another question. My fellow Member referred to the religious aspect. Did you ever hear us say that in this bill? No. What's this? It's slander. Let's keep looking. Sunday-Sunday. We are pushing and we want markets and fairs to work on Sunday. What are you talking about? Again, a defamation. That was the content of your speech. Let me mention one more stupid thing: four million people in poverty in Hungary? [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Do you know what you're saying? [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes.]] Look at Eurostat. What's it about? It names two categories: one is poverty, the other is poverty. Do you know the percentage of poverty in Hungary today? There you go. 8-9 percent. [[Dr. István Józsa: according to you.]] How much was it during the first Orbán government? Four percent. When did it double? In a time of socialist governments. What are you talking about? [[Dr. László Varga: Lies! That's a lie!]] What's going on? The campaign is to prove that right-wing representatives are getting rich, people are getting poor. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: That's it! Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] Well, there you go. It's a campaign strategy invented by campaign gurus. [[Complaining from the benches of the MSZP: The problem is that this is the truth!]] And that's how you adjust the statistics. They cheat and slander. But let's talk about the facts, because I think it's more important if I still have time. The changes that were not mentioned earlier were about one of the five Sundays, and the amendment now marked the four Sundays before Christmas, plus a free Sunday. That's acceptable to us. It is also acceptable that we get a certain margin of manoeuvre by means of the government decree, and that there may be exceptions not already included in the law. And allow me one more aspect. I think that family businesses do not have a competitive advantage, but that we can reduce their competitive disadvantage a little bit now. I hope that the aspects of family businesses are also accepted and supported by the MSZP. This law, with these amendments, as I have already mentioned, I hope, is in the interest of the entire Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-197	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. [[18.20]] Dear Parliament, The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol follows. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. The Commission's reports on the proposal to amend law for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to at least contribute to my ability to read my text. Thank you. The submission is T/2083. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Sustainable Development as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2083/3. and T/2083/4. was given to them. T/2083/6. T/2083/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-198	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2083 submitted by the Minister for National Development. Bill No. 1. The need for this proposal has been justified by the obligation to comply with EU law rules and by simpler and more transparent rules in line with the practice of law enforcement in recent years. In the context of climate protection responsibility, there was a need for new and comprehensive legislation on fluorogas responsible for warming, and it was also essential that domestic legislation on climate protection and climate policy be transformed and complied with the EU's efforts in the area of legal regulation. Our Commission has received proposals from the Committee on Sustainable Development, which have mainly included legal, linguistic and codification clarifications and have further facilitated compliance and implementation in EU legal standards. In addition to the resolution on the proposals received, the Legislative Committee also expressed an intention to amend further, which were presented in several places with the same content as the amendments closing the detailed debate, only by correcting and clarifying them. Finally, the Commission presented the proposals as a proposal for 23 amendments in favour of yes and three non-voting votes. In full compliance with EU requirements, the Legislative Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 22 yes and 4 no votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-199	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dessert. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The common language is known as the Kyoto Convention or the Kyoto Protocol, which was the forum where the so-called greenhouse gas volume was regulated for different countries. This was the forum where they also decided that these so-called quotas could be traded by countries. In practice, this meant that those who use less of these quantities than they should or produce less in the country would be free to sell this, who is in reverse and who is free to buy. On this basis, it can be concluded that Hungary has a marketable quota under the Kyoto Convention. At the legislative committee, it was said as a minority opinion that, if sold by Hungary, this quota should be allocated to investments related to environmental protection, energy saving, energy efficiency, and not to give to God, or to the modernisation of buildings. The minority opinion also pointed out that this was a good example of this in the past, well ten years ago, and this was called the panel program. After all, the total amount from the sale of the quota could then be used to finance the panel programme. I think it was an extremely popular measure, hundreds of thousands of homes could be renewed, fewer harmful substances could be produced on this basis, and the people living in the apartments could pay significantly less overhead, because the amount that could be saved during heating, I think, is not negligible. In the course of minority opinions - beyond climate protection - it was said that if such a programme were to be implemented, this would not only mean that buildings could become more modern, but also that this could constitute a significant order for small and medium-sized enterprises operating in Hungary. After all, if a large number of apartments can be renewed, this could mean work for small and medium-sized enterprises, and if we continue to think about it, then I think it can be clear to everyone that this could mean work for tens of thousands of people and create new jobs. This would require nothing more than the fact that, if we provide for this quota to be sold, we will devote the amount of this input to investments of this kind. I thought it might be a common interest in this country. Not to mention the fact that the events of the past period, such as the very early launch of tenders in connection with the boiler exchange programme, in citations, so there is a huge need for such calls to be made, and I think that using this amount would have been possible to include such a programme, which would also have met the need for such programmes by the public or by social enterprises. The other minority opinion, which was said, was about transparency. In fact, it was precisely formulated that, if there is - and it usually happens - units that are allocated free of charge should be made known to those who received the free one, let us put it out of quota. On the other hand, we proposed that revenue from the sale of units should be made public; if possible, this should also appear on the website, so that information is made available to as many people as possible, who could receive such an opportunity free of charge, units and, if sold, how much we sold it - and this is of particular importance - and when we sold it. How much we sold it for is of particular importance because, in my view, we have managed to sell these quotas at significantly weaker prices in the last few years than before. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-12-15-201	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to speak now. [[Zsolt Szabó: Then in the closing word.]] He's closing, Mr. Secretary, yes. Thank you very much. Then the 10 minutes will be available to the secretary of state. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee for Sustainable Development has not presented a rapporteur. The minority opinion expressed in the committee will be presented by Mrs Anita Heringes within a three-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-15-202	Thank you very much for the floor. We have also tabled our opinion as a minority amendment, as negotiations in the committee are now so strange about any law that when one tries to explain the reasons for its amendment, he cannot know whether this will be accepted by the majority of the government or not. If not, then one maintains this justification as a minority opinion. We have sought publicity here, as my fellow Member Dezső Szigély said, that we believe that the amount of revenue from sales would be a public interest figure, which should appear on the website as soon as this sale takes place. [[18.30]] The Ministry's response to this was that apparently they immediately told the government how this sale was made, and this is obviously a higher publicity or communication in their opinion. We still maintain this, that we believe that the good thing is that if the Ministry, as the sale was made, would indicate on the website in the form of a communication what revenues were derived from quota sales. The other thing that we have actually told you in the debate is that we have turned revenue to 100% environmental issues and green policy issues. And if we have that kind of income, then that's what we really need to use it for. And it can't be the one good answer you've given us that 50 percent of electric cars are being used for that; that was the department's answer. We looked into it, we couldn't find these points, 50 percent of which would be turned into electric cars, but we think that a panel program would serve people's interests much better today. Therefore, we still believe that if you were to present our amendment at the last minute and accept it under your own name, we would also thank you very much. Thank you.
u2014-12-15-203	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. Here comes Congresswoman Anita Heringes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-204	Thank you very much for the floor. We are still of the opinion that this is a political process that has been ruined in many respects, as the Orbán government is doing in relation to environmental protection and climate protection, because, as can be seen during the period of the third Orbán government, climate protection is completely fragmented, the objectives are determined by the Minister responsible for energy policy, while the management of the assets is carried out by the Minister of National Economy. This dual control, I think, can be seen for everyone that it can't be good if they pull the same wagon in two directions. Fidesz's climate policy is the most talkative fact that since 2010, as has been mentioned several times, only a quarter of the stadiums have been spent by the state to modernise the energy efficiency of family homes. The previous few socialist governments that you have spewed a lot have spent a lot more money on panel reconstruction programs, including these costs, even during the crisis, in the most difficult years, 292 723 housing units were renovated between 2008 and 10 by left-wing governments. This is on an annual average of almost 100,000, which, after the change of government, was only 4045 in 2011 and 1082 in 2012. I think these numbers tell us a lot, especially for families who are still waiting for the upgrade to be made on their property. Fidesz's mistake not only lost Hungary's revenue from the quota sales, but because of the bad decisions of the current governing party, there was a lack of collateral in the panel program that brought about these numbers that I just told you. Due to the poor quota sales policy of the Orbán government, the budget lost tens of billions of HUF. A professionally appropriate sale would have meant secure revenues and orders and new jobs for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, and would have reduced the cost of everyday living for hundreds of thousands of families in a real and sustainable manner. Because, you know, fellow Members, that's the real reduction in the rent that doesn't have to be paid in an account. That is to say, the implementation of a panel programme of the same size as that carried out by left-wing governments would really help people today. We hope that you will hear our words and hope that you will try to think a little more environmentally and sustainablely. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-205	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement. I give you the floor, you have a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government has thought of the fight against climate change on one occasion, namely, when they tried to justify why they had secretly concluded an agreement with the Russians on the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. In other cases, however, they do not want to know about the changing climate when they do not spend enough money on thermal insulation of homes when they do not allow the construction of wind power plants when they encourage the relocation of the largest carbon footprint industries, such as machinery and rubber, instead of the local economy and services, they pretend that global warming does not exist. It exists, and the ever-increasing price waves, the increasing weather extremes, inform everyone about it in time. Hungary, as one of the most exposed European countries to the negative effects of climate change, should have a long-standing focus on preventing the expected consequences, minimising damage and seeking opportunities for adaptation. Instead, the Hungarian government behaves as the most stubborn climate skeptics. It eliminates the Ministry of the Environment; it scatters climate issues among the most diverse ministries and offices so that it is not even possible to find the government responsible; it eliminates the independence of the green authorities; it squanders the financial resources of the green movements which play a key role in strengthening climate awareness; it disincentives the education of the environment in schools. And on the international stage, it always acts as a driving force for climate protection, doing everything it can to minimise CO2 reduction commitments. The Hungarian government has neither a coherent climate strategy, nor a climate adaptation scenario. There is a government plan to reduce CO2 emissions, but in reality, greenhouse gas production has started to grow again due to minimal economic growth, while other EU Member States have already found an economic model that can expand the economy without increasing gas emissions. This model is based on family farms and organic farming in agriculture, water-saving irrigation technologies, transport for public passenger transport, renewables in the energy sector and increasing energy efficiency. I mean, it's all about something the Orbán government does the exact opposite. Hungary is doing nothing to reduce the chance of climate change locally and globally. The government's activity is not a solution, but a risk increase. In addition, it was possible for the Hungarian society to be unaware of the problem. The public media has lost environmental programs and green journalists with good backgrounds. The pro-government press also faithfully follows the government saying nothing, the danger and the opportunity to adapt do not reach people. In the midst of the most effective actors of attitude-forming, the civilian greens, in the midst of the state's withdrawal of money and the public's control, are increasingly difficult to concentrate on their basic tasks, and those in power are sending out the worst possible message instead of example: they boast of large SUVs and luxury cars, heated pools and huge energy-intensive palaces, promoting an obviously unsustainable lifestyle. The Kyoto law could also have been about changes to harmonise legislation on climate change, but instead it only contains new benefits for the largest pollutants. LMP cannot identify with this self-dangerous policy. We believe that reducing the risk of climate change is an obvious national interest, which, even in a political crisis such as this one, cannot be turned away by a responsible government. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-207	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although it is the summation of the amendments, I would therefore like to express my sense of absence, starting with the conclusion that the Orbán government's activity is a step backwards for Hungary in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. [[18.40]] So when there was a year behind us - say, 2013 - when the share of renewable energies could not increase within declining domestic electricity generation, but even decreased compared to that, I think this statement can be factually justified. We do not understand why it was necessary to remove the KÁT system, cogeneration, with a single parliamentary decision on 16 March 2011, by means of which these equipment could produce electricity and district heating instead of gas heating with a modern cogeneration technology recognised in Europe. This decision carried out an incredible destruction; and I do not want to name Mrs Ágnes Molnár, a pediatrician, who, according to her learned profession, should not have dealt with this area, but she played a significant role in bringing the KÁT system to an end in Hungary, its capacity of 1100 megawatts to nothing and Hungary's position in the area of greenhouse gases and CO2 emissions to a lower and lower position. At the time when the KÁT system was terminated, they promised to introduce METAR, a system to support renewable energy production, but they have been talking about it ever since. Certain elements may work, but the impact that this MEDAR should have on the expansion of renewable energy production in the field of energy production is not at all felt. However, Hungary has the opportunity to break out as a member of the European Union in the field of energy saving in the spread of alternative energies. If anything, this is the area where the Union will invest, the opportunities offered in this area, additional government expenditure or simply regulation would make a significant contribution to EU aid. Let us consider, for example, the reduction of energy use, which is essential for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, i.e. the increase in energy efficiency. For this, Hungary still has an extremely large area for improving building insulation. We never denied that the Orbán government launched the panel program in 2001, but we ran it, and unfortunately, you are the ones who do not continue the panel renovation program, at least not to the extent that it would be appropriate. From an energy point of view, there is another area of building renovation, smaller condominiums, and specifically family houses. Thus, their insulation makes it possible to save even more energy in particular, so it would be worthwhile to do so, especially with regard to the expansion of employment. So it would be possible to create 100,000 jobs here only in the area of building renovation if you were willing to start a continuously operating programme, provided year after year. The situation is similar with alternative energy production. Hungary has excellent potential, for example, in geothermal energy. Well, I don't mean the spas, because from that, thank God, there's a nice number, but from the greater depth, the high-enhanced medium or the so-called hot rock, hot rock technology, when they don't even bring up the medium below, but simply squeeze energy water 3-4-5 thousand meters deep, and energy medium, steam comes up; this could also produce electricity, and five times as much district heating energy is available. For example, the district heating of Budapest with such an electric power plant with a power capacity of 300-400 megawatts could be fully ensured in a renewable form. There would be no need to burn natural gas, there would be no CO2 emissions, there would be continuous fuel, so it can always be controlled according to the needs, and the domestic capabilities are extremely good for it. I therefore believe that in this area, if we look at the increasingly positive example of what the Federal Republic of Germany or even Italy produces in the area of geothermal energy, or if it is not a Member State of the EU, Turkey, where it has recently been put into operation a deep-heat-mining geothermal power plant with a power supply of 600 megawatts of electricity, operating on a hot rock principle, there would be examples for which its economy could be guaranteed. And what you like to say is that the reindustrialization of the country could be built on it, a domestic industry that produces geothermal thermal mining equipment, operates and maintains such power plants. So if we usually follow the legislative requirements of the Kyoto Protocol and the Effort Sharing Decision with a law on harmonisation, we should also consider that there are a number of options both in the area of domestic CO2 reduction and alternative energy production that the government has not considered important for some reason, and at least try to compensate for the damage caused by the removal of cogeneration and the KÁT system. Therefore, as a professional and a man committed to green energy, I would encourage concrete, decisive action to be taken with the increased use of EU funds in this area. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-15-209	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó. You have ten minutes, Secretary of State, please.
u2014-12-15-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, We have a proposal ahead of us, this is T/2083. a bill, the debate of which is closed today, but I have the feeling that this new bill, which constitutes an EU legal unit, has triggered a completely different kind of debate than what is actually in the law. Here would be the underlying ideas that I would like to answer at the end, so that all my dear fellow Members, especially on the opposition side, will see that they can calm down and vote in favour of this bill. The bill itself is a proposal for the transposition of implementing and EU law, but, as has been said here in the debate, and it can be seen in several places, in several forms, in the form of questions and articles, which are of particular interest to everyone regardless of age and professional orientation, since it is climate policy itself and, in fact, our future, if you will. A lot of substantive comments and amendments have been received in recent years. We looked at these, looked at them, and looked at what strengthens the direction that is contained in this bill, and we tried to accept them and implant them. Here it is primarily about establishing a regulated system under regulated conditions with a legal background and an official background; and finally trying to move on to the future under orderly conditions. I would particularly like to highlight the duties of the authorities. I would like to thank both the Committee on Sustainable Development and the TAB for their active involvement in helping us think, and also the fellow Members who submitted amendments to the motion. Our goal is to create a single climate policy. During October, the European Union and the Council themselves laid down the 2030 climate and energy directives. That gives us 15 years. According to this, we want to continue to create climate policies in the future, in keeping with these legislative backgrounds and circumstances. We have only one goal: the government's aim is to maintain economic competitiveness, to explore and use energy sources to maintain and maintain this competitiveness in the long term. There have been some issues that, if I may, I would like to refer to, which are only subjective. [[18.50]] One is the panel program. Yes, the government does not want a panel program of a kind to be paid by the next government a year or two years later, but we would like a condominium program, and its first step has already been completed, since the warm home program could be applied for up to four apartments, now it is possible to apply for five apartments to 60 apartments, the next stage is specifically for condominiums, so both the brick-built and the panel program, and the next one will start. There is another source that my fellow Members always forget, which is KEOP itself, so it is the EU's resources. If you look at the guidelines set out in the operational programme, there will be tens of billions of HUF in the coming years for the renovation of apartments and certain types of family houses, and this includes not only insulation, but also precisely energy renovations. I would like to ask you to vote calmly on this legislation on the basis of prior trust, these signs are coming, the first will be published in December. Take a look, please, at these regulations or signs, if you would allow me to put it that way. The other issue raised was, in fact, the development of the MEDAR system, brought it up by my fellow Member, Józsa. He's making a bill, and he's gonna be here in front of the House, so you can take a look at it. In the interests of transparency and clarity - Mrs Anita Heringes asked that question and also tabled an amendment in this regard - I would like to point out to you that, on the one hand, the government has a mandatory annual reporting obligation and, on the other hand, there is a reporting obligation here before Parliament on the implementation of the energy strategy. These materials can be viewed on the website, but I respectfully ask you to contact us, and at any time any information about the quota sales, where it will be spent and how it will be used, we will present this. What's interesting is that the electric car has come up for many times now. We have just begun, not by us, but by NGM, and we hope that it will soon be a success, a tableable and transparent success. We would like to move forward in the field of energy - and this applies in the same way to geothermal energy, in the same way to solar energy. What is interesting, however, in the climate policy adopted by the EU, there is a clear question of how each EU Member State compiles its own energy portfolio, and it says that Hungary is actually more advanced than the 2020 or 2030 Directive. This transposition of the directive, which we have here, is also promoting a transparent and accelerated process, and I therefore ask you to take this into account. Dear Parliament, To sum up my thoughts, I would ask for the summation of the amendment to be supported, and if a little bit is important to you about climate policy and the step we are taking forward, even if this may not be the step that could be hoped for, I would ask you to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CXXXIV on the reduction of young people's smoking and retail trade in tobacco products follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/2080. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2080/5. and T/2080/6. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2080/9. and the summary report is T/2080/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-15-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 CXXXIV on reducing smoking of minors and retailing of tobacco products. T/2080 on the amendment of Act T/2080 Bill No. 1. The objective of the proposed legislation is to provide a reasonable minimum extension of the product scope for sale in the tobacco store with products that are organically linked to the supply of tobacco products. The proposal allows, in particular, the sale of public transport tickets and the uploading of mobile phone balances. The proposal also raises the threshold after which the law makes the issue of another tobacco product retail right mandatory. The proposal is also made by National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. is responsible for the intensive involvement of tobacco control and health protection tasks. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, which was supported by our committee with 20 yes and 5 no. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 20 yes and 6 no. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-213	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a seven-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-15-214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Yeah, it's all about reducing young people's smoking, in principle, according to his address, and then again, we're talking about the fact that there's nothing more to go on with than the so-called traffikkuty. Now, those friends and now operators who have won a concession, thanks to you, are talking about expanding the product range in places where they were unable to issue concessions, let's say, where appropriate, about population changes, how to issue and electronic tender. Even though we have tabled amendments, the amendments have not been taken into account by you when we wanted to remove the products mentioned above in the product scope, they were not willing to do so. A clarification was made that chewing gum was now described as chewing gum in the product description; this was what was appropriate for you. So let's be clear, this law has nothing to do with protecting juveniles. This law has to do with increasing traffic for friends who, as explained, are told that there is a lack of traffic. But what's the purpose? The goal is, I understand, to get as many people off smoking as possible. If we stop smoking as many people as possible, then this will mean that the sales sites to which you give concessions and operate as trades - sorry, not trades, sorry, because they have been renamed, they are operating as national tobacco shops in Hungary today - there will be a reduction in traffic. This makes sense, the more people quit smoking, the less they will go into the national tobacco store - and what about the national tobacco store? He's gonna be losing traffic. And you write down in the explanatory memorandum that the aim is to provide as much traffic as possible for these national tobacco shops. Well, how are those two compatible? No, you know it's not about what you're saying here, it's about something else. I should also mention it, because it is a very, very talkative fact that the amendment proposal before us since the birth of the law has been Amendment 8, which means that the text of our fundamental law has been amended on average every two and a half months since its entry into force. As your tagging buddies dictated their momentary interests, you've changed. This is already thoughtful in itself, and it is also interesting to think about whether what we have ahead of us is what you are going to vote on and what you are going to vote on - I will always stress it, because it is here that you are going to vote on it, because you can still decide on your own what laws are being introduced, because we will not vote on these amendments - how long these will apply. [[19.00]] Maybe next year, in the first parliamentary session, they'll have a new law on tobacco products again, because since then someone has changed, I don't know, Aunt Piri's business is worse, and she wants to sell flowers, and then they'll put the flowers in, and we can talk about anything. We may be able to get there, because we're about to be there to run smaller retail stores, where there will be tobacco products. We will see how permanent these rules will be, because you, let us not talk about just saying that fine-tunings and clarifications are being carried out, so that the domestic tobacco retail market - I quote from your reasoning - will be further strengthened. Well, that's not the point. At least we don't want to. If we believe you, then let's go to the smokers here and try to get everyone off the hook, then we don't want this market to get any stronger, because then these two are incompatible. But maybe we're the wrong ones. Then they also justify - and I will tell you frankly that I am not talking entirely about the amendments because they have not changed almost anything important about this law either with the amendments - you say that, on the basis of the surveys, the reason for the drastically decreasing traffic data is clearly mass cessation of smoking. Well, then we're very happy about this - we just want to see some background study. We'd really like to see who you've done this kind of survey, what dipping data is, where, and then let's see, and let's be happy about it, too, if we're quitting smoking... - the only problem is that that's not the reason we're losing traffic. The reason for what we have said several times, by the way, is that the black market is growing, and what is happening is that smokers who have not quit smoking tobacco - unfortunately, I say again - have turned to cheaper and illegal tobacco products. With this - I have already said it once today, because you have introduced three such laws and this could be treated together - we are increasing health risks because who knows what tobacco products will be consumed from now on, and secondly, we will result in a huge loss of state revenue and generate, because as the black trade increases, you will have a loss of state revenue. So we would like to know if there really are such research results, because we want to finally achieve real success. I don't want to take up any more of your time, I'll have a normal speech, where I'm afraid I can't promise you, Secretary of State, because I've already received at the committee meeting that I've told you for the fourth time why it's not good to sell a line ticket and a charge card in these national tobacco shops. Unfortunately, as long as I have the opportunity, I will say to you, for the fifth time in my next speech, why it is not good to expand the product scope, why it is not good to allow us to sell bar tickets and charge cards in these shops. This will be the last, and I promise you, you will have to listen, because, of course, tomorrow, without any heartache and any remorse, you will vote for this law as well as every law that you bring in here before the National Assembly. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-215	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mrs Shegmanné Secretary of State, Mrs Nemes Sára, that she wishes to speak on behalf of the authors now, either at the debate stage or at the closing stage. [[For signal:]] Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that she will speak later. Dear Parliament, That leaves her ten minutes in the coming period. The designated Economic Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First of all, Congressman Pál Völner, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-216	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the bill is to provide a reasonable minimum extension of the product scope that can be marketed in the tobacco store with products that are organically linked to the supply of tobacco products. The proposal allows, in particular, the sale of chewing gum and menthol products, candies, plates and public transport tickets, as well as the uploading of mobile phone balances, although Jobbik does not agree. The proposal also raises the threshold after which the law makes the issue of another tobacco product retail right mandatory. After 2 thousand people, one entitlement is raised with half of the proposal, and after the entry into force, applications must be issued in such a way that the threshold is 3,000 persons. The proposal amends the interval from 45 days to 120 days, after which the new tender will have to be launched after the concession contract has ceased. I would particularly like to point out that the bill is the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. is responsible for the intensive involvement of tobacco control and health protection tasks. Accordingly, the organisation should organise, conduct and support media campaigns, ensure the Community's appearance of health protection aspects, such as the appearance at sporting events. The draft legislation, in accordance with the previous law, would allow the self-employed to continue the family business in the event of the death of the retail rightholder and to clarify the provisions relating to the fine and withdrawal of the licence that can be imposed under the law. Point 2 of the summarised amendment also makes it the task of the public limited liability company to organise the central education of concession holders. Point 3 of the summarised amendment provides precisely that the Minister shall determine, on the basis of the population data of the HCSO, the data on which the number of entitlements to be granted may be revised in each municipality. Point 4 of the summary proposal removes the section of the bill which requires the public limited liability company to contribute to health care tasks. This provision is set out in T/2081. However, the proposal is presented in the form of an amendment, so it is indeed legal. Point 5 of the summary proposal is related to point 7. If the tobacco product retailer fails to comply with the statutory reporting obligation for a total period of at least five days without due cause, this will result in the termination of the concession contract in the future. Point 6 of the summary amendment, on the one hand, raises the lower limit of the fine to HUF 30,000, in line with the lower threshold for other legal disciplines, while at the same time proposing to maintain the current ceiling. The other amendments are technical and coherence modifiers. Dear House, As has been said in the speaker's speech, the fight against smoking is now out of the question, regardless of party political affiliation, and this proposal ultimately aims to increase the effectiveness of this fight, despite all criticism. In this regard, I would like to ask you to support the amendments, which will eliminate minor errors in the law, as well as the Commission report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-15-217	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, who also indicated his intention to speak in writing, is coming to speak. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-218	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Another amendment to the Trafic Act fits in with what you started with the construction of the Fidesz Moonyard. It's hardly a magic trick, because it's completely transparent, so at least the magician doesn't know when he's cheating; it shows exactly when you're cheating. There is a world trend on reducing smoking - an eligible target, the MSZP also supports less smoking for young people - you have built an aggressive market restructuring for this world trend and for a supportive health objective. Namely, János Lázár and his friend, Lazarus, are also the dominant owner of Continental, they have invented how to make more of the less, for them, for fidesz buddies, and therefore beat this rather market- alien approach throughout the regulation. So the fact that you are now bringing this in in the framework of this amendment is a public admission that market players have stressed from the outset that it is not possible to make a living selling tobacco in itself, these tobacco shops that you have created are not viable. They are slowly becoming a grocery store, they have expanded with many things already during the first submission period, now they are expanding with mint and other items. [[19.10]] From here, it is only a step to introduce the alcohol concession, a state monopoly, and, in the spirit of the fight against alcoholism, to sell it only in national tobacco and alcohol stores, of course, only to fidesz friends, so that they do not poison the Hungarian man, but only the moonyard with permission. So this is not a good trip. You can see that as a result, a narrow layer of feathers and wools. I don't want to break up the CBA owner's 250 million forint car again, or at least it's his, because it's seen in the CBA parking lot. You're very anti-multilateral, we don't like them very much either, but it's not common, and I think it's unprecedented, for a car of this value to be used by a company manager, because it's an insane luxury spending and luxury consumption. It is clear that CBA leaders can make extra profit with your help and support; there is no need to add that, of course, consumers' money, because consumers have paid so much more for the product. Returning to the amendment of the Law on Tobacco Control and Retailing of Tobacco Products, the amendments tabled by the TAB do nothing to improve the problems I have told you. So you guys are like the Bourbons, they were like, after the croaking, they didn't learn anything, and they didn't forget anything, who had a head left. So it's not clear by law what decides which of the two losers will have to lock up in a settlement. Now we're gonna have another Cubatov list of who's got more testimonials and who's gonna win the race between the two loss-making ones, maybe it's gonna be... [[István Szávay: Don't give me tips!]] Yeah, don't give me any tips. Furthermore, there is no explanation as to why the product scope to be sold may now be extended by mint candy from the goods previously removed. Like, after the cigarette, do you like the mint? Possibly. Nor does it settle the case of when and under which conditions the termination of the concession contract may be initiated, so to speak, by mutual agreement. The products listed in the proposal, such as soft drinks, are clearly expected to increase traffic, but in the future it is expected that they will lobby for further expansion. So I would suggest to the dear author and the majority of the Fidesz factions to step off this path. This triggers widespread social outrage that while people are poor, while some of the tramps who belong to your moon yard are getting richer and thicker. Interventions are made to the otherwise competitive market, where competition cannot take place, on the basis of which prices do not decrease but increase, the proportion of controlled products in tobacco sales is not decreasing, but is increasing, and therefore health risks are also increasing and tax revenues are decreasing. I think the budget misses about 50 billion forints that it cannot realise because of the black trade in tobacco products, so I suggest that you think about this, whiten this, and not that you want to sweep the money by, say, making the roads near and bypassing the city pay, because it makes life very difficult for a lot of people, and that upsets a lot of people. So this direction is wrong. Set a switch, return to competition, return to lower prices and reduce actual health risks. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-15-219	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, So for the fifth time, but I promise you, if necessary, we will tell you for the hundredth time what is wrong with this tobacco law, and we will also tell you what is wrong with the expansion of our product scope. So we do not agree that you want to put the line ticket sales in the tobacco shops, because it is completely contrary to the purpose of the law that as few people as possible go into a national tobacco store, that only smokers go in there, and that we will try to get them to stop doing the same thing. After all, the circle that uses a public transport ticket is much wider than the circle that smokes. So they clearly attract people who wouldn't otherwise go into a tobacco store because they don't smoke - that's half of it. But it's even more serious that you've also made it possible to have cell phone uploads in these tobacco stores. And for cell phone uploads, we have to mention something very important. Recharged mobile phones are used by young adults in Hungary. These are statements, which we can show, unlike you, how much the number of smokers has decreased. Who's using it? That's exactly the target group, the vulnerable target group you targeted to avoid smoking as far as possible. These young adults are also lured into the national tobacco store, come in, feel free to upload your card, upload your phone, and look around, see if you can get used to smoking - because your buddy's traffic is dropping. It's okay what we say, it can change. So we wanted them both out of the law. It was weird for us to sell ice cream, sell gum and everything. Do smokers usually buy ice cream? No. Kids like ice cream first. But these kids can't even go to the store. So how are they really gonna solve these things now? We would therefore prefer to reduce the product scope and see the product scope reduced as appropriate. And we're gonna say that more than once. I hope that the vision we have just heard from the MSZP representative will not come true. Although I'm afraid that the drinks will be coming in soon, and then everything, and it'll be another convenience store. Only then shouldn't have destroyed the convenience stores that you destroyed. From this point on, it was nothing more than getting the market for their own friends, their own buddies and their own henchmen. And then what this law is changing back to what I've said so far as a vision, because you can say that there is no such thing, and I'm talking nonsense here, and you don't have such plans, but it's about educating young people in a healthy way and reducing smoking. It is said that the number of retail outlets for tobacco products will be changed by opening one tobacco shop per 3,000 inhabitants instead of the two thousand inhabitants currently in force. What does that mean, by the way? It's nothing but a reduction in competition on the market. All it means is that from now on there will be no more tobacco stores, no more - I'm sorry, I always say trams, but they're gone, there won't be so many national tobacco stores in the country. And here comes the loophole again. In settlements where at least two tobacco shops are already operating, you can also decide that depending on the population, when it is possible to open even more national tobacco shops, depending on the population, you say that there are already two national tobacco shops, then there can be no more; no concessions, no concessions. What does that mean? It means that in settlements where your good people may be, there have been instances in which the husband and wife opened their little national tobacco store in the same house, side by side, they can say that from now on in this settlement, the national tobacco shopkeeper you prefer will not compete, from now on you will be the only one, because we will not issue a concession for this settlement. Then what's still a problem is that there's a possibility of abuse here. And you can tell me why they would abuse you. Because in the last five years, not only this, but a lot of things have been abused. They abused people's trust, abused their attempts to build a system in Hungary, trying to create a system that favors some privileged people. And those blackouts, those cash losses, let's say, that could be caused by the rise in black trading in the state budget, they'll be collected on the motorists. [[19.20]] Because the bypasses - bypass road, the Hungarian language is a very beautiful way to avoid the city - you wish to tax them. What will be the result of this? That people won't avoid the city, they'll come into town, and not just the motorists. Then where are the health risks when the whole town gets stoned again, you know, like smoke, smog, stuff like that? This also poses a health risk for people who have not smoked a single cigarette, just go out to the street in Budapest and try to walk from one tram stop to another. It'll affect them, but it doesn't matter anymore, because somewhere the revenue losses have to be created. What they want to change is electronic bidding. Again, I say that, of course, the world is changing, it can be operated electronically. Why can't it be? That's because we know how your application has been. Knowing the practice of tendering and evaluation, which you have carried out, as well as the scandals about selection, ensuring the possibility of electronic tendering can be a hotbed of further abuse without providing adequate guarantees. It's obvious. Following the secrecy of applications submitted on paper in previous years, we can rightly conclude that they are merely seeking the possibility of electronic tendering to make the selection procedures even less verifiable in the future, even less traceable in the future, as there were some issues with paper-based applications. Clearly, by this law, you will further strengthen the possibility of influencing selection with the things I have just listed. I would like to mention one more thing: this could also be good. Why not? Where applications have been applied twice in two years and have not been successful, they have not been able to conclude a concession contract, they say that they are not obliged to tender for 36 months. That's supposed to be acceptable. The question is, knowing you again, why you couldn't conclude a concession contract. I wonder if you think it's possible, because I do, unfortunately, that for some reason you prevented it from being a concession contract, that you didn't do the bidding, that clearly narrows the market again, or that you might have the opportunity to give it to someone close to you. To sum things up, it can be concluded that we cannot support this amendment, and we do not wish to participate in the opinion of such legislative proposals at all, because this is a scandal. As much as we know, we're gonna tell you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Scandal! The Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not support this bill. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the MSZP Group, to the extent possible. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When Roman general Aemilius Paulus destroyed Corinth in 146, which was then defenceless, the Romans said that they would restore the republic in Hellas. This is also the case in the bill on reducing young people's smoking. Everything is happening here, too, but nothing is being done to reduce underage smoking. It's just a couple of thirds. Let me give you a district example, if I may. In the past, when proposals were in place to protect minors from smoking, it was possible to open a tobacco store 50 meters away from schools. This rule has been changed, now it's 20 meters. This is plastically seen as the street where I live in Obuda, a tramp opened directly opposite the school. So, thanks to the law, directly against the school, there was a trade fair where tobacco products were sold and where young people should be prevented from smoking. You are bringing more products into this circle, which can be sold in transforms, and here is where I fit in with what my colleague Szilágyi said. Indeed, it is not good to lure those young people into the trade fairs to buy not tobacco, but other products, who would otherwise not have a place there. On Óbuda, 50 trade concessions were allocated. Of these 37 concessions, according to press reports, came into the hands of people who had nothing to do with III. district, not this business, but interestingly, these 37 well-known people have somehow become traffics. Not only the III. 2-3, up to 4 or 5 trucks were opened throughout the country. Zsolt Gyulai's circle of friends can also be discussed here, among these entrepreneurs. In the meantime, only 13 out of the 50 entrepreneurs who were included in Annex III were able to obtain a concession. they operate in the district and who are part of the III. they have such traffic management experience in the district. So in the language of numbers, 13 out of 50 trams is what III is. It continues to work in the hands of district traffickers, until 37 doesn't. So the vast majority of these tramps are involved in the traff. So I think that if you really wanted to fight against smoking, if you really wanted to represent the interests of young people, you wouldn't be introducing such laws. Then they wouldn't put in a law that would allow a school to operate 20 meters from a trade fair, or a school that would lure children into the trades, and where, by the way, if we look at it, it's all about serving your circles of friends, acquaintances, or business. Young people don't need that kind of protection. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-15-223	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Sára Hegmanné Nemes, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate in the time frame available. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2014-12-15-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The current debate would be a summary of the proposals for amendments to the legislation on the reduction of young people's smoking and the amendment of the law on tobacco trade. I would like to comment on these, but I would like to respond to a specific point. As I said in the general debate - just in order not to remain mistaken in the head - a common agreement is an opportunity and a right for the concession winners. In view of the fact that this right cannot be removed from the concession winner only in the event of an infringement, therefore the concessionaire, the Hungarian State, cannot terminate this contract. I don't even know why they keep coming up with the problem of mutual agreement. The current life-like situation is that a lot of trams and so many nos, perhaps between 10 and 20, have returned their concessions, given that traffic data has not proven their expectations and ideas. In this case, of course, the State is legally willing to terminate the concession contract by common agreement, and in this case, of course, only the concession fee is payable pro rata to time. So this means that a common agreement is an advantage and opportunity for the concession holder, and the government and the law itself give the State and the Minister for National Development a legitimate opportunity to terminate this contract with it. By the way, the state, I'm going to say this once again, can't give up this acquired right, can't cancel the concession agreement. Turning to the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee presented a comprehensive amendment to the bill, taking into account the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate on the Committee on Economic Affairs. These amendments, among other things, call for a minimum extension of the range of products that can be sold at the tobacco store and, together with the proposed amendment, broaden the product range to which children under the age of 18 cannot in any case obtain, since, as we have said before, they cannot even enter the tobacco store under parental supervision. And it's not realistic to get used to smoking by buying a BKV ticket at the tobacco store. In addition, the amendment amends the method for determining the population that is essentially determining the number of concession entitlements that can be allocated. True, life has shown that it is not lifelike for two thousand inhabitants, but for three thousand inhabitants, to create national tobacco shops in each settlement, in view of the fact that the population supports this. I note that if the number of smokers is radically reduced as a result of our measures, this number should continue to increase, as less and less national tobacco shops would be needed if necessary. [[19.30]] As we have repeatedly said, the law itself and the amendment of the law are about reducing smoking and protecting health, so our priority was not essentially to create jobs for tobacco shopkeepers, but rather to reduce access to tobacco and smoking. As I said earlier, there are countries where they want to ban smoking throughout the country. Job creation is probably not the main objective in this case either, but the protection of the health of the population. And who makes 50 billion in the budget, for example, in relation to black trade, I would like to say that at least that much money is needed in health care, if not more, in order to prevent the harmful effects of smoking among the population and to cure it in health institutions. I believe that basically the aim remains to reduce health protection and underage smoking. Clarifications concerning applications and cases of termination of entitlement also call for us to adapt to life-like cases. As I have already said, unfortunately, there have already been several cases in the NFM when the concession holder passed away, and just in order to ensure that the family does not remain without a living, this law will allow the heirs, if any, to carry on the concession if they can make a living and the traffic data prove it. So this summarised amendment is in line with the government's position. Our main objective is to strengthen the economic position of retailers by expanding the product scope and reducing the number of allocated entitlements in proportion to the number of inhabitants. Dear Parliament, Thank you, Members and ladies, for helping with this amendment proposal, expressing your support on the committee, making explicit comments. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the summary amendment as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-225	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health and health insurance legislation and the discussion of the summarised amendments follow up. The submission was made in T/2123. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Welfare as a designated committee T/1223/10. and T/2123/11. was given to them. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/2123/14. T/2123/15. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-226	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2123 on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws. Bill No. 1. In the context of the bill, it should also be stressed that health care is a complex, diverse system where changes can be made in several sub-areas, with the simultaneous amendment of a number of laws. In recent years, a number of important decisions have been taken to establish a system of equal access for the same purposes and to operate it at the highest possible level. The proposal was made with these objectives in mind and sets out a concept that summarises what will be done in the coming period. The amendments tabled by the Welfare Committee have been received and given the above-mentioned complexity of the proposal, it has given us the opportunity to raise several questions before our committee. In the current debate, it was confirmed that a government regulation on resident education and its renewal is under preparation, the legal basis of which is essential. The necessary consultations were carried out prior to the regulation. The aim is also clear with the regulation: the enormous burden currently associated with the employment of residents must be regulated, and it must continue to be ensured that all young doctors in Hungary can participate in a scholarship system. It has also become clear that the pharmaceutical authority itself will be entitled to block websites advertising fake medicines and counterfeits, and this will provide a much more flexible, much faster and more efficient tool. I should also mention the opinion on designer drugs raised in the debate. It is important to point out that the proposal for a regulation is essentially based on standard formulas. At the same time, a government decree is being drawn up to add nearly 40 additional psychotropic substances to the list. The aim of the amendment is also to bring legislation from a government regulation level to a ministerial level, which also means speeding up the system. Following the end of the debate, the Legislative Committee supported the proposals for amendment in the background and expressed an intention to make further amendments. Finally, the Legislative Committee decided on the summary amendment proposal and the summary report, which was adopted by 20 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-227	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The minority opinion of the Legislative Committee, which was delivered and outlined at the meeting on 11 December 2014, consists of those opinions. But allow me to draw the attention of the audience and the general public to the nature of such a legislative committee meeting before I present the minority opinion, and also at the end of the session, because this was a phenomenon that was experienced practically throughout the year, and especially in this legislation, it was explicit. This session of the Legislative Committee was a six-hour meeting, and at the end of the six-hour session we discussed this bill, during which the otherwise populous camp of the Legislative Committee had already been present in a well-off number. In addition to the fact that, after a tiring debate, this took place as a conclusion, as did the original proposal before this House, which also lasted overnight, the accelerated pace that the opposition had always spoken about, that we had received all the amendments that had to be prepared for the next day's session at about 10:45 p.m. the night before. These amendments, by the Committee on Welfare, were extensive and not only legal, but also substantive amendments, so it was quite difficult to prepare for them, because it was only possible to respond and prepare for them for one night. I think that if we are talking about thoughtful and prudent legislation, it is not, and it is a little unworthy, even if we are talking about a salad law, a medical salad law. It is not by accident that issues have been formulated at the committee meeting, which can essentially be summarised in five points and which form the frame of the minority opinion. The first was the one that was completely new and came to the Legislative Committee with an amended text, and this was the wording of the new on-call and over-work rules concerning residents and residents. In the past, there was little evidence of this in the basic bill, but there was a much more extensive regulation here, which is remarkable in that it really makes the obligations and opportunities of residents transparent, and, if you like, pours cleaner water into the resident's on-call rules as to the ways in which the employer can employ them, in what hours and in what positions. However, we also need to talk about a notable circumstance here, namely that a lot of hospitals - and health politicians, I'm sure, are aware of this - often override their duties by being residents and doing most of the work, so to speak, the lion's share. [[19.40]] Thus, it seems that this cleaning, transparency, might introduce a narrowing of the system that may cause problems in some places or problems in the on-call system. It is enough to think of the last case of Eger, where the doctors themselves, the doctors working in the emergency room, said that in addition to the practitioners of emergency medicine and other specialised specialists, many times in the case of residents, the on-call was at all operational. It seems that if we limit their on-call system - by the way, in a legitimate interest, since it is not possible to overwork young men and young ladies from student medical students who have recently become doctors - I think that we should also pay attention to the fact that this will be a sharp change and that it can cause certain supply problems. But in the context of the minority opinion, what could be said, then, is that Jobbik can view it as its own pride, because we pointed in that direction, and in the debate we also asked the government to make the online inaccessible to counterfeit illegal medicines a little bit more circumscribed, be a little more applicable. There has been a purification in this, and it seems that a rule that is much more effective than the original proposal has been put in place. However, we are still expressing our criticisms that, overall, in all these online and electronic unreachabilitys, there are still very few State instruments against the instruments on the other side. So you have to think about a continuous innovation that can be shot down much faster - in a gown - by sites where they appear and thus limit such otherwise extremely harmful activity. But it has been similarly formulated and we also welcome the enlargement, but it is not enough to expand the so-called list A, psychoactive substances. Here, in essence, we expanded the bill with three new compounds and three new substances. Obviously, it shows here that there are also substances among them, such as AB-CHMINACA and 25l-NBOMe, which are also called Buddi- or Kimbi-5, which are already known to have several variants which are also not included in the new list. So basically, we need a constantly expanding list, which should be expanded almost day by day. There are places where these materials appear day by day, and there is an open discussion among Internet users about what it was used for, or what it is used in, medically simulating, obviously at home, under non-sterile conditions. So very much attention must also be paid to this, and an even more oiled system must be developed in this. The scope of so-called "bianko powers" was also mentioned, which consisted of leaving an open question to the level of law to be adopted or to be adopted in many places. We've been discussing the residency issue, the residency decree. These may need to be cut back a little, and we will also have to look carefully at the next legislation in the coming year, and we should always be careful about these open spaces. The other one, which may not have been formulated, but I had my own amendment, is the rule concerning chambers. There we left a completely open question so that a much simpler, smoother second round could be defined as the validity threshold at the holding of the repeated general meeting. I thought that there was a need for a limit, because if we do not leave a threshold of validity at any second repeat round, then we will basically develop the interest of the Chamber on the part of the doctors, and virtually lose the interest of doctors in the Chamber, because the Chamber will be able to produce the election of officials at a repeated assembly with almost a nominal participation. So, overall, they were said, and on this basis the minority opinion was formed before the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-229	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Gábor Zombor, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. The time frame available is 10 minutes overall, which also applies to the closing point. [[For signal:]] If later, then of course. We will now continue with the Commission's speeches. I give the floor to Ms Bene Ildikó, rapporteur of the Committee, on behalf of the People's Welfare Committee, within a six-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-230	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before the Committee on Welfare as a designated committee, T/2123. The detailed discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 was conducted as required. On behalf of the Ministry of Human Resources, the Secretary of State, Mr Gábor Zombor, presented the government's position on each of the amendments. In addition to expressing support for individual amendments, the Secretary of State gave a detailed presentation on their eligibility and possible non-subsidisation. A total of eight amendments were tabled to the bill. Mr State Secretary said why individual amendments could not be supported by the government, for example, some proposals were not coherent with the law, controversial or otherwise resolved on the subject. The Committee held a meeting to discuss the Committee's own intention to amend it. The draft amendment was sent to the members of the committee earlier, and the amendment package was also discussed and decided. No fellow Member has indicated that we should vote separately on certain points in the package of proposals. My fellow Members and I voted in favour of adopting the report on the detailed debate, which included the recording of the committee's previous decisions and in order to ensure that the bill complies with the House Rule 44. § 1 was required to submit an amendment, which was included in the Committee's proposal to close a detailed debate. We have decided on the above, and the report on the detailed debate has been adopted with 9 votes in favour and 4 negative votes in favour. I think it is important to mention that the bill and the Commission's adopted amending proposal covered a number of outstanding health issues. Among other things, without the need for completeness: with regard to the regulation of basic supply, it should be pointed out that the provisions are intended to better protect the general practitioner at the time of contract; as my fellow Members have said, 39 new psychoactive substances have been added to the list of psychotropic substances under the pharmaceutical law, and amendments have been made to the Health Insurance Act in order to separate public and private services. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-231	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who wishes to present the minority opinion of the committee within a three-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say the same here, as my better fellow Member, that we also opposed at the committee meeting that we had received more than 40 pages of material before the day of the committee meeting, and that on Monday evening we had been here long enough to complain that it was not possible to prepare normally for an important legislative amendment the next day; at least we said that anyone who works fairly could not accept it. In many cases, changes have meant technical changes, but this is not always clear. Several parameters of sickness allowance, ged and pregnancy-bed allowance are modified. Pregnancy-bed benefits are renamed for baby care. The provisions concerning cash benefits include amendments which affect the rules on which benefits are based, so that they can affect their level. However, the proposal does not show how these measures will affect the level of benefits, how they affect the income situation of the right holders. It should be noted that the proposal contains a number of minor amendments which ultimately serve to reduce expenditure to the detriment of the right holders. The possibility of reimbursing benefits is a particularly serious measure. A minor change is also beneficial for those affected. It can also be concluded that the application for family benefits, the processing of data in different bodies - OEP, MAK - are still not simplified in order to reduce the amount of paperwork for parents. I would like to highlight three amendments here. Retrospective benefits are modified; we have requested that this be withdrawn. The OEP, MÁK data management; here we wanted to make it customer-friendly, family-friendly, and that is what the government is trying to do. We have proposed a regulation on pregnancy and child-bearing benefits and child-care rights, and we have tabled an amendment to this. Of course, our amendments were voted out in the Welfare Committee, just like in the other committees. In essence, we would like to ask the government to pay attention to the fact that next time we will actually be able to get these materials in time and to prepare as much as possible for these committee meetings. Thank you very much. [[19.50]]
u2014-12-15-233	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman György Lukács, Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-15-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I would pick up where I left off, by the way, by skipping that otherwise extremely disturbing fact from the committee - and perhaps I didn't say that - that this material came from the Welfare Committee to the Legislative Committee, even though we saw the amendments and the bulk of it, but they were not yet available in the People's Welfare Committee. So the record was not available until then, and indeed, when one prepares for what comes up, at least the words that were said there - as I recall - may have been present, may have been spoken by the Secretary of State - can be heard or seen in writing. For many times, it is not necessarily possible to rely on the memory of our fellow Members, since their heads are neither bald nor able to remember everything that is said. That's why we have the minutes. So, in the absence of a protocol, we had to learn about this material, which, by the way, is disturbing even in my previous profession, in so far as a lawyer does not go to any procedural act or any trial without reading the minutes, always what happened before, what has already been said in the case, what was said in this case before the committee, is worth getting to know. It was therefore very difficult to decide or even know the opinion of the other side without this knowledge, since it is not in the Committee on Legislative Affairs to be there. Obviously, there are always the Ministry there, but often we argue only about legal matters in the Legislative Committee, so it would be a matter of our own, that, in addition to the timely amendments, the committee meetings should follow each other in such a way that, if possible, the minutes can be made available, so that they have something to work with and prepare for the Members. The other is to talk a little bit about my own amendments, and I have already touched on it, and I will not tell you anything new, that none of my amendments have been accepted by the Welfare Committee or any other committees. So here, continuing on to the Chamber of its own amendments, all we wanted was for the Chamber to have a very low number, a tenth validity threshold, in the repeated election of the Chamber. This is practically less than half of the previous validity threshold. I think it would have been appreciated that the Chamber, in its repeated election of its officials, would have linked the result to the achievement of a 10 per cent threshold, since what chamber operation it is, or what chamber conduct it may be, where even 10 per cent of the members are not present in the election of officials. This basically renders the operation of a chamber unimportant and empties the essence of the chamber operation. The only reason I know - and this is also about chamber operations - is that the bar of attorneys has rules that the second will be successful regardless of their presence. So basically we choose officials there, or even on such important issues, in the important issues of chamber life, where very few colleagues are represented. And I know from my own experience that it's going to evacuate the chamber. Chambers have a very important role to play in organizing the medical community, whether in professional work or in legislative work. The other was the amendment of the legal place for rescue. It was of a technical nature, because here it was said to the bill in Article 56. § 2 of the State Aid Guidelines provides that it decides on the need for rescue on the basis of a notification by law to the State Rescue Service. I thought that it was worth deleting the statutory announcement or the statutory words as a clause here, since the rescue service would have to deal with all the announcements and not deal with a specific regular notification, but would also give Absurdum announcements that they would go to the rescue worker and tell him that there are people in need of rescue, so the ambulance would have a supply obligation from this point forward. So, in essence, here is a legal rescue criterion, a very cold wording conflicts with the right to human life, and that is the point of ambulances being immediately available for these sudden events related to human life. I think this would have resulted in a little cleaning, but I accept that you may not be in favour of these cleaning now, but I believe that there is always room for such cleaning. I very much hope that he could only embezzle for some technical reason and not only because of the fact that the opposition does not usually accept or accept amendments at all recently. In addition, I do not wish to describe the merits of this bill, which was said in the general debate. The criticisms were also made. Perhaps one of the greatest criticisms, and I suggest that we take this to heart, in the area of health - what I have said - they feel that we have the authority of all parties to create a much more effective health care that is much better suited to people's needs. The opposition also has the intention of spending and will not hold back those horses. I am here encouraging my fellow Members and, above all, Fidesz colleagues to use this mandate, which is very rarely given here in this House, that all parties want to take this in the same direction and that all parties want to involve more resources. I know you always say that, of course, any number can be promised in health care, for example, what we would like to spend more on, but we do not say these criticisms unsubstantiatedly, but we put it next to where it can be taken from and where it can be transferred. And we always measure, for a purpose, in the utility system - and, where appropriate, I can talk about all the other opposition parties in the field of health - in a utility system, why we need more money for health care. So I propose this criticism for serious consideration, that you use this mandate, that you have the intention of creating a much more effective and more prosperous health care. I ask you to accept this and seize this authority. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-235	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-236	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to briefly state the position of the LMP on the bill and on the proposals for amendments, because we see that the amendments unfortunately do not affect the part on which we have expressed our concerns. This is the separation of private and public services, which leaves unsolved the problem of underfunded health care, the quality of care and the long waiting list. The amendment states that a healthcare provider with a financing contract may not charge a fee for a health service that can be used under compulsory health insurance. In practice, this means that if there is an excess operating or diagnostic capacity, it cannot be sold by the institution beyond the performance volume limit. It also means that partly public-funded private healthcare companies cannot provide pay-per-view services, so they are de facto removed from the financing of OEP. The biggest problem with this is that the patient will still not be insured, but the institution to which OEP pays all the amounts per month, from which it will have to provide care for the patients in the area, but also to provide no-one else. The institution can't have any extra income from this, i.e. it's worse financially. In the area of diagnostics, limited public capacities can lead to longer waiting lists. It is to be welcomed that the government is voting alongside the solidarity-based and compulsory social security system, as has been said in the debate. We also agree that the process in the Hungarian health system has become worrying, which creates an unclear situation through public and private health mixing. But to do so, it must be added that the situation is due to underfunded health care, because hospitals have been forced into a situation where private resources are increasingly involved. Today, the government does not provide enough resources to make better use of institutions' capacities while patients are lining up for care. As one health expert put it, a perverted incentive system has emerged in health care. By reducing public funding, hospitals are increasingly interested in letting private operators in and directing patients to pay services. In fact, this system is wrong, because although waiting lists are basically not bigger because of paying patients, because they use the same resources - the same nurse, doctor, medicine, bandages - in practice it really happens that the OEP patient sees the damage. The correct answer to this current bad system is not what the government gives, and what seems to eliminate these in-house differences and tensions by shifting paying patients into separate buildings. [[20.00]] We should find a solution to this situation that will provide patients, try to compensate for their chances of recovery. The separation of public and private services can only take place without prejudice to patients' interests. This would require public institutions to have the opportunity to provide private services until the government provides sufficient resources to carry out their public tasks. If this does not happen, the level of care will continue to deteriorate, waiting lists will be even longer, private service providers will absorb the workforce, the shortage of professionals in public care will increase; inequality will increase, and overall, in terms of the overall population, the country will perform worse in all major disease indicators. There is no response from the government, so we can't support this amendment with a calm heart. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2014-12-15-237	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Gábor Zombor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-15-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank you for the specific professional contributions and the style in which this law is being negotiated. Perhaps, in addition to the many, many amendments, they have noticed the intention that, in substance, the proposals for amendments or comments which were made in the general debate or even in the subsequent meetings of the representatives, most of which are included in the package of amendments to the Committee on Welfare. For the sake of clarity only, all rules on cash benefits that would have resulted in some kind of tightening up have been removed from the Commission's amendment proposals and it must be said that there will certainly not be a disadvantage for insured persons in the payment of cash benefits. It was also said in the general debate that the reporting obligation would be one-way, that the different revenues would be subject to a single rule, so that the income on which the payment of the benefit would be based would be closer to regular and non-regular income and the current financial situation. It has been mentioned that right holders of copyright revenue should not suffer any harm. Therefore, the committee has also been amended here, and according to the proposal, those who have previously obtained a remuneration from copyright can, of course, receive this in addition to cash benefits. This retrospective legislation, or, as the Member mentioned, that a person who took care without a legal basis could be in a more difficult situation retroactively, has been the case in the past, and there is no new, particularly large, change in this. Here the Commission's proposal has even made so many amendments that it has maximized the scale of living that can be affected by a correction. What has been said about the minority opinion, allow me to respond to it in a few sentences, to changes affecting residents. We are in constant consultation, and I believe that with this law and the Government Regulation, a very positive and very novel process has started and I believe that a very, very positive health process has started, and that this will be the conclusion of the adoption of this law and the adoption of the Government Regulation. We are on a whole new level with young doctors, and we are fully partners in the negotiations and we are negotiating as equal partners. And that's right, we are also trying to free them from all the negative effects in law that make them hate specialist education or the experiences of Hungarian health care during this period; and we would also like to strengthen themselves so that they can play a kind of interest protection role both in training, qualification of training and preparation of training. The criticism that sometimes relates to leave, that they are not really considered partners and adults, I think that these laws will also include the fact that this is a serious and feasible process. With regard to the online ban on counterfeit medicines: the amendment accelerates this option. Of course, this is a fight that can be started and that forces must continue to be developed and constantly developed. I could give you examples of this, even if I wanted to change it to the fight with psychotropic substances, when we're always trying to discover them and immediately disable them in the fastest way possible. I would like to point out here that this legislation is taking place on several fronts, because there are provisions in the law itself. There is a government decree that is currently running in the conciliation system, where nearly 40 additional materials can be expected to be added, and it is perhaps important to mention that in the legislative amendment itself, the current amendment package will bring the possibility of being on the list to a ministerial level. So this means that in a much shorter time than before, actually within a few days of discovery or detection, the current designer drug can be added to the list. The Bianco Powers: I do not see too many Bianko authorizations in this law, because, as you can see, and will appear in the Gazette, the enforcement work will continue to take place. I would like to mention to Mr Luke his amendment to the Chambers. I also said that I had no problem with the amendment proposal, only that we supported the proposal requested by the chambers, and that it came in, and there was consensus in this. I think that there is a very rare time when we can reach consensus and this is not worth kicking. And on the issue of rescue: we also fought with lawyers here, and I was not opposed to taking the position that Congressman said, but I was convinced that it would be a problem of coherence, because there are also aspects of the announcement in Ptk. and Btk. - so the false call, the deception, the fraud and the rest - that is why I was forced to accept that. [[20.10]] I would also like to say to Mr Ikotity that the definition of free capacity is not part of this law, it must be determined by the GYEMSZI and the successor organization of GYEMSZI in the hospital. Therefore, this should not be defined in such a level of legislation. And that's what we're about to do, so I'm sure you'll find different materials in this. Thank you again, everyone, for your cooperation, and I trust that you will be able to support this amendment and the entire legislative package. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/2085. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Culture T/2085/37. and T/2085/38. was given to them. T/2085/42. T/2085/43. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I will ask if one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. A total of 15 minutes would be available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion, but since no minority has applied, I will give the floor to László Kucsák, the rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-240	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/2085 at its meeting on 12 December 2014. CXC 2011 on national public education. It submitted a bill amending the law and 20 amendments and a summary report summing up 20 yes, 6 no and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the proposals of the Committee on Culture, as corrected by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, on the one hand, and the Legislative Committee's own motion on the other. As a result of the amendments, the House can adopt a better, more precise, clearer norm than the proposed bill. For example, the amendment makes it clear that only the municipal-owned infrastructure already involved in the performance of public education tasks has the right to use and trust the educational office to carry out the pedagogical professional services tasks and cannot unilaterally claim additional municipal-owned properties. Instead of local authorities, it should be referred to local authorities, because some of the pedagogical institutions currently in operation operate in county municipality-owned real estate, given that prior to 2012, the provision of pedagogical professional services by county municipalities was a mandatory task. The largest press coverage and opposition attack is under Article 94 of the Public Education Act. § 4 was granted an amendment, so much so that the MSZP proposed the abolition of the proposal before the Legislative Committee, which was not supported by the committee. In line with the proposal of the Anti-Segregation Round Table on the previous day, the Legislative Committee proposed that the Government be empowered to adopt the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities for the organisation of religious, philosophical and ethnic education in schools. Law No. 28 It shall lay down its specific conditions for the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of this Article, in particular with regard to the prohibition of unlawful separation, by decree. The amendment further expresses and confirms the legislative intention that the government will have to regulate the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities in the implementing regulation on the basis of this empowering provision, subject to the prohibition of unlawful separation. Law No. 28 § 2 specific conditions. As the secretary of state confirmed at the committee meeting, this amendment is precisely about creating the possibility of procedural issues, the way of enrollment, the way in which information is provided, the declaration of parenthood and other cases relating to the choice of school are set out in Article 28 of the Law on equal treatment. It shall specify in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. It's not a political issue, it's a matter of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to consider what has been said in support of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-241	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Dr. Judit Bertalan, Secretary of State, if she wishes to speak now or at a later stage in the debate. [[Mrs. Czunyi Dr. Judit Bertalan: In the end.]] I would like to inform you, Madam Secretary, that you will have a total timeframe of 10 minutes. Dear Parliament, Only a minority opinion was formulated in the designated Cultural Committee. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró in a three-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education discussed the proposal at its meeting on 2 December and the decision on the amendments was also taken at this meeting. It then decided to submit the report with 9 yes, 1 no and 2 abstentions and to support the Commission's amendment. The criticism of the remaining opposition representatives in the minority can be grouped around different subjects. One of these is an amendment to the legislation on the National Teacher Faculty, which can be seen in this Act. In this respect, opposition representatives objected to the fact that the internal organisation tasks of the National Pedagogical Faculty are also regulated by law, so they do not grant this institution adequate freedom in this respect. In this respect, another criticism was raised that the tasks and rights of the National Pedagogical Faculty should be listed in law and not referred to the level of regulation. The minority opinions on the National Teacher's Faculty were mostly grouped around these subjects. As Congressman Kucsák has said, like the Legislative Committee, the most easiest debate here has been triggered by the empowering provision which gives the government the right to establish a regulation on the basis of the Equal Opportunities Act. I will also present the minority opinion here by agreeing with the majority opinion myself, but it was representatives of the Együtt-PM and MSZP who saw that this measure allowed segregation in education and therefore did not support it. While both the pro-government representatives and the better Member argued that, since this gives rise to a regulation, which must take place in the spirit of the law, this does not give rise to a breach of the law. Mr Szabolcs Szabó, on behalf of the Együtt-PM, explained that this explanation was not satisfactory and therefore did not support this amendment. Just like Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP. Following this debate, the Committee presented its report and the Commission's amendment proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2014-12-15-243	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up, Mr Gábor Törő, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman. [[20.20]]
u2014-12-15-244	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The most important issue at the Legislative Committee was equal opportunities in schools and segregation. The parties agree that integration, especially Roma integration, is a tool for social inclusion. There is also a consensus that it is time to remove the ideological, politicised approaches that have hindered it over the last two and a half decades rather than serve successful and peaceful Roma integration and catching up. The fact that the attempts to integrate violently on the left have not resulted in results, not by Fidesz, but by drawing a balance, was self-critically established by the left-wing politicians and the professional moonyard. First of all, we must separate geographically or otherwise distinct lifestyles from social exclusion. Arbitrary mixing of geographical or voluntary separation with exclusion based on political calculations has strengthened only the opposition of social groups from left-wing governance starting in 2002. Remember, that's when Hungarian society, the stigma of teachers, and the qualification of racist before the country-world began. Since then, significant damage has been caused to the country's image abroad. This was despite the fact that while there were institutions that left-wing politicians were midwives and only Roma children were there, they never thought that this was social exclusion and that no lawsuits had been initiated. It's enough to think of the best-known Gandhi High School, but the line is far from over. It is wrong to think that the successful incorporation of Roma into the fabric of society is a purely administrative issue, legal guarantees and, of course, lawsuits. The first failure of many Roma children is to enter a community, to be in a community that rejects because the Roma child does not have the successful integration, socialisation and cultural precondition. Therefore, instead of short-sighted, administrative, violent, litigation roads, it is necessary to prepare the Roma child in the preschooler's local programmes so that his early encounters with the majority society are not about failures, opposition, but about success and acceptance of each other. It's in our best interest. The government's ambition in the bill is a servant of this purpose. On the other hand, the issue must be created in order to reduce the situations resulting in spontaneous segregation. We are thinking of the phenomenon of a social parent taking his child to a kindergarten or school if he does not see the calm and secure development of his child, if, in this integration process, society, education policy does not build on volunteering, but uses legal coercive instruments. No parent is expected to make serious concessions on the development of his or her child or on his or her career in education for higher social goals, but there are appropriate programmes to ensure active support for the social majority. Not only has Fidesz been calling attention to the dangers of intervention called purely legal coercive integration, but also experts from left-wing governments since the Left decided to use compulsions instead of ensuring the professional conditions of volunteering. The coordination of considerations and interests from all responsible social and political actors should be considered together rather than the open accusations and litigation of the Balliber. It should also be noted here that the issues of equal opportunities and equal treatment affect other groups of society in different sections, and cannot be reduced simply to the problem of Roma integration, which is undoubtedly important. When interpreting the bill, this was not mentioned in the committee, but it would not be good for these aspects to be put behind political thinking, because it is a difference of chance and a disadvantage. The opposition should therefore move away from the point of view of these issues merely on the basis of Roma integration, equal opportunities and equal treatment for the Roma, as this will put others, such as other break-up groups, in the background. Through amending proposals, we believe that we have succeeded in taking an effective step towards the precise delineation of the tasks of KLIK's maintainers and local authorities' operators. We hope that by adopting the bill, it will be clear which tasks and costs the school maintainer and the operator will bear. It is thus hoped that the debates between the parties on certain schools will settle. I see these two aspects as the most important element of the summarised amendment proposal, which also has a number of issues that require further reflection and a task to be solved. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-245	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-246	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As we have already said in the debate, this bill solves or tries to remedy problems, a significant part of which would not exist if you had not touched the transformation of public education in this way. Let us consider some of these problems, since we were already in the school segregation, let us continue here. Both the profession and the public are quite united in judging the segregation of schools, in condemning school segregation and fighting all forms of segregation. I don't think there's a debate in this, either between the MSZP or the government side. The debate is about what this bill has done in this area. We believe that it contained a pass that gave us the opportunity to apply the segregation rules flexibly and that we tabled an amendment so that this would not happen. Not only did we think of this, but a number of civil society organisations that are active in this area, and which, like the MSZP, had the same opinion. Therefore, not only did this kind of legislative intention go against the MSZP, but also the opinion of the civil sector, a significant part of those who deal with it. At this point, the government has changed a little bit, perhaps it has seen its previous error, but we believe that the law should not be softened in the interpretation of school segregation; it should not be given an opportunity to interpret it softerly, because, as everyone actually agrees, it is necessary to fight against all forms of school segregation. The second is the issue of early school leaving. You have reduced the age limit for compulsory education from 18 to 16 years of age. When you are confronted with this, you are constantly saying that there are many other countries, where the age limit for compulsory education is 16 or even lower, but you are less able to give an example of which countries have reduced schooling obligations, which countries have had the tendency over the last few decades to reduce schooling obligations. I don't think they can say that kind of country. They can't because they know elsewhere that when they reduce access to education, knowledge, they actually reduce social opportunities, they reduce the chances of children who have school the only way to learn. But they continued this destruction when the mandatory employment of child protection officers was abolished or the youth protection signalling system was destroyed. This has resulted in a unique increase in the percentage of early school leavers in the EU. This was the result of an extremely conscious or, if you like, highly effective, aggressive policy against equal opportunities. [[20.30]] All the elements of your actions have caused early school leaving to rise in Hungary; unfortunately, that is a fact. Compared to this, I can say that the elements that introduce new definitions in the law in order to reduce early school leaving are, I think, even if one can say, well-meaning directions, but they remain ineffective if we do not face the basic problem, if we do not face the problem of building the signalling system, that is, that at the moment this signalling system is not working and if we do not face the need to increase the lower limit of the school obligation. This is also a cautious suggestion that the obligation to study will increase from the age of 16 to the end of the academic year when the person reaches the age of 16. This is a small increase, and I think that we still need a significant shift from here. Similar problems have been caused by school nationalization. An extremely distorted system has been created that is incapable of displaying both local needs and effective education management. It is a good feature of this situation that the KLIK's previous screening - according to the news - has produced shocking results, but we can't even know this screening in its full light, in its full publicity, because it has been classified by your government commissioner, so obviously it wasn't some sort of opposition agent that was installed here, and your man has done a screening of the exact results of which we still don't know anything. But this chaos, which is here, and you are trying to overcome this chaos in re-destructing the concept of the operator, is not the problem, but that is obviously not the point in this matter, it is not the problem that you have defined one or two concepts in the wrong way, this system is already wrong. In several cases, KLIK is late with its overhead payment, there was a school where the phone was turned off for days, and most of the educational content that was created locally, because of the central withdrawal, is practically the past. The lack of shelter in kindergartens and crèches has also persisted in public education. Compared to this, one of the few positive points of the bill is the creation of a multipurpose institution in kindergarten-cradles. This is a long-standing concept in the profession, with this in effect, I think that it is possible to agree here, I think it is a logical answer, but it is feared that this will not solve the problem in many places, but it is certainly a forward-looking measure. You can say it's not enough, it's one of what we think is a good step in the right direction. There's a problem with building a school inspector's system. Compared to this, the rules on public education experts and consultants are therefore facilitated, and it is generally true in this bill that any obstacles faced by the legislator in the field of public education are softened by the law, such as the employment of unskilled teachers. They destroyed the system of reconciliation and created the National Teachers' Faculty for greater control of teachers. The rule also contains an easing, trying to further define what this National Pedagogist Faculty is, however, a measurable result - let us be fair about the National Pedagogist Faculty - has happened once since the existence of the National Pedagogist Faculty, and that president has been able to comment on a specific piece of legislation for exactly one time since the existence of the National Pedagogist Faculty, but this particular statement is also very interesting, because I have only found the statement of President in the press, but not on the website of the Faculty itself. I think that if we set up such an organisation, which, in principle, brings together and represents teachers, it would be right to expect him to give up-to-date opinions on legislation affecting teachers. However, it can be said similarly in virtually all the areas that this bill has touched upon, that it is the admission and intention to correct failures that have not been previously; for example, in relation to the benefits for school directors, legislation, which is obviously a reaction to the fact that there have never been so few school principals as in recent school years. However, we also have a number of unsolved tasks ahead of us, such as improving the situation of non-educator civil servants or insufficient public education hours in vocational training, and these could still be classified. I think that with this amending package there is nothing more to do than to rephrase it completely with the law itself. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-15-247	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. I would like to remind you that the bill is being discussed as a minority agenda by the Parliament, so I now give the floor to the Slovenian speaker, Erika Kissné Köles, who speaks the first sentences of her speech in her mother tongue. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-248	Thank you for the floor. Spoštovani Gospod Predsedni! Cenjeni Državni Zbor! Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 13 indigenous ethnic communities living in Hungary still strive to have their offspring there among future generations. Among other things, this is a strong intention of effective management of national education and education. The main aim of national minority education is to learn the language of a particular nationality, to learn in the language of a given nationality, to learn about the cultural, intellectual and material heritage of nationality, to cherish, preserve and perpetuate its traditions, to establish the right perception of nationality and nationality. In addition, he also teaches ethnic students about loyalty and commitment to Hungary's society, their rights and obligations as Hungarian citizens. The legal changes affecting the existence and functioning of ethnic education and education institutions, pedagogical professional services, as well as ethnic educators should not be outside the interest of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. This is the explanation for the fact that our committee initiated the T/2085 initiative by the Government of Hungary. the declaration of nationality of a bill submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. The bill has been discussed in detail at all points, and its substantive examination has also been carried out by members of the Public Education and Culture Sub-Committee with the assistance of the Deputy State Secretary for Public Education and the Head of the Public Education Management Department. However, due to our lack of practice, we were late to the detailed discussion of the bill, so we could not participate directly in it. The proposed amendment 1. Article 4 (4) of the Act limits the concept of institution restructuring, and consequently, in the case of institutions carrying out national minority education tasks, national authorities would be entitled to a right of agreement in the context of the reorganisation of the institution. We have found this right to be adversely affected by this change. In addition, national education and education institutions need pedagogical professional service providers. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary would consider it appropriate to provide pedagogical professional services through institutions that are recognised for nationalities. We will maintain this ambition unchanged, we will re-assess such needs, we will turn our further proposals to the professional wallet in the future. The present bill is set out in Article 5. Paragraph 2 of the Act does not extend the possibility of using pedagogical professional services in a textual manner to institutions maintained by national authorities. The free use of pedagogical professional services would continue to be seen as fair to extend to national educational institutions, in addition to religious and private education institutions, especially those whose maintainer has concluded a public education agreement or is in agreement with the Minister of Education, the Minister of Human Resources. The proposed amendment to the Act is set out in Article 24 (1). In § 3, it provides for the application of the Code of Ethics to national and municipal minority institutions, recommends it to church maintainers, but does not mention the institutions operating in the maintenance of national minority self-governments. According to the author's explanation, the institutions with a municipal reserve fall within the scope of the institutions maintained by the national authorities, since the concept of "government" covers settlement and minority self-governments. [[20.40]] In our view, it narrows the concept of institutional reorganization and, as a result, in the case of institutions carrying out the task of national education, national self-governments would be entitled to a right of agreement in the context of the reorganisation of the institution. We have found this right to be adversely affected by this change. In addition, national education and education institutions need pedagogical professional service providers. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary would consider it appropriate to provide pedagogical professional services through institutions that are recognised for nationalities. We will maintain this ambition unchanged, we will re-assess such needs, we will turn our further proposals to the professional wallet in the future. The present bill is set out in Article 5. Paragraph 2 of the Act does not extend the possibility of using pedagogical professional services in a textual manner to institutions maintained by national authorities. The free use of pedagogical professional services would continue to be seen as fair to extend to national educational institutions, in addition to religious and private education institutions, especially those whose maintainer has concluded a public education agreement or is in agreement with the Minister of Education, the Minister of Human Resources. The proposed amendment to the Act is set out in Article 24 (1). In § 3, it provides for the application of the Code of Ethics to national and municipal minority institutions, recommends it to church maintainers, but does not mention the institutions operating in the maintenance of national minority self-governments. According to the author's explanation, the institutions with a municipal reserve fall within the scope of the institutions maintained by the national authorities, since the concept of "government" covers settlement and minority self-governments.(20.40) This implies, however, that the application of the Code of Ethics must be extended to our institutions, but our committee has recommended that the institutions of nationality apply. The Committee on Culture of the Parliament discussed our amendments, and we regret that they were not supported by the members of the committee. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to allow effective education and education at all times, and if the need shows that disregarding our proposals for amendments will prevent it for some reason, please avoid them with further amendments. Thank you for listening, and I wish all members of the Government and Parliament peaceful, merry Christmas holidays and a successful 2015 year. Thank you very much. Hvala za posornost!
u2014-12-15-249	Thank you, Madam Speaker. On behalf of the Parliament, we express similar good wishes. Dear Parliament, Other speeches will now take place; first, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-250	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now come to the end of many amendments to the Public Education Act. This amendment also demonstrated how unpreparedly the public education system was reformed at the end of 2011 and how far the nationalised centralised school system has not been invented to date. It is clear that, even now, at the end of 2014, a basic element of the system is being carved, such as the concept of operation. Not only does the original amendment tabled change the definition and framework of the operation, but the parties to the amendment also want to change it. Legislation on the cornerstones of the school system has become very possible and idea-like not only in recent years, but we are still experiencing it. This whole amendment of the law is now all about another whittling, changing a fundamentally wrong concept over and over again. In addition to the continuous carvings, the whole process is characterised by a high degree of lack of transparency. They're still not talking to anyone. Unfortunately, we have become accustomed to the fact that they do not cooperate with professional actors or trade unions, but among other things, the National Teacher Faculty, which was set up for this purpose, has not been able to make government ideas known in advance. It's enough to think about the Pedagogical Faculty's protest this weekend. In addition to the lack of transparency, the haste has remained with us from the failed legislative practice of recent years. An example of urgency is that the Commission's amendment proposal and the summarised amendment proposal contain dozens of grammar and spelling corrections. Because of the great haste, the legislative proposals submitted do not fit in grammatically. I think that says a lot about the quality of legislation. The only reason why it would not come out of the sky as a lightning bolt is because if more people could look at it from among those involved and experts, these errors could be filtered out and proposals would not need to be amended. The important point of the bill was to supplement the Equal Treatment Act, more specifically to give the government a new right to establish a regulation. According to the LMP, this change is not necessary, and the semi-sentence amendment contained in the summarised amendment is not really of great importance. But in the end, let us say something positive: compared to the original proposal, the amendment was slightly improved. They do not seem to alleviate the employment conditions of pedagogical experts and consultants. Fortunately, the government is retiring and does not want to open the possibility for people who have been cut off from school practice to participate in various professional tasks. We're left with more stringent conditions of application. However, the relevant points of the original submission were justified by the government in such a way that the relaxation of the conditions is necessary to meet the needs of the specialist. What we don't understand is what made them change their minds now. Can't we talk about a lack of expertise? Or do you wish to alleviate this in another way? We await the reply of the representative of the government. In the proposals for amendments tabled and in the Commission's vote on them, there was, moreover, something encouraging. The members of the Fidesz faction finally dared to form their own opinions and go against the recommendations of the State Secretariat for Public Education. At last, we have not experienced what we have experienced over the past four years, many times gnashed, but in the end, they will vote for everything the Secretary of State has imagined. No misunderstanding, it was a matter of far less importance than before, but perhaps a hopeful start to a positive process. There may even be a risk that opposition proposals will be adopted in the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-251	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Márius Révész, Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-252	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will be very brief, and I would like to respond very briefly and gently to some critical comments so that I do not intensify the debate. Public reservation of schools. Let me say, fellow Members, that the situation in Hungary was precisely that schools in the poorest settlements could spend the least on education. If we look at the indicators between schools, we can see that Hungary is in a very bad position in this area. The government's ambitions are precisely to create a chance, which is what public reservation of schools is all about, from the age of three to kindergarten and full-day employment. A fellow Member also spoke about the obligation to teach. Again, I would like to point out that there is no connection to how many of you are going to graduate from school. Just under István Hiller's ministership, a survey was carried out, which showed that the 18-year-old age limit in skilled workers, one-third of the children did not finish, and half of the disadvantaged children. I don't know if you've seen a 17-year-old kid who can barely read or write, but if you think by law these kids can be forced to go to school, then I think you're wrong. Let's face it: all children in Hungary today, if they want to go to school and study, can go to school and learn. We provide all the conditions for this. But a 17-year-old can't be forced to do that. I think that by transforming the vocational training system, it will be noticeable within a year or two that more children will have qualifications. Segregation is a fog-scraping argument. By the way, we are committed to integration, and we believe in that, which is what many of our activities are about. But let me mention, at the TAB meeting, Member István Tukacs told me a story about the school in Huszártelep, when overworked and meaningless integration resulted in a worse situation than originally, as the Socialist MEP said. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-253	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-15-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am very sorry that the MSZP calls for segregation where it does not exist, and this law simply does not give us the opportunity to understand it now. It contains an authorisation clause, which concerns the creation of a regulation. The decree must be drawn up in the spirit of the law. The regulation must not be contrary to the law. This empowering provision does not repeal this passage of the Equal Opportunities Act, nor does it give the government the power to establish its detailed rules. This could have been understood without this addition being made. Now it seems to be the legislation that this passage refers to the paragraph of the Equal Opportunities Act that we are talking about, and then repeats once again that the prohibition of unlawful separation is particularly concerned with this regulation, which, by the way, is also subpoenaed in a paragraph. For the sake of the weaker, this bill will now include twice that there is no possibility of segregation. This is ensured by the Equal Treatment Act regardless of this regulation. That doesn't change now. I ask you very much not to discredit opposition criticism by saying things that are simply not true. We said at the committee meeting, the representatives of the Ministry, the pro-government representatives, and myself, that there is simply no mention of what you are talking about here. The age limit for compulsory education is also constantly referred to the House. It wasn't better when the school age was 18 years old. It is simply not possible to solve the issue of early school leaving or motivation for learning with this instrument. This is simply not an appropriate tool, not enough to get anyone to learn. [[20.50]] I also said it in the general debate, but I am forced to repeat that it can be an indication of the age of compulsory education. Therefore, I do not consider the age limit of 18 or 16 to be good, which Fidesz amends in this law until the end of the academic year, but is essentially linked to the age of 16. This is to say that the school system can be abandoned even when it is not possible to acquire a marketable profession. Me and the Jobbik think it's the wrong message. In the case of three-year vocational training, we would mark the age limit of 17 years, precisely the end of the school year in which the student reaches the age of 17, because this is the first time he can get a job without a repeat year, of course - and he can manage, or at least start working in, a job from which he can make a living. There has been no substantive consultation with either the Committee of Nationalities or the National Teacher Faculty. We had a committee meeting just the day before the day of the general debate, where we also hosted Mr Péter Horváth, President of the National Pedagogist Faculty, who reported at that meeting that they would go to the Ministry on the day of the general debate, so they were not asked about the passes that would otherwise affect them before the submission. Of course, we supported the amendments of the Committee on Nationalities on Jobbik's part, and if they continue to take such initiatives to the Committee on Culture, we naturally welcome them with thanks, and it is important that they also draw attention to those parts that concern the institutions that operate in the maintenance of nationality and clarify and clarify the regulation in their case. The issue of drop-out in addition to segregation, which comes to the fore in this bill, and it is indeed a very serious situation, as Márius Révész has just referred to, in particular, the vocational schools are indeed the types of institutions where this problem occurs in a mass. On the part of the MSZP we have heard the adjustment of the teaching obligation as a solution to this issue. I would now like to turn to the specific paragraph that constitutes the concept of a student at risk of dropping out of this law. It is important that they perceive this problem and try to answer it in some way, but I think that this paragraph introduced or intended to introduce is a rubber rule, and in many cases it can be unviable. The need for pedagogical action in a student feels that this does not necessarily mean that he should be considered vulnerable to early school leaving, that any family event may occur in his life, which makes it necessary for the teacher to pay more attention to him, motivate him, but does not necessarily reach the level that he should be regarded as at risk of dropping out. In the same way, if you make your average worse to the extent set by law, we also do not think that this would be appropriate to regulate this, since there are many reasons for this - even a school change, for example - which does not automatically imply that you would be a student at risk of dropping out. Already the amendment on the consultants, which was finally adopted and supported by the Committee on Culture, which I thank specifically, although it was also a pro-government amendment with the same content, I consider this to be a step forward, but I still cannot support the bill. I would also like to respond to Mr Ikotity's speech. In the previous term, it was also common in the Committee on Education that the positions of the pro-government representatives and the government did not agree on a lot of issues, which we witnessed at the Committee's meeting. We hope that the professional position will prevail later. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-255	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I am asking whether there is still a speaker on the agenda. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman György Szilágyi has spoken, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We also said at the Legislative Committee's meeting - and I would like to link here to my fellow Member's sentences - that a little bit of the rights defenders were on the other side of the horse. After all, as you said, Congresswoman, there is no regulation to override laws, so there is no question of segregation in the first place. But to talk about it here, and if someone had looked at the law, they would have clearly seen that the law is written black in white, for example, when segregation can be applied, for example, if the parent asked for it, with the consent of the parent. Now let's not go there - and there have been instances - because they said that poor Roma children will be distinguished here. Does that mean we think the parents of a Roma child are racist? So they're gonna be disqualified, they're gonna want segregation for their own child, because then they're gonna be racist, too? So we went to a level where we were already afraid of their own parents for Roma children. In my opinion, this is not appropriate, and we have said that we should not go overboard the horse, they want to protect those who do not need to be protected, because there is legislation on this matter, and the laws cannot be overwritten by a regulation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-257	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking whether there is still a need to speak within the given time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask Secretary Judit Czunyiné Bertalan if she wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2014-12-15-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the honor of discussing the amendment of the law on public education. I think that's enough attention for our children and for our schools, which is important for our common cause. Otherwise, the proposals for amendment and the debate on the Legislative Committee were an added value precisely because of the segregation phase, in which it appeared that in favour of integration, let us say, a position opinion was formulated. By the way, in agreement with the comments which I myself said on the Legislative Committee, that an enabling provision, especially if it involves the fact that it gives the right to clarify a regulation, should not be contrary to this law. I think that, in relation to an important and generally consensual social policy issue, some opposition parties are political, let's say, to quote my fellow MEP Révész, starting a fog sarcasm, which was suitable for a little bit both for schools and civil society organisations, who, with this important and non-negligible social responsibility, are dealing with school maintenance or, let's just say, social work that has led to the situation... I would just like to clarify, we agreed with the ministers at the meeting of the Anti-Segregation Round Table with the NGOs that they are guaranteeing... - after turning the content and meanings of this legal situation or proposed, they will rest if the government accepts this addition. This government intention was then transmitted, and we were able to incorporate it into the text of the law, thanks to the members and work of the Committee on Legislative Affairs. I am asking, in fact, for the respect of this agreement on the part of the opposition parties, especially those who have given rise to an opportunity and cause for causeless concern for civil society organisations who complement and support this work to a significant extent, which means the fight against segregation, from the social policy side and, above all, from the responsibility side. In many respects, both the general debate and the debate of the Legislative Committee have been repeated. If I may, I would like to highlight a few points. I do not answer the questions in which my MSZP fellow Member used the debate of the law to tell all the dreams that did not come true under the MSZP education government, which he is now trying to point out as a mistake at the policy of education that took the liberty of dealing with, among other things, the crimes committed by the socialists in the Hungarian school system. In this way, it is also such a tool that the State assumes responsibility for institution maintenance, so, by the way, quoting my fellow Member Révész, the responsibility and increased responsibility for ensuring that all children have equal access to knowledge and learning. It's ambitious, important, but it's a big task. I think that this public education law and the amendments to this Public Education Act are facing the future. [[21.00]] I do not mention the legislative history of what - let's just say - liberal and socialist education policy decisions have resulted in incorrect institutional maintenance models in today's institutional system, which led to the Hungarian school system where it was held in 2010. It is clear that we have offered an answer to the restructuring of the school system primarily from the side of creating opportunities for children. We obviously take responsibility for this. We want to give real answers within the school system, even if we are talking about school segregation. That is precisely why we have included this empowering provision, and we have proposed it from the side of public education because of segregation and the provision of anti-segregation opportunities. In the same way, we would like to respond in a system of institutions, for example, by compulsory kindergartening from three years, to prevent early school leaving or unqualified school leaving, by starting the preparation and strengthening of three-year-old children at conscious and basic competences level with professional kindergarten teachers in the institutional system. We do this for all the reasons that when the child enters the school-age age, the differences that are not due to origin, but, where appropriate, to the region or any other disadvantage, are reduced, and it is not enough for one year of pre-school entry to catch up or for the occupations of catching up. Preschooling is a real response both to compensation for disadvantages and to creating a chance. And it is also a real answer to the chance that the public education system will ensure, because of free textbook access and children's meals, all the issues that, because of segregation, should not only be treated as a Roma issue in public education as segregation or disadvantage avoidance or as an answer. This is in the interest of society as a whole and a responsibility of society as a whole. The regulation of the National Pedagogical Faculty and some technical regulations are necessary, even if my fellow Member Kiss feels that this may be a self confession. I believe that there is not only a proposal from the single institution to compensate for the kindergarten and cradle seats, but also this year the government has given us the opportunity to expand nursery seats, and I am sorry, it has provided this opportunity to give this obligation and this opportunity to children everywhere. School directors' class allowance is a clear misinterpretation of the legal situation. This is about - who has seen a school on the inside, he knows - that, for example, in the case of a mathematics or a Hungarian school principal, if we are living with a teacher's class discount, he cannot hold a class at all, so we push it out as much as is required in a course. Here an adaptation of the law is being made, which is also supported by the profession. As regards the proposals of the National Pedagogist Faculty, I would like to point out to Madam President that there is an amendment that she finds among the TAB modifiers, while reflecting the opinion and proposal of the National Pedagogist Faculty. So in the course of the negotiations, we managed to manage their proposals at a level that we were able to accept. On the issue of pedagogical professional services and more - I am speaking to Mrs Erika Kissné Köles - thank you very much for your cooperation. My colleagues and I have agreed to keep this topic open and to rethink it in the case of institutions maintained by national authorities. We asked for patience to deal with these issues with a complex consensus regulation on schools maintained by national governments in the opening of another law. Here, problems of interpretation arose due to the multiple maintenance, but now the committee of nationalities has also started working with the State Secretary, which, after the initial difficulties, appears in substance. I thank all of you for your views on the content of both the Committee on Culture and the Legislative Committee, and I would ask you to support the amendment of the National Public Education Act on the basis of the summarised amendments made by the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-259	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws in relation to the more efficient provision of national financial services and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The submission is T/2079. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2079/3. and T/2079/4. was given to them. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/2079/6. T/2079/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-260	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2079 amending certain laws in relation to the more efficient provision of national financial services. Bill No. 1. The submitted proposal gives the Hungarian State and the direct owned company the opportunity to exercise the right of purchase in respect of shares owned by minority owners, whether or not further influence is acquired in the target company. The amendment also provides the right to sell to minority owners in this case. The draft lays down clear, time-bound procedures, thus excluding any non-predictable discretion. At present, the Capital Markets Act allowed the possibility of crowding out only in the case of open public limited liability companies to owners with more than 90 per cent ownership. This is the option that the bill intends to extend to private limited liability companies and only in cases where this is justified by the strategic interest of the national economy. The proposal therefore fully complies with EU law and legislation. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, which was supported by 23 votes in favour, 8 against and 5 abstentions, with the exception of point 4, which was dealt with separately by point 1 of the Legislative Committee. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend further, which was supported by 23 votes in favour, 8 against and 6 abstentions. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 5 abstentions. I commend the bill to the attention of my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-261	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Árpád János Potápi, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur, or if he would like to express the Government's position at a later stage of the debate or during the closing term. [[Árpád János Potápi: Later.]] Mr. Secretary of State indicates that later. I would like to point out, Mr. Secretary, that you will have a period of 10 minutes at your disposal. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Dear Parliament, Mr Dénes Galambos, Fidesz Group, will be the first to take a speech. [[21.10]]
u2014-12-15-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The legislative proposal on the more efficient provision of national financial services also includes fine-tunings which will increase the efficiency of the domestic financial system and simplify the functioning of public bodies involved in economic development. Following the series of multi-round negotiations, we managed to achieve that our country will be the second largest beneficiary of the European Union budget for 2014-2020 on the basis of per capita grants. The proposal includes measures to make EU funds more effective for beneficiaries. As part of this, as the executive body of the Hungarian Development Bank, which is experienced in the development of business and in the allocation of financial instruments supported by the European Structural and Investment Fund, and which builds on serious network links in financial resources, it also carries out specific tasks imposed on it by the managing authorities. As stated in the general justification of the bill, the state's statutory public service mission, as well as its national strategy and role in creating and securing the conditions for each public service. It can carry out this task by effectively playing a strategic role. The strategic role of the national economy is linked to security of supply, the financing of universal services of fundamental importance governed by a separate Act. In this context, uniform ownership management and, in view of its aspects, the acquisition of minority ownership shares by the State, State and state-owned company will be justified in accordance with the legal procedure. The bill also includes additional measures to promote the long-term sustainability of the reduction of costs. This autumn, the government decided to set up a national public utility service provider, which will provide electricity, gas and district heating from 2015 onwards. The operation of the first national public utility service provider will essentially not be aimed at achieving profits, but at providing a secure and cheap service for the population and the economy. The summarised amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee mainly contains technical clarifications. Their adoption is important in order to create a legislative background that will create the possibility of improving the efficiency of the institutional system, which is directly or indirectly under the supervision of the Hungarian State, for financial and economic development purposes, which will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of our country. I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill after the amendments have been discussed. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-15-263	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-264	Mr President, Dear House, The amendments before us can be said to be of a basic technical nature, and in many cases there is also the possibility of improving language positioning errors. In itself, it is amazing that there was a change to the description of the Hungarian State that it was included both in the infra-tions of the, and the infra-, respectively. So it is a question of who has codified the basic version of this proposal. But perhaps we should talk about what we should vote on here later, or what we can decide on what decision situation we are facing. In essence, the proposal allows the MFB to acquire ownership in the Metropolitan Gas Works. But here we have to think about certain things; on the one hand, what is the point of this acquisition? I say that every state or greater role in strategic companies is justified if the appropriate value-for-value ratio is achieved and it would be best to look at a well-thought-out reprivatisation strategy, say, on the basis of a 10- to 15-year schedule, to anticipate what interests, in what ways, on what basis, on what basis, on what resources, the government wants to acquire various interests, to be more precisely: we are talking about the Hungarian state, because it is a series of tasks that are going through cycles. Such a reprivatisation strategy has not been completed despite our repeated requests. Let us add that, since not only weak but incredibly sinfully played out several strategic sectors in the 1990s, let us think about the duration of the Horn government, when, in practice, within two weeks, two entire sectors were able to be drummed for less than 10 percent of the GDP at that time, there are companies and companies operating in Western Europe on the other side of the buyer side, which is often a public background. So the game didn't run out at all to sit with them or at a negotiating table once, or to find those responsible for the signed contracts that weren't supposed to be signed at the time, as they provided these companies with guaranteed asset-related profits. It can be seen that the acquisition of MFB's ownership raises another very important issue that should be clarified. In the course of subsequent transactions, the MFB can at any time state that it does not disclose details of the various transactions by reference to bank secrets: As many professional sources say, this is one of the drivers; it would be appropriate to eliminate this doubt as unfounded. But what we can see is that we still cannot see the price, what estimates, what and how the Hungarian state wants to acquire, and without it, it is only in principle that it can bless a similar initiative. Once again, I could support this in principle, but only through a well-thought-out strategy. In the decision, there is a rather amazing wording that it is necessary to decide on the sale of the state-owned shares of Budapest Gas Works in order to ensure the security of public energy supply and to preserve the effects of the reduction in electricity in the long term. To mix the reduction of the rent here in such a way that no long-term strategy can be seen regarding... - that you want, let's say, the rest of our strategic companies to be reclaimed by the Hungarian state or by the government, what steps will you take to achieve this? I'll give you an example: Channel Operations. Or I could say another: there are still background institutions, background contracts, in terms of the LANGUAGE, that would at least need to be reviewed. So I cannot stress enough: until we see a reprivatisation strategy, we do not see a well-thought-out plan, we do not know what the government wants, what interests the Hungarian state can acquire. Thus, the question arises whether the MFB or other actors will, by reference to bank secrets, want to, or intend to hide any information or data relating to us in the future. Why do I ask that question so many times? There was such a long and ember debate before the Committee on Budgets in the previous term on how the government would buy back gas reservoirs and other additional stocks. What happened then? They asked us for a blank check, which was to separate a certain amount of money for the very important transaction. So I could really say that this is important, that's good, that's eligible. Then it turned out that between the valuation and the government's intention to buy, there was a threefold gap between the two values. So, according to the first version, they wanted to buy something back for three times as much as they did according to the expert estimate. We do not want to see any more such gaps, such threats, which is why we ask the representatives of the government to clarify these issues, because then it is only possible to make a responsible decision. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-265	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further speeches may be made. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2014-12-15-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I pushed the button a little late. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Postabank scandal, it is clear that significant public funds can be removed through the financial intermediary system, i.e. the banking system. Postabank consumed 177 billion forints of public money only during the Orbán-Torgyán government, but also under the Horn Cabinet it quickly consumed the forints. The total amount of state money spent on the bank exceeded HUF 300 billion. It's been nearly two decades, but the situation has hardly changed. Today, the execution of guarantees, capital increases, grants and payment obligations arising from loan guarantee transactions related to the operation of public financial institutions represents a direct loss to the central budget of HUF 50-80 billion per year. Only the state export-import bank will cost taxpayers HUF 43 billion in two years. In other words, the Hungarian government continues to spend taxpayers' money uncountedly in state-owned financial institutions, banks whose operations we hardly know anything about. As a result of these inaccessible processes, taxpayers' money sometimes seems hand-in-hand, going to dubious businesses, political lunar yards and financial adventurers. [[21.20]] In recent days, for example, the total number of abuses and violations of law has bankrupted Széchenyi Bank, named 49 percent by State-owned István Töröcskei, the recently resigned head of the State Debt Management Centre. Széchenyi Bank has grown from the Hungarian National Bank's growth loan programme to a bank with a balance sheet total of 50 billion out of 5 billion in just three years, and has loaned 1.1 billion forints on a failed project and a company that belongs to the interests of Gábor Princz, former CEO of Postabank. Meanwhile, at the highest political level, it was decided that the proportion of Hungarian ownership in the banking system should be above 50 percent, even 70 percent, whatever it takes. In this spirit, the savings cooperatives have been transformed with public participation, the public banks are getting bigger and more and more tasks, we are increasingly meeting with public capital increases and the state has purchased several large commercial banks. First, the largest Hungarian Commercial Bank, which has accumulated losses of HUF 433 billion over the four years, should be mentioned. Although we do not see the economic justification for the purchase of MKB, the motivation is understandable, since it is a large bank whose portfolio is full of commercial real estate. Before the real estate market recovers, this gives some people a good opportunity to raisin it for them. The government also bought back the well-functioning Budapest Bank, which in 1995 the predecessors privatized for virtually zero forints. Otherwise, Hungarian ownership in the banking system does not necessarily mean state property. The government and the central bank are thinking about a so-called national banking system. We have good reason to believe that large banks now nationalized would be privately owned within three years. In other words, we have reason to believe that the purpose of the establishment of the national banking system is merely to transfer the Hungarian banking system to the hands of close-to-government money people. But why do decision makers think that this will be good for the majority of people? The government argues for nationalisations that a domestic-owned banking system can be more stable, but that is not necessarily true. In Slovenia, where the entire banking system was national-owned, taxpayers will cost billions of euros to recapitalise the banking system. To sum up, as long as it is impossible to decide on hundreds of billions of states, there will be no substantial progress. Until MFB's operations and operations are transparent and public, we cannot support the involvement of the MFB in the use of EU funds, the achievement of an even greater financial exposure or the mitigation of conflict of interest rules. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-267	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-12-15-268	Mr President, Dear House, Since there is no substantive debate, I have to highlight a very important point that has been said, which is that - we are talking about a statement, not a fact - Hungary would be the second largest beneficiary of EU funds in the EU, in other respects. It deserves a long thought experiment, which I do not have time to explain now, and I have no opportunity to explain, but we have to say that we are still sorely and painfully lacking in an assessment of our membership in the European Union that would also clarify the negative effects of our membership. I claim that this is my own statement, that we are paying for membership of the European Union, so there are more negative sides than can be booked on the revenue side. At the same time, we also need to assess the availability, multiplier effect, of new, socially useful jobs in terms of funding from the EU. I do not want to bring up the clichéd examples, such as the dog-fitness center in Nógrád, the musician dairy, the wireless internet at the yellow bus stops, or bike routes in North-East Hungary where the bike was never left for three hours. But I have to say: we should look at the economic impact of these so-called investments at systemic level, whether they have a spread-over effect, whether they will create new Hungarian jobs and put suppliers in a position. So we are calling on the government to draw up an EU balance sheet again and for many times, because it would be much easier for the second largest beneficiary - I think - to back up a myth in some way. That leaves only one statement hanging in the air, which no statistics can support. I'd like to say one. From Hungary, multinational companies pump more than HUF 4,000 billion annually, i.e. four thousand billion, on untaxed IT system rental, rental of manufacturing technology and other items. These huge thousand billion dollars will not be included in the scope of public burdens. It's a data in a negative frying pan that can be used to weigh the amount of it coming here and how it's useful. At the same time, in order to assess, say, the acquisition of interests in front of us, or the transactions relating to the Budapest gas works, a national inventory of assets would also be sorely lacking. There has been some registration of state property in the previous term, but until there is a national inventory of assets, so we do not know whether the family silver with the quotation mark is there, what we need to manage, what we need to protect, it can be a truncated decision-making process for the acquisition and retention of strategic assets, because it lacks the thoughtful vision, the thoughtful strategic analysis without which - I repeat - it is very difficult to make similar decisions for a decade. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-269	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll give you the floor... one second, please. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Potápi in a ten-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-15-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me respond very briefly to the suggestions. Firstly, in the context of the amendment of the law, two amendments have been proposed in total, as I see it. The first amendment, as many of you have mentioned, was of a technical nature, the fundamental purpose of which is to formulate only linguistic or legal clarifications. The other amendment was tabled by two Members from MSZP, Dr. István Józsa and Dr. Bertalan Tóth. The two amendments are set out in Annex 6. § 8, 9. § and Art. This applies to the amendment or total withdrawal of Section 1. Of course, the Commission's amendment to the amendments is supported by the government, and the other amendment is not in agreement and is therefore virtually unable to support it. I would like to emphasise once again what is clear to you, and we have repeatedly said that the state's public service mission, as well as its national strategy and role in creating and providing certain basic public services. The strategic role of the national economy is linked to security of supply, the financing of universal services of fundamental importance regulated by separate laws. In this context, the acquisition by the State of shares of the minority shareholder in accordance with the legal procedure by the State company becomes justified in view of the aspects of the single ownership management. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions. They were supportive or partially supportive. Dániel Z. Kárpát's proposal was not entirely related to the subject or to the bill, but I can also agree with his suggestions in part. In recent years, there have indeed been investments in the EU and things that may not have been fully justified in Hungary with EU funding assistance. There were many of these in my constituency, too. Let me give you an example: in a small village with a total of 11 children, a playground was born on the edge of the village of 30 million forints, which no one in that village actually uses because there is no one to use it. [[21.30]] Then this is the case of funeral homes from EU sources, but we hope that the preparation was different or more serious now, and we hope that the proposals will also be more serious in the next period. However, I would like to mention in any way that 30 per cent of the previous cycle or seven-year cycle was available for economic development, and now 60 per cent or more than 60 per cent will be available. I believe that this will create a huge opportunity for Hungary to develop in the next seven years. It would be good to have a national cooperation on development in order to ensure that the municipalities are able to coordinate their objectives as much as possible and to draw EU funds together as much as possible. For its part, the government is trying to do this, and that is why it wants to bring the actors together, and that we can involve these resources as much as possible in the development of the Hungarian economy. I can, of course, almost entirely disagree with the findings of Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. He was trying to pin things on us that we didn't do, and we didn't. But these were almost two decades ago, so I think that memory can make the past a little more beautiful. The Postabank scandal wasn't triggered by the Fidesz government at the time, we provided assistance in the solution, and there were several of these that we inherited from the previous cycle, and we had to solve it ourselves. Once again, I would like to thank the Government for its supporting contributions, and I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to vote on the bill in the final vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-271	I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his reply to what was said in the debate. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. István Jakab, Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz, MEPs' own motion T/2088. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Agriculture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2088/10. and T/2088/11. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2088/14. and the summary report is T/2088/15. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-272	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 11 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2088 amendment of certain agricultural legislation relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. Bill No. 1. The submission of the proposal is mainly justified by the experience accumulated during the one and a half year operation of the Chamber. Accordingly, the bill largely amends the provisions of the Agricultural Chamber Act. In this context and clarifying the proposal submitted, our committee discussed the amendments made by the Committee on Agriculture and supported them by 21 yes and 11 non-voting votes. In addition to the resolution on the proposals received, the Legislative Committee also expressed its intention to make further amendments, which were submitted in addition to the amendments closing the detailed debate, which were also adopted in form with 21 affirmative votes and 11 non-voting votes. With a view to the competitiveness of our country's agricultural economy, the Legislative Committee adopted the summarised amendment proposal and the summary report with 21 yes and 11 no votes. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-273	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, minority speaker of the committee. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the Legislative Committee discussed the bill before us at the meeting on 11 December, and the following minority opinion was formulated. However, before the drafting of the minority opinion, I must also say the otherwise unusual fact that the meeting started with a surprising turn of events, because this item had to be taken forward, and we discussed it at the very beginning, at the second item on the agenda, and then I had to postpone the discussion of the item on the agenda again, because none of the legislators of the bill were represented at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, so the proposal slipped between the agenda items, and one of the legislators of the bill appeared and essentially presented his position. But here, in this section, it's the minority opinion that matters. The minority opinion was based on, and was based on, the fact that there was a disagreement here in the general debate, and I can see that Mr Secretary of State is shaking his head, but it was true, Mr State Secretary, that for practically 15 minutes you had read only the corrections, which were intended as improvements to the fellow Member of the Chamber of Agriculture who had proposed the bill. So, technically, it's a waste of time to get rid of that fact. Technically, this was what his work before the committee was, that he had to be nodded that what the Agriculture Committee had brought in was the same as what the Ministry said. However, this is where the opposition has constantly noted the voices that have been constantly raised with the legislation, even in relation to the original legislation, as well as the fact that this legislation does not help the situation of membership and, on the other hand, does not improve the social credibility of the Chamber of Agriculture. Its organisation and the majority of its officials are related to both the Fidesz and the nearby Magos Fidesz, and it shows in practice how few represented themselves in the Chamber of Agriculture elections. I have already spoken on this day about chamber membership and the importance of chamber participation. In the same way, it is said that the Chamber of Agriculture is having problems with legitimacy, as are all other chambers that are able to be politicised, or put into it by party functionaries or people close to it. So it seemed that the minority opinion itself, or the minority opinion, was repeated in relation to the way in which it operated, or the role it represented, and that there was a clear sense of tension, an internal dispute was felt, both by the Secretary of State or by the Minister of State or by the Secretary of State and by the officials of the Chamber of Agriculture and by the Members, gentlemen and gentlemen of the Chamber of Agriculture. So it seems that an unconfirmed message in this case is an amendment to the legislation. We see that there is a problem of legitimization in the Chamber, and it seems that there are serious problems and serious concerns on the part of the Ministry, and that is what the opposition has also felt in this bill, so that this minority opinion is based on which the committee has formulated what has just been described. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-275	Dear Parliament, I will ask President Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak now. [[Balázs Győrffy: Later.]] Yeah, at the end, good. A total of ten minutes will be available to you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on the part of the government, do you wish to speak to the Secretary of State? Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-15-276	Just very briefly, because Congressman Luke made statements that I have already denied at the committee meeting, and we simply cannot leave here without saying that, so that he does not artificially create and see things in the operation of the Ministry and the Chamber of Agriculture that are not there. [[21.40]] This is completely impossible, even the idea that there would be tensions between the Ministry of Industry and the Chamber of Commerce in the same field. What you have seen, and what I have presented here with Parliament's representatives, is a professional position, a result of professional work. And instead of seeing that yes, the Ministry is also doing serious, very serious professional work, and the national agricultural chamber and very serious professional work is taking place; and, yes, the mistake was made, citing the speed of time or technical things, that the original Chamber proposal had been submitted sooner than the specialised ministries could have agreed. All that I have presented, the Ministry's proposals have been incorporated into the Chamber's proposal in the following negotiations. That's all that happened. And I would very much like to ask the Member not to see things in the operation of the Ministry and the Chamber that are not working, and not to create an artificial feeling that would make it difficult or difficult for the two organisations to cooperate. It is particularly important that the functioning of both the Ministry and the National Chamber of Agriculture is balanced and that it is about professional work every day. I would like to tell you that this professional work, this harmony, the success of this negotiation, is what appears here tonight in the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have a resolution from the Committee on Agriculture and a presentation of the formulated minority opinion in a total of 6 minutes' time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Farkas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-278	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agriculture Committee met on 9 December with a detailed discussion of the bill before us on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. At the meeting, the bill was examined, and it was established that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. In the course of the debate, we discussed briefly the amendments, and concluded that they were in line with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. Finally, none of the previously submitted amendments were supported by the Committee. This was due to the fact that a Commission amendment was drafted at the meeting, which dealt with, inter alia, the problems which were the subject of the amendments proposed by its representatives. The Commission's amendments mostly or partly involve technical amendments, but also include a number of important substantive changes, e.g. the amendment clearly clarifies that the issue and validation of an original producer's card is a fee-free procedure; or, in order to avoid any conflict of interest, the supervision of the advisory service is not carried out by the Chamber of Agriculture, but falls outside its competence. The Chamber's status as a taxable person has remained unchanged compared to so far. The original proposal included amendments to the provisions of several agricultural legislation, but they were removed from the motion with the Commission's amendment, mostly because the proposals would later be implemented by other legislative and regulatory means. Following the adoption of the Commission's amendment proposal to close the in-depth debate, which included the proposals for amendments that we tabled, we closed the committee's meeting with a relatively brief debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-15-279	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, who will present the minority opinion in a three-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the opposition representatives' opinion was about the following, to be said to be unanimous, which can be summarised briefly. Although the amendments which were submitted to the bill and which were also discussed by the commission would have been eligible on a professional basis, as Mr Győrffy, representing him, as rapporteur at the committee meeting, are technical clarifications and, on the other hand, proposals to facilitate or facilitate the day-to-day operation of the Chamber of Agriculture, which, I would have said once again, would have been completely understandable and acceptable, but the opposition representatives stated at the Committee on Agriculture that they would not be able to support the bill. Thus, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support the bill either, we have already voted against or voted against the suitability for the general debate, and we have voted against the amendment proposals all along, just because we are interested in it, and we want a system of unpolitical representation of interests to operate in agriculture, in Hungarian agriculture and in the Hungarian food industry as well. Our view and claim is that the National Chamber of Agriculture is not independent of the government or the governing party, Fidesz. What proves this more than the fact that the President of the Chamber of Agriculture is our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy, who is, by the way, the author of the proposal and the representative of the Fidesz Parliamentary Assembly; or the Vice-President of the Chamber is Mr. And the political attachment of Magos is shown by the fact that the President of Magos is István Jakab, our fellow Member, Vice-President of Parliament, who is currently leading the meeting of the Parliament, or by Ferenc Obreczán, the Secretary-General, who was a former Fidesz Member of Parliament. We therefore rejected both the TAB modifier and the Commission's amendments and the summary report, and we will also say no to the law in the final vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-15-281	Thank you, dear Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Farkas, Fidesz. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Congressman says he doesn't want to speak. Then I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény. He doesn't want to say anything either. Dear Parliament, We will now just get to the further speeches, and I will give the floor to Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the general debate on the draft legislation, I said that our party is committed to supporting an organisation representing economic interests that can represent the interests of Hungarian farmers, those interested in agricultural production, against the government. However, due to what has already been said earlier, we have serious concerns about the legitimacy of an organisation in which membership law is mandatory due to the principle of functioning as a public body, but this membership does not receive any form of information from the possibility that the Chamber works. A typical example of this is this legislative amendment, where the Chamber requires a legislative amendment that is not supported by membership. Therefore, in our view, it would have been a legitimate suggestion that the Chamber measure its social support, acceptance by farmers, by abolishing compulsory chamber membership, and by allowing farmers to decide independently whether they wish to provide information on their own management and their own activities, which the Chamber will request after the legislative amendment. In our opinion, it would have a legitimate need for this, because in many cases the Chamber's full top management is linked to a political party or government, and obviously, since farmers are diverse and many people are involved, it is not expected that everyone can identify and accept this leadership. To this end, I have tabled amendments to the draft legislation, which I regret to note were not supported by the Committee on Agriculture, although it could have made the operation of the Chamber more legitimate by creating more transparent, clearer conditions and not trying to collect data on farmers that could in many cases raise concerns about Basic Law and data protection legislation. After all, we oblige farmers to join, and then, as a condition of membership to which we are obliged, we impose on members information that may not be issued voluntarily. [[21.50]] Technically, we want to ask you about all the data that you may not volunteer to tell us, and so we try to provide the Chamber with additional tasks with powers and information that the government does not always have at its disposal in this case. The Chamber wishes to take on tasks which, in many cases, should be clearly governmental and, in order to carry out matters more effectively and accurately, should be assisted by an institutional system. At the moment, the Chamber's efforts to extend these powers and competences cannot be accepted, in our view, because they do not serve the interests of membership and the interests of farmers. In the case of agricultural production, there would be a number of tasks in agriculture for which administrative possibilities could be simplified, for facilitating the lives of farmers, but these are not, but are new reporting obligations. As a result and due to the fact that our amends have been rejected, our party cannot support this amendment in this form, and we ask the representatives of the government to consider whether this is really in the interests of all farmers in Hungary, which stands up during this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-283	Thank you, Congressman. I just have to comment on what has been said so far: we are long over the general debate, my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention and understanding. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-15-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! We were quick to overcome the alarm when it was found in the general debate that there were serious concerns on the part of the Ministry about the proposal, because there was no doubt that they would be able to discuss this at a party event, since it would be impossible for the Ministry, the Chamber of Agriculture and Magos, or at least among its leaders, to do so without Fidesz's party card. So we were sure that there would be no problem and that they would be able to agree until the final vote. With regard to the amendment tabled, I am talking about the summary which was supposedly submitted by the Committee on Agriculture - I am saying that it is supposed to look this way because it may technically look like this, but in practice we got the material printed at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and then generously, President Font offered to order a five-minute break if we so request, in order to read over the otherwise many pages and detailed amendments that were obviously impossible to learn in five minutes. So I would like to ask the government here, too, that, if that is possible, let us be allowed, my fellow opposition and even pro-government Members, to do our job fairly. To do so, we need to get the materials that we need to take a decision on in time, either at a committee meeting or here in Parliament. It's amazing, I think it's a slap in the face in the face of legislation. So, of course, in hindsight, there was time now, a week to look at it, I can say that there are steps forward in this summarised amendment, even from my amendments, which I welcome, and I am pleased that we thought it was something to be improved in the same way. Of course, they have gone further in this amendment in a direction - here I would like to refer to data request, which I would like to place the most emphasis on - which we reject and find unacceptable. I do not understand why it is necessary to be aware of farmers' data to such a depth, I do not see what the Chamber of Agriculture will use this in practice in many cases, and what I suspect is a very wrong direction. Let me stress here, too, that, knowing Fidesz' relationship with the data of citizens, let me raise concerns and, as an opposition representative, let me not believe that this is merely necessary for the existence and functioning of the Chamber. I would not go along with the criticism of the Chamber, because, as the President warned us, this is indeed no longer the general debate, but our criticisms previously mentioned are not improved by this amendment, so we will not be able to support this proposal in the end either. I would also like to say with regard to our amendments that we have not accepted several of our substantive amendments, which, I think, have been very positive, and we may have believed that the legislator might have wanted to amend the law in this way; we can, of course, see that it has not. I would also like to highlight the amendment of the other opposition parties, because there were some that should have been taken to heart. Overall, therefore, this proposal does not soften, improve or even increase our concerns about data management at all, since it will look even deeper into the data of farmers and I stress once again that we often find this absolutely unjustified. If we just think about the fact that the President of the Chamber has repeatedly said that I am right in the criticism that the Chamber should perform more tasks and work more for farmers, I think that we have both thought that there would be more responsibilities that the Chamber could take over. There are some Western countries where there are excellent examples of how an agricultural chamber can operate in such a way that it significantly reduces the bureaucratic activity of those affected so that they can really focus only on work. We see that this amendment is not going in this direction at all. Since there are such important and high-ranking mergers between the Chamber, Magos and the Government, this raises further concerns. For example, when we talk about the fact that the Chamber will represent the interests of farmers even in legal matters - this would also be a direction followed by Jobbik - it is difficult to imagine in such a case when, say, against the MVH, against the NFA or even against the NAV in many cases, the interests of farmers should be protected; in such serious governmental and senior management mergers, how realistic can this be? In practice, we see that if any farmer has an argument, let's say with the MVH, and the case goes to trial, then the MVH wins 99 percent, let's say, cases. And let's not here think that 99 percent of the MVH is right, because we know that's not true. In many cases, they also make mistakes, and in many cases a law has been interpreted differently by the MVH in different years, resulting in a legal disadvantage for the farmer. If there are such concentrations of government levels in the Chamber, I do not think that it is realistic and it is not expected that this ratio will improve and we will go in the direction that the interests of injured farmers can finally be represented, let us say, legally. Even if I knew that this wasn't the primary task of the Chamber, I thought or took it out of the debate that we both wanted the chamber to move in this direction. In conclusion, just one more time, because of these shortcomings, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not be able to support this proposal, and I hope that from the current legislative chaos, which has been once again produced in the context of this law, they have learned at least that in the future they will provide us opposition representatives with the opportunity to prepare fairly for a proposal, because we have the intention, and I think our amendments show that we really understood the problem that the Secretary of State spoke about earlier. We have seen that the original proposal was not even suitable for what was originally intended to be said and represented. That is why we are asking that this should never happen again, and that at least two or three working days should be guaranteed for such an important proposal, which I believe is right to expect from us. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-285	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to make further speeches on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the signal of Balázs Győrffy:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman, in a ten-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-286	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would not, in principle, like to repeat what was said in the general debate, because it is also very visible from the speeches here - and I think whoever wanted to understand it understood - that we are actually talking about technical clarifications, a fine-tuning that is affecting the simplification of the operation of the chamber system that has been in place since March last year. Clarification of the exercise of the rights of membership, tasks around pre-production certificates and the content and management of information, data from members, are all important issues for which we need to be able to provide the exact answers to our membership. I would like to thank the relevant wallets, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Justice and other public bodies who have given us a meaningful opportunity within this narrow time frame to agree on the merits, and, as it appears in this form, it already offers consensus solutions for everyone. [[22.00]] A number of clarifications that will be clarified in another legislative context have been removed from our original vision. Of course, we weren't in love with the text we wrote ourselves, we didn't tie the dog to the stake, basically trying to give the exact answers to the problems. I thank my fellow opposition Members for their interest and proposals for amendments that seem to improve otherwise, but what we have put on the table is that no substantial amendment has been made. What was tabled was both the conceptual questions of the Chamber Act, which, not surprisingly, we do not wish to amend. And that's what we heard now. Dr. László György Lukács did not issue a substantive question, just as the others did not, in fact, mention certain parts, for what reason he was rejected. Finally, all the comments came to the conclusion that they disagreed with the conceptual chamber structure, in which there is a substantive difference of opinion between us, but of course I take note of that, and I also understood why the amendments had a bearing on this. I can refer to the same in the case of my fellow Member Zsolt Legény. And Sallai R. Benedek formulated the conceptual debate that appears in compulsory membership or voluntary membership. Let me just mention, in addition to compulsory membership, that there are a lot of instruments at the disposal of the Chamber as an economic authority that we can take serious action in the interests of everyone. By creating a code of ethics in addition to compulsory membership, we can provide not only a legislative but also an ethical framework for membership. This means that we can provide room for businesses operating legally within the white economy, and we want to make it difficult for those moving in the grey zone to do what is not done within the legal framework. Not to mention that this 380 thousand members can also be interpreted as a kind of consumer group, so we would certainly like to provide them with substantial assistance, whether in their input markets or in the field of financial services, so that we can provide them with HUF-measurable assistance. It is no coincidence that the Chamber has set up an insurance brokerage company with which our aim is to give our members a much better position in the insurance market when they negotiate various insurance products. I would like to assure my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, that we will manage the data within the legislative framework. Allow me to reject the assumption that we would like to abuse it in any way, but at the same time we have an obligation to do so, since the non-amended part of the legislation in force now states that it is the duty of the Chamber to keep an economic structure register. It is not a secret goal that, with the concrete knowledge of economic data, we can help in political and economic policy making, as you have heard from me several times: we can put exactly where we want to go, but it is also important to know where we are at the moment in order to set out the path. In that case, I think there's a lot of information missing. I think that we have a mandate for this, that, by obtaining these data, we can, once again, serve economic development in substance, alive and not abused. I would like to ask my fellow Members with all due respect, so that they can support the amendments in their vote on our proposal, which is in line with all aspects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-15-287	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, The XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly follows in a row. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. A separate motion from the Judicial Committee is made by T/2337. They can be accessed through the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the derogation from the adopted decision house rule, it is not possible to submit a proposal amending the bill and a report by the Commission. During the debate, the author's opening speech time was 10 minutes, the speaking time of the political groups was 5 minutes, the time frame of the independent representatives was 3 minutes, and the national rejoinder was 10 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Judicial Committee, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 10-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-288	Thank you very much for the floor. I have three things to tell you. The Justice Committee has submitted the bill with a unanimous vote. The provisions contained therein do not enrich Members with a single penny, given that no one will be entitled to more; they are technical amendments, and Parliament has accepted the derogation from the house rule by almost 100 percent, so I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-289	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to speak in the debate. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 5-5 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. There is no written speaker at the moment and it can no longer be. Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group, has now asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fact that a record-short 39-second proposal presented this proposal shows that there is something very unpleasant here. As well as being the first to speak to him as a first speaker, he does not wish to comment on this either Fidesz, MSZP or other party representatives, even though it is an amazing, unacceptable proposal. Since I have been a Member since 2010, in fact every year there has been some kind of trick about how to increase the allowances of representatives, whether with loopholes or crafts, as it does now, when the envelope does not seem to increase, but in fact by increasing the scope of use for a framework that is essentially inexhaustible as the fuel card's framework, we can talk about an increase on this basis. It is unacceptable, for example, that, while family support is not even a follower of inflation, Membership benefits are increased year after year in one way or another. Not only should the tolls not be paid to Members, but for example, the Internet tax would not burden Members, since at the same time one Member receives three Internet subscriptions: a mobile internet subscription to the laptop, mobile phone and the representative's office. We could also list the many, many benefits, which I think are exaggeration, but perhaps we should start by saying that if there is a full-time salary for representation, how can it be that they refuse to come to work in the second half of the week, and we still have to hold a late-night debate, because they are only willing to attend Parliament meetings on Monday-Tuesday. On the other hand, rather than remedying this, this proposal will create a new way of finding a job as a politician, either as President of the Regional Development Council or as a member, but also as a member of Parliament in the future, which has been prohibited so far. This could lead to unacceptable and obviously serious financial benefits, even for a presidential office. The current remuneration system has been a step forward compared to the previous regulation, let us say that it has made it more transparent, especially if we remember the constituencies' allowances, the tricks of all kinds of expenses, or the general abuse of housing support, since many people have taken the housing allowance in order not to rent a flat, they considered it a kind of payment supplement. It is therefore unacceptable, for example, that, as the explanatory statement states, if, for example, a large family member considers it necessary to rent more than 50 square meters of property, then there should be no obstacle to this in the future. It does not serve to provide a representative's living-like apartment even for his family, but to have a rural representative stay here for a night's debate and therefore to provide housing - not for his whole family, but only for himself, in principle, and not for the large family to provide more than 50 square meters of property. It is a deception that the envelope does not change, because if the scope of use is extended to a envelope that has been virtually inexploitable so far, it does involve a greater expenditure for the state, and for Members, to put it mildly, it means, let us say, less expenditure. If you think that parking can then be paid, for example, by telephone, or even by telephone, you can pay for a motorway sticker, and you can list in length what is being introduced. For now, you can't buy car washes, motor oil, tires or hot sandwiches with a fuel card, but if this continues, sooner or later you can buy beer at MOL wells with a fuel card. [[22.10]] The proposal is extremely misleading in many cases. For example, the 7th. Paragraph 2 has two words to explain, even though it is a one-page proposal: text-focusing provisions. On the other hand, it is prescribed that you can actually pay for parking by telephone in the future, a freeway sticker. Pizza cannot be ordered and paid yet, but it is also being led here, for example, to restrict offices to truncated Hungary, on which my fellow Member, István Szávay, will address you with a few more unsearched words. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-291	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-15-292	There are very few legislation on which there is a substantive debate or serious ideological debate in our group. This was a law that completely divided our faction. I did not agree with this legislative amendment from the beginning. It was a completely non-viable former regulation, which this Parliament, this party of government, adopted earlier, which could not be fulfilled. It was a regulation that had nothing to do with the real world, and it was never in agreement with anyone, a normal person, or a real estate agent, how to make use of any housing at all. Of the 114 people, quite a few of my fellow Members who are involved in the 10-15 who have actually managed to find suitable apartments, and after I am one of them, I can say that we should do it with all the government representatives, how to legally implement an impossible one after a failed, hasty piece of legislation. Let's go through with this. How can you back out of when you're making a piece of legislation whose implementation options are completely limited. I've been talking to someone from your faction who's been renting a 32-square-foot apartment for years, and now it's due to the previous regulations, because the law has determined that it's 35 to 50. The regulations were unviable, and you accepted them. And now you're asking the parties to support this? Did they ask you to take out those mistakes, those lifeless provisions? We got 30,000 forints on the phone. Practically any service provider can reach unlimited access for HUF 9,000. But they didn't figure out how to use it, and now they're looking for a reason to access these sources, so that more of them can be used. It was completely unviable, it wasn't figured out what it was for, and now they're making a regulation to start patching up their mistakes so far. I stood up to the faction not to support this regulation in any form, because I say that it should be implemented, that the governing party, which has implemented and invented this unviable legislation, which is not in line with the real-estate market, real-life or practical daily life, is able to apply. You know, it's obviously different from what we're doing, because we're in a group where five of us should have opinions about everything from rat poisoning to NASA space probes, because five of us have every single rule that somehow we represent the people who voted for us in Parliament. Therefore, in a slightly different way from my colleague, Mr President Novak, there are times when we do have to live here in a way that is a way of life. And we have no choice but to give up a much better family environment because we have to be here day and night because a small faction has no other option. This option has been taken away by this regulation. And a large faction like the one that created the regulation, where nothing out of 132 people is entrusted to 90, just have to come in and push buttons from time to time, it can use this completely flawed regulation. And they made one that would do that, and it wouldn't do for all the others, because they would limit their options. Overall, given that I was personally involved in this matter, I agree that all Members can keep their mouths shut. We work in significantly better working conditions than the vast majority of Hungarian society. With substantially more benefits, expenses and unfortunately better salaries than the majority of Hungarian society. This does not mean that I think this is so much, but I say that as long as the country's economic situation is like this, until governments are able to raise Hungarian society from poverty, it is unworthy to talk about them. Because many, many other people, we don't talk about the problem of millions of people, while legislation of this kind, which is related to our lives, comes before us at extreme speed, at high speed, as if the world depended on it. That is why I could not fully represent this in the faction, and with good heart accept the majority position of the group, that this should come here, that this should be discussed, and that this legislation should be adopted. This soup was cooked by you, the regulation that was useless and unadapted to the real world, you invented it, you should bear the consequences of it, you should adapt to it. That is why I am not happy to support this legislation. Obviously, I'm going to submit to the faction decision about what we're going to do with this. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-293	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, to the extent possible.
u2014-12-15-294	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to refer to an issue which concerns not the remuneration of Members but their working conditions. We also indicated our reservations about this during the preliminary consultation. This is why, if you are always talking about the fact that this is a united Hungarian parliament, where all Hungarians are represented, Fidesz has not agreed that we should be able to open representation offices across borders, abroad, with Hungarian citizens from abroad. We have come to this point, honourable MEP Vas Imre, who is here, that the Socialist Party and LMP supported this suggestion, by the way, only you, Fidesz, said that no, a Hungarian MP should not have an office of representatives in the torn areas. Honourable Congressman, All you need from outside is the votes, but the voters don't. We have not received any substantive arguments in this regard. I think that if there are more than 500 thousand Hungarian citizens who you are always proud of, and 97 percent voted for you, as we know, and for whom you are always proud that this is a Hungarian parliament representing all Hungarians, then it is completely incomprehensible to me, and so that the support of MSZP and LMP was behind this proposal, it is absolutely shocking that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance thought that the possibility of renting offices was restricted only to the territory of Hungary. We hope that if this proposal changes in some form later, we will also resolve this issue. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-295	Thank you. I've given you time to finish your thoughts, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak within the time limit available. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As an independent Member is not in the Chamber, I have no way of giving them the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Vas Imre, if he wishes to respond in the remaining timeframe. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2014-12-15-296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Novak is not arguing primarily with me, but with his fellow political groups, who have proposed this bill for submission or voted in favour of this being submitted by the Judicial Committee. The other Congressman Savay's suggestion. On the one hand, they did not tell me this at a faction settlement. [[István Szávay: It's not true.]] My colleague Savay told me on the Judicial Committee. In my personal opinion, it causes problems when the Parliament's Office rents any property in a foreign state. Of course, it is not impossible for the faction to hire an office from its own budget, and obviously the Fidesz faction will also solve it, and other factions will also resolve the relationship with voters living outside the country. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-15-297	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. A total of 12 speeches after the agenda are still to be held. I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, with the title of Glory to the memory of the Raggyos Guard. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-15-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sopron Civitas Fidelissima. 93 years ago, between 14 and 16 December 1921 a referendum was held that allowed Sopron and the surrounding eight settlements to stay with Hungary, contrary to the ideas of peace in Saint-Germain. This may still be well-known. But it's not so much who's responsible for this territorial gain. The Raggedy Guard, the shameful silence of the Raggedy Guard, its members and its leaders, Iván Héjjas, Pál Prónay, and not least of all to Mihály French Kiss. [[22.20]] The French Mihály Kiss who was executed in 1957 under outrageous circumstances on grounds of baseless charges. He was allowed to suffer for more than 20 minutes, and despite the fact that one of his daughters had applied to the Supreme Court in 1994 for a review, the avalanche spirit, the surviving avalanche spirit, his SZDSZ heirs prevented this review, and the death sentence still applies to this day. The memory of the Randyos Guard is not guarded by public statues, artworks, it is not in the public consciousness, in the system of public education as much as it should be in a country with a fortunate historical development, in a country with a national self-consciousness. What did they do? By the end of 1918, we lost the war, but all of this was made difficult by the fact that Michael Károlyi, perhaps the most talented politician in our history, had gained power. Mihály Károlyi, the degenerate red Count whose minister of war, Béla Linder, the alcoholic declared that he did not want to see any more soldiers, despite the fact that everyone knew that the surrounding countries - Serbia, Romania or the Czechs - wanted to take large and large areas out of Hungary. Although there was a Székely division that tried to stop the resistance and the Romanian troops moving from the east, this Székely division had to face the shame of not only facing the Oláh troops, but also shooting them in the back by the government Bolsheviks, who had gained power in the meantime. So they could keep up as much as they could hold on to the eastern lines until April 1919, but then they had to give up this fight. The former member of this Szekler division was Mihály Kiss of France, who participated in the war as a family of farmers in Kecskemét, in the Serbian theatre, and then, at the siege of Przemyśl, he was the only one who was able to escape from there, escaped, and then survived ten very bloody, terrible battles of Isonzo and later joined this Szekler division. After that, the Sadist Tibors Szamuely arrested him, and then, as he was declared class enemy or spy, he was sentenced to death. He escaped from captivity, took another weapon, fought against the Romanian troops who occupied the Great Plain, and also against the Reds. This was his real sin, for the descendants and descendants of the Bolshevik executioners of the Republic of the Council could not forgive this. They could not forgive what they had done in the context of national self-defense, for example, by acquiring the armory or weapons in fürstenfeld, they allowed armed defence in Western Hungary, they could not forgive it, and after 1945 they were sentenced to death by the People's Court. He was able to escape from this, and for more than 12 years he was hiding in the farmhouses around Orgovány as a melon-tuber, but unfortunately, after 1956 he was caught and arrested. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And he was executed. We're here to honor his memory. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-299	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title 'Get rid of our feet' because of hospitals. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, approximately 9,000 feet are amputated each year, and the number of diabetics is constantly increasing. However, diabetes is not only responsible for the loss of an limb. Diseases leading to lower end amputation according to frequency: 80% of diabetes, 14 percent due to accidental injury, 3 percent of cancer and 4 percent of remaining inflammatory diseases and malformation. The most common occurrence of amputations due to vascular diseases is between 50 and 70 years old, but as age progresses, the possibility of amputation is increasing, and unfortunately 70 percent of men are affected by this problem. With the dramatic increase in the number of diabetics, as I said, this figure is currently almost twice the number we experienced in Hungary in the 1980s. However, more than half of the amputations could be avoided if the health insurance company made hospitals financially interested not in cutting off legs but in saving them, or if the national network of intervention radiology had been promoted by the profession for years. A fraction of the costs of amputation - hospital treatment, rehabilitation, prosthetic limb, disability benefit, loss of work - would be sufficient. The costs of the former, i.e. prevention, amount to HUF 1-1.5 billion, while the costs of the latter, i.e. the leg cutting, amount to HUF 30 billion per year. You can see, therefore, that even from the cost side, there is a greater social interest in keeping babies than in losing them prematurely. The profession has developed concrete proposals, and first of all, on the basis of the current angiology laboratories, a national network of 10-12 centres could be built up into a 24-hour network in each county. The centers would not require more than three or four beds using the overnight system, as patients would spend one or two nights in there, who need longer care, those patients would be treated in another department. By creating the centre, there would be a good chance that many more of the 700 thousand diabetics would be able to detect vascular obstruction when they can be cured by means of intervention radiology. However, there is another problem in which, unfortunately, a very large percentage of cases end with amputation, and this is leg ulcer. In Hungary, the number of patients with leg ulcers is estimated to be 100,000, whose amputation occurs if the condition of the so-called tissue deficiency cannot be eliminated by proper wound treatment, medication or surgery. According to a new procedure called hyperbaric oxygen therapy, the important element of which is to improve the oxygen supply of the body part, 80 percent of patients develop a healing pink skin layer around the wound after treatment 10, and the earlier discharge wound begins to dry slowly, after which the skin layer covering the wound is formed, the ulcer tightens from day to day in a visible way. You can see that this is an extremely effective method of prevention, but it is also possible to heal in a so-called pressure-resistant chamber, in a coal chamber at a pressure of 2.5 times the normal atmospheric pressure after inhalation of 100 percent medical-grade oxygen. The problem of the amputation of limbs can therefore be summarised as follows: in Hungary, the loss of tens of thousands of forints due to underfunded blood vessel opening in the framework of so-called intervention radiology, although the Hungarian legs could be retained by this procedure, in contrast, for an amputation, the hospital receives more than the cost of the intervention. What kind of financing system makes hospitals and doctors interested in amputating still salvageable, manageable legs rather than keeping them. Moreover, the solution is clear, the focus on prevention needs to be further strengthened, screenings and health conscious lifestyles should be provided for patients who are able to receive general medical care and basic care. In addition, the neglected intervention radiology that has been lagging behind in the last 20 years must be developed, thus making hospitals and doctors interested in keeping their legs. The patient's side of the question does not need to be clarified, for them, keeping the leg is the most important thing for us. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-301	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda, with a title on the margins of a regulation. You have the floor. [[22.30]]
u2014-12-15-302	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As is known, the 46/2014. The BM regulation allowed local authorities to apply for additional aid for the purchase of fuel for social purposes, so that municipalities not exceeding 5 000 main populations could apply for aid for the purchase of firewood for social purposes or for the purchase of coal. The programme to facilitate winter heating for socially deprived people started in 2011. In the first year, the amount was almost HUF 1 billion, and since then the budget has been growing ever since. This year, according to the decision of the Minister of the Interior, a total of 2068 municipalities received social firewood and coal subsidies worth HUF 3 billion. A maximum of 5 cubic metres of firewood or 10 grams of coal per household can be provided in accordance with the Regulation. However, the effectiveness of the measure depends not only on the amount of aid to be granted, but also on the moisture content of the fuel and the efficiency of the combustion plant. Let's look at the moisture first. Local authorities have until 15 February 2015 to deliver the fuel to the population, the purchase of wood is not possible before the entry into force of the regulation, i.e. before 25 September. It is hardly likely that the firewood you can obtain would be air-dry, since the tree will have to dry for two years in the open. At best, the previous winter log is available, but it is more likely to be sold in autumn. This fact has a major impact on the extent to which the wood received as a support is used for the benefit of the individual and the community. The moisture content of freshly cut wood is between 50 and 60 percent, while the air-dry tree contains 12 and 15 percent moisture. The latter has a calorific value of 16,5 megajoules per kilogram and only half of the 50 per cent moisture content. In other words, the calorific value is reduced in proportion to the moisture content, as the boiling of the water at the time of fire causes a great loss of energy and also damages other conditions of combustion, resulting in pollution of the environment. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm sure we'll sit away from the Betterman. As the water content reduces not only the calorific value but also the combustion temperature of the combustion plant, the combustion process at a lower than desired temperature is not usually perfect anymore, some components of the wood are not burned. Thus, unburned wood gases leave the chimney or fall in the form of tar and soot. Unburned tar and soot pollutes the smoke ducts and chimneys, carries the possibility of carbon monoxide poisoning, and because it insulates the heat draining heating surfaces, it prevents total heat sales. Another condition for good energy efficiency is a sufficiently efficient combustion plant. Unfortunately, it is unlikely that the target group has a modern combustion plant, which burns wood with high efficiency and can store the heat extracted. The price of a modern wood gasifying boiler with 90 percent combustion efficiency is around 500 thousand forints, and it reaches 1 million forints with the necessary heat storage facilities and fittings. The efficiency of today's fashionable and priced fireplace stoves, which can be purchased between 50 and 60 thousand forints, is only 15-20 percent, and the storage of heat is not solved. It is easy to see that the combination of low combustion efficiency combustion plants and wet wood is just a waste of a valuable natural resource, in addition to pollution of the environment. This, of course, also means the poor and harmful use of public funds for support. The real, effective aid therefore requires a series of measures. 1. In order to protect consumers and the environment, it is necessary to regulate that trade can only market air-dry firewood with a maximum moisture content of 15 per cent. The profits of society and the individual will be higher even if this is understood to result in the increase in the price of firewood. 2. With the establishment of a return fund, support should be given to the spread of high-efficiency combustion plants, who will receive support for firewood, which will also receive support for the replacement and construction of the combustion plant. 3. We need to improve the firing culture. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, we use nearly 3 million cubic meters of firewood each year. Due to inadequate storage of firewood and incorrect means of firing, energy loss can be 30-50 percent. Last sentence: Effective fire is good for the farmer, because it saves money, good for the forest, because it can remain more natural, and good for everyone, because we do not pollute the environment. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-15-303	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-304	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to remember some of the tasks I couldn't do. There's a lot of them, but I'd just like to mention a few by name. Ferenc Újhelyi has written more than a hundred letters to my address in the last two months because he lost his job at the end of Malév, and since he has special skills and qualifications, he has not found a suitable job, and his family, his private life is starting to fail, and he thinks that I can change his fate as a representative. But I don't feel like it. That's why I thought I'd turn him in here, see if the government could turn him in. I was approached by private owners of Érd, who have undivided common ownership of their land, and they said that the Fidesz mayor was able to sell the 2 hectares of undivided common land for nearly HUF 50 million, and no one wants to buy their own land here. They thought I could take care of it, but I can't take care of it because neither the D.A. nor anyone else wants to do anything about it. Péter Pukler's father's son Abel, his twin brother, was born for seven months, but Abelke had a stroke, and he developed movement coordination problems, and even though the parents wore him to gymnastics and therapy, the boy's condition did not improve. Their only hope remains that a doctor in Barcelona may be able to achieve results with a special surgery, which in many cases has been successful. They took him out, they operated on the little boy, but the OEP indicated afterwards that he couldn't afford this surgery. The family is on the verge of collapse, except for me, only a betterman replied to his letter. Since then, he has been waiting for advice and help about what will happen to them. István Kardi, János Sivák, Zoltán Bartucz, Attila Jobbágy, János Papp, Margaréta Pintye, Péter Tiszakürti-Tóth, Éva Kalmár, Tibor Köves, Judit Dirdáné Gausz, Béla Bakó and other 241 people wrote me an e-mail, together with many other representatives, because they felt very disappointed in the parliament, in their elected representatives, because they felt that they were not helped in their foreign exchange loan and were deceived. These people thought that, like those who could choose to pay off, they would have the chance to repay their losses in an unfair system on the basis of a more fairer law, but they felt that they had been betrayed and were informed in many, many letters that they were expecting other measures. Annex XII is replaced by the following: district residents wrote to me because they thought that as chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I had the opportunity to save Normafa from a development that very, very many people are opposed to, but unfortunately I cannot put on the agenda with the committee to talk about it in substance. A family in Besenyőd came to me because the local administration is making their lives completely impossible because they have spoken of violations of the public works programme, and since then they have received virtually no work on the ground. For example, residents came to me because the local economy is seriously destroying nature through the mass disposal of construction debris, endangering the local drinking water base, but the competent authorities, as they did in the case of a red sludge disaster in their lips, do not find any irregularities. After speaking about the cultural heritage law two weeks ago, a resident of Győr wrote a letter saying that one of the most beautiful spaces in his city had recently been destroyed by earth workers, destroying a huge section of the medieval past of the city and receiving no help from anyone. All this has been done with local government and government efforts. And finally, my lander, Lajos Hódos of Túrkeve - the Pretzels of the Hódos bakery can meet his products all over the country in connection with kevi pretzels - came to me because, despite final court judgments, the NAV denies a tax refund of 10 million without a valid explanation, which has recently destroyed a bakery of 150 jobs, making it completely impossible for them to operate further. And finally, this case led me to speak with a brief literary commemoration of how the relationship between Hungarian society and the Hungarian leadership, i.e. the elite, may seem from the point of view of society today. Unfortunately, this hasn't changed for centuries. I quote, please excuse me for reading. He keeps his flock of servants to number, as if every one of his hair wished for a watchman; one might think that he might be hanged, so he is surrounded by the lepers, and we can hardly receive a bad pipe in seven. He gives away dances, as if he had ever had a wedding or a baptism: and we have a heart to heart if a tavern man shows up on our street, as the debt is about to come to mind. The good Meranies are the most beautiful horsemen, - yesterday a knife, today a grey one, tomorrow a pale one: - we have to catch our wives and brats if we don't starve to death. They play, they eat away, as if each one of them were blessed with one stomach: the freshmen shall perish of our trifles, because we ourselves consume the waste. To hunt from our beautiful lands, they make chickens, where we are not allowed to enter; and if a sick wife or a child with poor pox desire, we will strike down a bad young pigeon, and he who robs a hundred and a hundred thousand will be the judge of a man who is forced to rob a penny. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[22.40]]
u2014-12-15-305	Thank you. Dear Parliament, At this late hour, I think it's not just for the head of the meeting, it's for the others. Mr István Ikotity asked for a speech with the title 'Protection of our cultural values'. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The May Other, according to Politics, is our joint task to preserve literary treasures. It is the joint responsibility of civilians, political groups, those in government positions, but all our countrymen who are responsible, who like culture and literature. In recent weeks, we have seen the events surrounding the legacy of Miklós Radnóti and Fanni Gyarmati, which have caused us great concern. The publications containing Radnóti's own comments, additions and valuable pieces of Gyarmati Fanni's library were taken to auction at the beginning of December. Several valuable pieces of the estate were auctioned. In our opinion, objects have been placed in the auction or antiquariums, which, although strictly speaking, are not part of the literary legacy, are still considered to belong to our national heritage. Such values include, among other things, the Márai book, which Milán Füst signed to Radnóti by Milán Füst, who was bought for himself or for anyone else by the pro-government representative mentioned in the papers, or the Márai book from the poet's library. It is no secret that we also had in our hands, for example, a Paris guide to the couple's poetry-inspiring voyages in Paris, published in the '30s. We also received a copy of the West magazine from the inheritance in which it was written by hand; it is likely that the poet did so himself. These valuable specimens were found in the antiquarium by a member of the LMP's enthusiastic collection of books, and by the way, by the way, by a delegate of the educational committee of one district. Unfortunately, in various antiquariums and auctions, valuable parts of the estate must be harvested. He donated the purchased volumes to the Karinthy Frigyes High School, where nearly 50 volumes were found at home with civil cooperation. Here, not only students, but anyone interested can see them and get to know them. If we hadn't found these pieces, they might never have become public goods. It can now be said that many of the elements of Gyarmati Fanni's library have been scattered, and even some of them have become permanently unidentifiable. The press is saying that they're already forging volumes one. It is unacceptable for the LMP that some people do not even make a fair deal of their inheritance. All these and similar values, in our view, should enrich our national culture and become visible to all, not enrich a collection of private collectors. This is clearly not the responsibility of the heirs, but also the responsibility of the state. While, of course, the right of personally named heirs to treat legacy objects must be respected, it should also be stressed that the whole legacy is a national treasure in a symbolic spiritual sense. In our opinion, the common library and art heritage would be the most worthy place in a public collection, not scattered, privately. Books, magazines and material memories that are part of the legacy should be made available to readers and all interested parties. It should have been sought not to be scattered for 70 years by the widow alone and with incredible endurance, a joint library kept faithful and a combination of artifacts. Radnóti and Gyarmati's oeuvre and legacy are undoubtedly world-class in literary, aesthetic and ethical terms. Accordingly, the care of their legacy requires appropriate humility, expertise and above all ethical behaviour from all of us and the entire Hungarian society. The LMP does not want to use the question of the poet's legacy for any political purpose; we simply want to draw attention to the importance of keeping literary values together. We must preserve the treasure of the poet and his wife, the literary works, and the whole tangible and spiritual legacy of their shared life to the fullest extent possible. Of course, we don't just think about the legacy and legacy of Miklós Radnóti and Fanni Gyarmati. Even with legislative changes, we consider it necessary to take steps to preserve, preserve and make our cultural heritage known. Culture is our common cause. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-15-307	Member László Kiss, MSZP Group also applied for a post-meeting speech: the rest twice - II-III. the title of the national experience of district renovations. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had time to get here, too, so it's a good thing we did. Actually, it's a series, and the last member of it was when Strabag Kft. I've drawn attention to the anomalies of his road renovation operations in and around Gold Mountain. Now I'd like to share another case here. This is a little more positive, but I think that perhaps your experience may be important.In the summer of 2014, this summer, a road, road and a scavenger was built on behalf of the BKK in the construction of the BKK. However, the implementation left something to be desired. First, allow me to quote a letter from a citizen who lives here. It says, "I'll write down how a dry road will be completed in Hungary today." Two workers show up in the truck with a little grabber on it. They know they have to build a dry road, but they don't know where. They don't know what utilities are on the road or where. They look at two places and dig up two holes. In the meantime, you will find the old salt line, which has been referred to for years to the point that there it is. This is a plastic tube about 20 centimeters in diameter, with a pickaxe, completely clogged with earth. The workers are pulling down, reappearing in two days, putting down six concrete rings, leaving. About a week later, they show up, lay down the concrete rings, reload the earth, surround it with barriers. Another few days, they appear, with some crushed asphalt like, they surround the splinters, compress them, and they're done. Under these circumstances, it's no coincidence that the renovation failed. With the sketchy list of faults at this hour, I wouldn't disturb you by fully sharing technical parameters with you, but the most important of these are eclectic curbs in the driveways. These were very interesting works. Some were on the street level, some were higher, some were lower, some were lower, which is interesting because these eclectic solutions were even different as doorways to the neighbors; it is incomprehensible why. The side of the road dam was not tarmacized, nor did the landscaping take place. The lack of landscaping seems to be a common point with Strabag, where dust removal and landscaping work on Aranyhegy cannot be done for some reason, and part of the fresh asphalt cloak broke under the cars in a few days. You can't say it's a good thing. Unlike Strabag, we were able to communicate continuously with the BKK's authorities, both the voters were able to communicate and myself, and I was able to get my signals to the BKK's authorities. For example, what did not happen at Strabag was that the BKK responded to my suggestion in 30 days. On 18 September 2014, a few days after my suggestion, if I remember correctly, the BKK officials had a visit, where they looked at what had been done, what improvements had been made. On this tour, it was possible to join the people living here, and not only could they join, but the participants also received the BKK's entry report later on. I would also like to thank the BKK, in particular, for providing me with the information and reporting in a letter about the experiences of the visit, despite the fact that I was not here at this visit, so pro form would not have been obliged to do so. [[22.50]] Well, in this House, the rest is twice tired, which means it's easier and cheaper to do everything right for the first time than to keep going over and over and over and over again and look at the mistakes. However, I am saying that this is a slightly different experience, because here the reactions of the BKK were also substantial, and the errors have been corrected. Just a little bit of the afterlife of my previous speech on the agenda, in which I described the catastrophic nature of the reconstruction of Strabag in Golden Hill, i.e. it was possible to complete this with new mistakes. The other day, a voter approached me by destroying the driveway of his newly renovated house by Strabag Kft. In principle Strabag has a complete recovery obligation, I am curious to see how Strabag will be able to build a newly broken flower bed as it approaches the end of December. That will be the question of the future. Thank you for your patience. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-15-309	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Anita Heringes, MSZP Group also applied for a post- Agenda address, which was not promised to the future pensioners in Paks. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-310	Thank you very much for the floor. Before the law setting up tomorrow's budget, I thought it was important that one of the shift workers working several shifts in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which I will read literally, be heard between the walls of Parliament. A tired worker's message I'm 58, a locksmith. I've been working at the nuclear power plant for over 30 years. I joined the company for physical work when I was young, healthy, strong. I received strong promises of good pay, good community, difficult, challenging work, working conditions. They even emphasized the advantage of a retirement allowance to appreciate the radiation risk I'm taking. They said, "When you get old at work, mate, you can go get some rest first, just give your place and the task to the generation after you." You will be able to take care of your grandchildren so that your children can do full work at their workplace. And last but not least, as a sick, tired person, be tolerated at work, enjoy a well-deserved rest in health. I have not forgotten these promises since then, because they have helped me overcome my fears and make the decision: yes, I will take the job. Where am I today? Thirty years past, my youth is now a memory. I'm going to have to see my GP more and more, and then I'm going to have to go to the clinic. It's okay, it's just the usual. I can't even walk without glasses. Back pain is a daily guest accompanied by joint pain. I can climb the ladder, and I can only climb the pipes with strong preparation. The handling of modern machines is becoming increasingly difficult. The completion of official exams also requires almost a whole person. I hear there's been a loss of age. I'm desperate. They lied to me, they tricked me, they gave me false promises. Now that I have fulfilled my expectations and enjoyed the reward of my efforts, they say no. My colleagues and I work 13-14-15 months a year, and we've given you standing by and on duty. We came to work in the afternoon and at night. We worked Sunday, Christmas, Easter if we had to. We came in summertime and in snow and ice. Many of our children were only seen in their beds, quickly grown up, thanks to my wife's careful upbringing and patience. Can't I retire early? Isn't my jobless son freeing me? I'm about to be asked by the operating doctor that I don't think about any other job because I don't get the fitness for the next year. And if I don't get it, they're gonna fire me? When I'm 58, where do I get physical work, which I'll be able to do? Am I lining up for welfare, community service? Is that what my youth, my strength, my health was worth? Now, when I ask for my fair share, they'll show me the door: get out, stinky workman! Meanwhile, I thought I would ask the government to listen to me, hear my colleagues' request, not throw us on the street, leave us our retirement allowance. Then the news came that the LIGA was negotiating, but without us again, they wanted to decide about us. There's something to think about, there's something to talk about. What about people over the age of 50 who have impaired vision, high blood pressure, wearout joints, lack of strength, because difficult working conditions, continuous shifts, constant overtime consume your body? The word of the people of Paks, your opinion, it doesn't mean anything, all you need is your responsible work? No, you don't! My spine doesn't bend in all kinds of winds. Not the job. I stand up for my point, I refuse to keep my mouth shut. I'm here now. I've come for me and my colleagues. And I'll come by again if I have to, because the guy at work, if he promises something, he'll keep it. It is a pity that the early retirement was not promised to me by a laborer..This letter could have been written not only in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but also among railway colleagues, as well as among miners, and among MOL colleagues, and in many areas of the electricity industry and many other places. Think about it, fellow Members, these people have worked through their lives, and tomorrow all Fidesz and pro-government Members will take away early retirement from these people, and they will also be asked to do everything they can to expand the power plant professionally and beyond their powers. I don't think Fidesz can vote for this bill tomorrow. Thank you.
u2014-12-15-311	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Demeter, Ms Márta, MSZP Group, asked for a speech on the purchase of helicopters from the Gripen score. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This year, the government was burning in the fever of helicopter procurement. And the most remarkable is the procurement that the Ministry of Defence carried out just a few days before the Spring Parliamentary elections. At that time three old Soviet Mi-8 transport helicopters were purchased for nearly HUF 3 billion without public procurement. Instead of public procurement, a special procurement procedure was conducted specifically for military assets, which, of course, limited the transparency of the transaction and excluded competition. However, the legality of this special procurement procedure in this case is highly doubtful, since the Mi-8 helicopters purchased were civilian helicopters, at least this is indicated by the fact that they were previously in the civil register and their painting was also civilian. They became military tools only here, in Hungary, by being placed in the Hungarian Defence Force and by painting them with military paint. However, even the procedure specifically for the purchase of military equipment must start with the publication of a notice as a matter of principle. But in this case, it didn't happen either. Obviously, it doesn't surprise us that the Ministry of Defence immediately found two legal reasons to completely exclude the public. In their view, it was not necessary to publish the notice because it was necessary to prevent the failure of the procurement, of the technical device affecting the determining ability of the forces, and that the Mi-8 helicopter was intended to expand its volume as a regularized device. However, I am sure that we can all see the transparency of these reasons, because these helicopters did not fail, but their operation would expire, and they should have been subject to mandatory maintenance, and in the absence of this, the helicopter fleet of the Hungarian Army was forced to land. I think even a flying club is quite aware of the flight time of its aircraft, which is why we wouldn't assume that the Ministry of Defence was unexpectedly hit by the failure of its helicopters. So, we ask whether the lack of planning can actually justify avoiding the rules of procedure and whether, in the case of a billion-dollar acquisition of assets, the non-application is due to the fact that the instrument was previously regularised. After all, if we were to accept this, we would never have to put up a tender. However, I would like to point out here that all the arguments made by the Ministry of Defence regarding the unexpected loss of transport helicopter capability were incredibly false and false, as Fidesz was already well aware as a opposition party - I would add, it was even a public figure as to when helicopters would expire - when this helicopter power would run out. [[23.00]] The only question left is what they were doing for five years. The government cannot distract attention from its responsibility that in five years nothing has been done to preserve the ability of the Hungarian Defence Forces to transport helicopters. This is an irresponsible behaviour which is absolutely unacceptable in the field of protection. On the part of the MSZP, we have repeatedly stressed how important it is for the Hungarian Army to maintain its helicopter capability, as in disaster situations, life can depend on whether helicopters can take off. In the spring of 2013, the Ministry of Defence presented a reasonable timetable for resolving and resolving this situation. I have to add that it hasn't turned out to be anything since. The cover for helicopter procurement is not visible in the budget proposal, and there is no evidence of the tender notice in addition to the fact that Deputy State Secretary Péter Siklósi said that everything is ready and waiting for the government's decision. A few days ago, he declared that, by the way, the purchase of transport helicopters was on the agenda, the case didn't go away, it was just a little pushed out. We're very curious to know when it's going to happen. In any case, the government must solve the problem, not lose it. The final question is whether they will take a responsible decision and in what way, i.e. whether they will achieve helicopter procurement with maximum transparency, or whether they will purchase helicopters from Gripen's sheet music. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2014-12-15-313	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. What is under the tree? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-314	Mr President, Dear House, Approaching Christmas without exaggerating, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families have a very serious problem with how to put a smile on their children's faces. We also need to say that attendance is increasing in receiving hours, and the weight of the problems that people bring in may also weigh more on the shoulders, their shoulders a little more than in the rest of the year. Last week's reception class was attended by Aunt Ági, who was being harassed by a factoring company at 7:00 p.m. Friday night, on the weekend, in front of her family. You can no longer bother him at work because he lost it after his health deteriorated. It's one of the large shopping malls, a foreign-owned chain factoring company that's harassing him. How did this whole story start? Several years ago, the lady was persuaded to use a so-called credit line of 300 thousand forints, who then made her purchase from it. Then he paid what he had to pay decently. Again, we're talking about $300,000 in debt. This statement, which is in front of me, is about HUF 474 874. So your debt has increased by a great deal. But seven years have passed, and on the basis of the fair statement before me, I can see how many thousand forints the old lady paid to this institute each month by post cheque or cashier's deposit. Overall, it amounts to HUF 1 016 308. So after a debt of HUF 300,000 seven years ago, the old lady repaid more than a million forints, and now she owes HUF 474,000. This is Hungary! There is no legislation, there is no legal environment that could justify, make it acceptable that Hungarian families be looted at a similar level and to a similar extent. It can be seen that this robbing mechanism is the cause of hundreds of thousands of families that quite simply not only can't get a decent gift under the tree, but often also the food, the celebration, and the honour of the holiday are a problem. That is why we say that the so-called private bankruptcy, the institution of family bankruptcy protection, could be very, very helpful in this situation, since let's face it, what is now going on for companies in Hungary, unfortunately, does not apply to families. If, according to Jobbik's motion, we could assign a family helper to all the difficult situations of the Hungarian family, who would help to reschedule the debt, reduce the repayment, while at the same time increasing the duration, linking it to the labour market, free re-training programmes, who might still be able to, clearly, be protected by these families. But even if it was a gesture, they could feel that there is someone in Hungary who takes their hand, who stands by them. It is clear, therefore, that there are hundreds of thousands of people on the side of the road in multi-company and bank paradises. We don't want to let them get kicked from the side of the road into the ditch. For this reason, in the spirit of reconciliation, I must wish not only Aunt Ági a merry Christmas, but all of her fellow Hungarian citizens, who now feel in Hungary that neither the politicians nor the supervisory authorities nor the authorities are on their side in these years, do not take their hand when they are exposed to clear robbing mechanisms such as this example, legalized usury and various forms of free robbery. Therefore, in addition to wishing Aunt Ági a merry Christmas to her fellow fates, I would also like to wish the strength to achieve together their compensation, until together we can regain at least the chance of a decent life for them. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-15-315	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached our last speech after today's agenda. Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech:.Fidesz promises to break up with the rural ruining policy of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments and protect railway sidelines. Oh, no. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-15-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Esztergom suburb - Almásfüzitő, Székesfehérvár-Komárom, Pápa-Csorna, Zalaegerszeg-Rédics, Székesfehérvár-Sárbugád, Sásd-Komló, Balassagyarmat-Ipolytarnóc, Eger-Szilvásvárad, Abaújszántó-Hidasnémeti, Karcag-Tiszafüred, Mátészalka-Csenger, Mezőhegyes-Újszeged, Lajosmizse-Kecskemét, Kunszentmárton-Lakitelek, Szentes-Orosháza. What do these things have in common? Yeah, according to the leaks, these are the wing lines that the railroad-killing government may consider to be another victim. I can't and don't want to be subtler, because when the MSZP-SZDSZ governments began to close these lines and similar railway lines, you were speaking with exactly the same vehemency, and exactly the country's killers were rightly called the former socialist-liberal governments. [[23.10]] In addition, they close the sidelines in the regions where you have received the largest number of votes and who owe the most to their present two thirds. Unfortunately, it has been characteristic of transport in Hungary for two decades now that when it comes to savings, it is only the governments that keep thinking about cutting down and closing down. We reopen everything, remember the slogan, during the eight-year government of MSZP-SZDSZ the opposition of then, Fidesz of then, and now we find that, at the beginning of the previous cycle, some sidelines have been reopened, but year after year, new closing measures are emerging. After all, according to the news, on the basis of plans developed by the Ministry of National Development and its representative Institute of Transport Sciences, supported by some of the leaders of MÁV-Start, some 4 percent will be eliminated on long-distance trains and proposed to close the lines already listed by me in the 2014-15 agenda, which is also interesting because the new timetable is now in place on 14 December, and these changes will be disrupting this new timetable from January, possibly February. By the way, a good part of the lines concerned belongs to this alibi-pass category when two trains walk in one day, but some of them are willing to fly four trains. And the only reason I mention it is because, in addition to such statistics, with such rare numbers of flights, no one should tell me how effective that line is or how used it is, because obviously, if a railway line is not adapted to people's needs, and it is not adapted to these changed needs either in number of flights or on time, then it is not possible to expect it to produce figures that might be fiscally profitable. Four years ago, as I said, the Fidesz government opened up a significant part of the railway lines closed by the MSZP in the midst of very loud words and a complete folk fete, and, by the way, assured the workers and travelers that these lines were very important to the governing party and would form a very important part of the MÁV system in the future. In 2009, if we recall, the opposition at that time called the government a rural killer, so I would like to ask the pro-government people whether they will use it for themselves now, or if they will not be offended, I suppose, if we are to use it here with all due respect. If we want to see things realistic, then I think there are two variations. The first is that there really is no need for these railway lines, and I would stress very strongly that Jobbik does not take that position, but if we allow you to do so, then I have to assume that the government has kept these railway lines for years and pulled a lot of money out of the taxpayers' wallet every year. If the second option is true and we really need these lines, then, as I have already said, I have hinted at this before, the government spits on itself and, above all, on the people who live there. Unfortunately, there has been no government reaction to the leaked news, but it will only make the situation worse, so I call on the government to rebut this news here before the holiday, and if you do not know it, then really answer the question of whether you can rightly call yourself rural killers, as you did with the previous governments. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-15-317	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that a one-day session of the extraordinary session will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 11:23 p.m.]]
