u2014-11-21-0	Good morning. Dear Parliament, The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I welcome my fellow Members and dear guests who are monitoring our work. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that on Monday, by amending the agenda proposal, we have completed today's agenda by discussing two proposals in exceptional proceedings. The 2009 CLXII loan to the consumer follows a series of steps. Act on the amendment of laws and certain related laws and the joint joint debate on the amendment of the currency of each consumer loan contract and the resolution of issues relating to interest rate rules in an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, The submissions were submitted in T/1997. and T/2055. T/1997/4, T/1997/5. and T/2055/3. T/2055/4. you can find out about it on the website. I would like to announce that, at the same time as the summation amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, it also submitted a proposal for an over-extending amendment. Rule 63 of the Rules of Procedure In accordance with paragraph 4 of § 4, today's debate also covers its content and the need for it. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the timeframes for the joint debate.
u2014-11-21-1	Dear Parliament, According to the agreed agenda, the timeframes are 30 minutes, 30 minutes for the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee, 14 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 30 minutes for the speech by the lead speaker, the first independent representative to speak and the remaining independent members, 16 minutes for each political group, 60 minutes for the lectures, and 20 minutes for the rejoinder.
u2014-11-21-2	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is open. First, I give the floor to Minister of Justice László Trócsányi, the rapporteur of the item, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister. Mr. Secretary wants to give his speech on the pulpit.
u2014-11-21-3	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Following the formation of the government, as Minister of Justice, one of my most urgent tasks was to resolve the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers and consumers in general. Why was the Justice Department assigned this task? Because the government wanted to call on the instrument of law to resolve this extremely sensitive issue. The Curia, the Constitutional Court and even the Court of Justice of Luxembourg have also set out the limits through which the matter could be resolved. The legislator therefore had to be very careful and must be very careful in order to find a solution in a constitutional way. Even at the beginning of the process, we knew that the actors representing different interests would appreciate our work in different ways, accompanied by great social and international interest. During the search for and finding solutions, I have developed exemplary cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of National Economy, but in the preparatory negotiations, if necessary, consultations with the Hungarian National Bank and the National Court of Justice have also taken place in a constructive manner. The Bank's alliance has also continued to negotiate, we have tried to listen to everyone, but we have not allowed anyone to doubt that the government is acting as a protector of consumers' rights in order to ensure fair economic competition and taking action against abuse of dominant positions. I think that the result of the work of the last five months is that we have come to an end. Thank you for the attention and support of Members in solving a very serious social problem. For the sake of short chronology, allow me to remind you of the legal milestones that determine our work. The Curia 2/2014. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision No 8/2014, it would have raised constitutional concerns. Rule 73 of Parliament's decision, if the legislator had not acted. In this situation, the lack of legislation would have caused injury. In this way, the 2014 XXXVIII, which brought the Curia's decision to legal level, took place. Law 6 and the 2014 XL, closely related thereto. the development and adoption of a law. Before I present in detail the two new legislative proposals before Parliament, allow me to briefly explain to you how the implementation of previous laws stands. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the first instance, the Metropolitan Court has ruled on 67 cases. In 23 of these cases, the first instance decision became final. 4 cases continue after the Constitutional Court's decision of 11 November 2014 ( XXXVIII 2014). Dismissed judicial initiatives to establish the fundamental law of law. In a case, the Metropolitan Court has instructed the court to proceed with a new procedure. The second instance procedure took place on the Metropolitan Court in 44 cases, of which 39 were convicted. To date, 20 requests for review have been submitted. The Curia has already ruled on one case. On this basis, there is every hope that the settlement will be completed within the original deadline. This hope is also supported by the fact that the Constitutional Court rejected judicial initiatives by its decision of 11 November 2014, as I mentioned. I do not dispute that there are yet uncritical motions before the Constitutional Court, but I trust that we will have favourable decisions on these proposals in the foreseeable future. We are in favour of constitutionality, so we have put constitutional laws before this House. I would then like to go into more detail to present two new legislative proposals submitted to Parliament. The two laws are supposed to be independent of each other, but still closely linked. At the same time as implementing the Accounting Act? In accordance with our earlier promise? We have drawn up a bill to facilitate the transition to a fair banking system. If Parliament adopts it, the law will enter into force at the beginning of next year. The bill on forinting is closely linked to all of this, which sets out the new fair contractual terms for foreign currency loans covered by the settlement. [[9.10]] For contracts not covered by the accounts and for any newly concluded consumer loan contract, therefore, the bill on fair banks sets out the new conditions and the draft forinting acts do the same in relation to the contracts covered by the settlement. In order to create protection at European level, the Accounting Act obliges banks to pay back amounts unfairly taken from Hungarian consumers in the last decade. As a result, we hope that the outstanding debts and repayments will be reduced by 25-30 percent. It's about back money that the banks illegally took from their clients. The legislative proposals that we are discussing are also extremely important because they contain guarantees that there will be no future situation where banks can act in an unwittingly unfair way. As a combined effect of the Accounting Act and the draft forinting Act, the repayments of foreign exchange taxpayers will be significantly reduced. The instalment depends essentially on three factors: the size of the capital debt, the maturity and interest. As a combined effect of the two laws, capital debt and interest are also greatly reduced. Of course, the extent to which the repayment is reduced also depends on the behaviour of banks towards debtors in recent years. On this basis, in some exceptional cases, payments have been reduced only to a lesser extent. This can be done if the debtor took out the loan later, so the exchange rate risk was lower in his case and the bank acted less unfairly against him. However, in the vast majority of people, the decline in repayments will reach 25-30 percent, since they took on the loan in the past, so they were forced to bear the exchange rate risk to a greater extent. In drawing up the legislative proposals, the principle of the government and the Ministry of State making the proposals was that Hungarian consumers should not enjoy lower protection in credit contracts than their fellow citizens in the EU. To this end, we have reviewed the regulations in the countries of Western Europe that seem to be the most significant to us. Our aim was to put Hungarian consumers in the same position as consumers in the home country of the Austrian and German banks operating in Hungary. We have examined the solutions of Austrian and German law, and we have carefully analysed the judicial practices of these countries. Due to the specific nature of consumer credit, the European legislator addressed certain issues of consumer credit contracts already in 1987 and subsequently in 2008 at the level of a directive. This means that this area is partly harmonised within the EU and also binds the Hungarian legislator. Directive 48 of 2008 is the Hungarian legislature CLXII of 2009 on credit to the consumer. put it into Hungarian law by law. However, since the entry into force of the main provisions of the Act on 11 June 2010, Hungarian judicial practice on consumer credit has also evolved significantly. This is primarily due to the widespread spread of foreign exchange lending; many consumer protection issues first arose in Hungarian judicial practice in connection with foreign exchange-based consumer lending contracts. Further legislative steps to better protect debtors are also supported by economic indicators. According to the data of the Hungarian National Bank, the volume of consumer loans exceeded HUF 6802 billion on 30 June 2014. Of which HUF 3139 billion is the value of HUF-based consumer loans and HUF 3662 billion is the size of foreign currency loans. In order to increase the level of consumer protection, the legislator sought to address the following main issues in the bill to facilitate the transition to a fair banking system: making the pre-contractual information obligation more effective, laying down new provisions on the modification of the credit agreement, rules on the free termination of the credit contract by the consumer, the changeover rules on new contractual conditions, the 2014 XL on settlement. provisions amending law. The obligation to provide information is regulated in detail by Directive 2008/48/EC, so these provisions also bind the Hungarian legislator. However, it is possible for the Member State legislator to specify the obligation to provide information required by the Directive in order to make consumer information more effective. On this basis, the bill states that, prior to the conclusion of the contract, the creditor and the credit intermediary are obliged to provide the consumer with information on the basis of which the consumer can assess whether the credit to be used meets his needs and his financial capacity. In doing so, the consumer should be provided with the information necessary to compare the various offers in order to enable the consumer to make an informed decision on the possible conclusion of the credit agreement. The fact that the creditor is obliged to make the model text of credit contracts available on his website also facilitates informed decision-making by the consumer. In addition, in the case of the application for a mortgage and real estate financial lease, the creditor shall make the draft contract available to the consumer at least seven days before the contract is concluded without the consumer's request. In order to ensure that this brief, concise and understandable information is provided in a uniform form and manner, the Minister of National Economy is authorised to lay down the detailed rules in the Regulation. The bill on unilateral treaty amendment? in accordance with the previous and current rules of the Banking Act? declares that only the following elements of the contract may be unilaterally modified for the consumer: interest rate, interest rate, costs and charges. Other conditions may not be unilaterally altered for the consumer. The bill regulates the possibility of unilateral amendment on a maturity basis. This means that different rules apply to loans with a maturity of less than three years and loans with a maturity of more than three years. The bill distinguishes two types of loans with a maximum maturity of three years: fixed rate loans, loans linked to a reference rate. In the case of fixed-rate loans, no interest rate increase shall take place during the entire term. In the case of loans linked to a reference rate, is the level of the reference interest rate? BOBOR OR LIBOR? Although it may vary, this is an automatic change, i.e. not a unilateral change in the legal sense of the contract. The bill also requires that the reference rate be published on the website of the Hungarian National Bank. In the case of loans linked to the reference rate, the other component of the interest rate level shall be the interest rate premium, which shall be fixed for these short-term loans, i.e. shall not be changed during the maturity period. This means that, in the case of loans with a maturity of less than three years, one-sided contractual amendments cannot be made to the consumer in a detrimental way, but only the level of the reference interest rate may be changed. The bill also differentiates two main categories for contracts with a maturity of more than three years: loans linked to a reference rate and loans fixed in floating rate interest periods of at least three years. In addition, creditors have, of course, the possibility of providing loans with a maturity of more than three years as fixed rate loans to consumers. In the case of loans linked to the reference rate, the level of the reference rate may vary for loans with a maturity of more than three years. However, this does not constitute a unilateral treaty amendment here either. In these credit contracts, as opposed to contracts with a maturity of less than three years, the interest rate premium may also change. At the same time, the condition is that the creditor fixes the interest rate premium in advance in a period of at least three years. The interest rate premium can therefore be unilaterally adjusted only after the interest rate period has expired. A further condition is that the creditor determines in the contract an interest rate change indicator to which the borrower must be informed before the contract is concluded. [[9.20]] For variable rate loans, the interest rate level may also be adjusted after the interest period of at least three years. A further condition is the determination of the interest rate change index, i.e. an objective index. On this basis, the creditor is entitled to unilaterally modify the contractual interest rate after the interest period, on the basis of the rate of exchange published and recorded in the credit agreement. The interest rate conversion indicator is the ratio linked to the refinancing costs of lending and the provision of the loan. A further condition is that it should be outside the business of the creditor and express a change in circumstances which cannot be foreseen by the creditor, independent of it, which cannot be avoided. The creditor shall not have any influence on the interest rate conversion rate. This increases transparency and predictability, and it can be excluded that the lending financial institution intends to pass on to debtors the losses resulting from the possible mismanagement. In the credit agreement, interest rates or interest rates may be adjusted up to five times over the entire term. The creditor shall notify the National Bank of Hungary of one or more interest rate changes, the interest rate change index and the reference rate which he intends to apply. The creditor may, of course, use only one indicator and one reference rate in a contract. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank publishes these data on its website. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank only takes a separate decision to refuse publication, against which there is a legal remedy. In addition to interest, the creditor may unilaterally modify the fee and the cost, adversely to the consumer. In this respect, the bill states that the amendment must be proportionate to the increase in costs. The bill also seeks to help the situation of debtors in difficulty by determining the highest rate of interest on late payment. As a new provision, the bill also states that if the conditions on which the unilateral amendment of the credit agreement is based require a reduction in interest, fees and costs, the creditor must enforce that reduction. In contrast to the current banking regulations, the bank must not only reduce interest, fees or costs in such cases, but also reduce them. The bill to facilitate the transition to a fair banking system responds to the situation that banks have a dominant position vis-à-vis the borrower in the consumer credit market. Asymmetry, on a mass scale, could jeopardise not only the stability of households but also the stability of the economy as a whole, and even social peace. In this context, therefore, the bill seeks to approximate the positions of creditors and debtors in order to restore symmetry. At the same time, the bill brings about a good combination of domestic and European law, giving an example of how the adoption of the European Union acquis is not a bureaucratic burden, but a higher level of protection for Hungarian people and families. The bill on forintisation was also developed in close connection with the Act on Accounting and the bill on the transition to the fair banking system. The common objective of both legislative proposals is to ensure that the social dimension of foreign exchange loans is not once again developed. We also had to consider constitutional, economic and other aspects when drawing up the Forinting Act. On this basis, it was decided that the forinting was extended to foreign exchange or foreign currency-based consumer mortgage agreements and then to financial leasing contracts for real estate. The main explanation for this is that mortgage loans are typically backed by real estate providing housing for the debtor, which is a sufficient constitutional reason for the intervention. Another important argument for the forinting of mortgage-based loans is that the vast majority of them are long-term contracts. The majority of non-mortgage loans, on the other hand, are short-term and thus have a much lower exchange rate risk. To make this clear, 90 percent of non-mortgage loans will disappear within six years. However, I would like to point out in particular that debtors of non-mortgage loans can also agree on forinting with banks, regardless of whether they are bound by the law. In addition to the constitutionally justified mandatory forintation, the bill provides for a wide range of voluntary decision-making for consumers. About 85 percent of mortgage-backed foreign currency loans will continue to exist in six years' time against loans not subject to mandatory forintisation, and even about two thirds of the contracts will last more than ten years. In these cases? because of a very wide range of debtors subject to exchange rate risk? mandatory forinting is justified from a constitutional point of view. However, it is still possible for the consumer to decide whether to stay in the previous currency, provided that the initial interest rate level will be higher than the previous interest rate level after the forinting. However, this circle will be very narrow, it can affect the Yankees and some VIP-crediters, who could take on the loan with very low interest rates. The primary objective of the bill is therefore to eliminate the exchange rate risk on mortgage lenders. On this basis, financial institutions will be required to convert the total debt to a HUF claim in respect of foreign exchange or foreign currency mortgage agreements under the terms and conditions laid down by law, with a deadline and according to the procedures specified therein. Within mortgage loans, the provisions of the bill shall apply in the following two categories: remaining consumer loan contracts for which financial institutions are subject to a clearing and reimbursement obligation under previous laws; debts under consumer credit contracts which have already been terminated, which have not yet been excluded from their accounting records by financial institutions. The scope of the bill does not cover debt on the basis of a credit card, a payment account or a housing debt on the basis of a public interest subsidy, since these contracts are not covered by the former laws. Overall, it can therefore be said that the bill concerns foreign currency or foreign currency-based mortgages concluded after 1 May 2004. The main rule of this round is that forinting is mandatory, except in the case where the initial interest rate level is less favourable to the consumer than before the forinting. So the bill - if certain conditions are met? it also provides consumers with the option of choice in this context. Another important task of the bill is to regulate the transition to new fair contractual terms in consumer credit contracts affected by settlement. In view of this, the bill not only regulates the forinting of consumer credit debts, but also settles the initial interest rate level after the forinting. It also lays down specific rules to protect the interests of consumers when amending the contract. The bill sets out the most favourable financial conditions for consumers by considering all the circumstances. Individual contracts are amended by law. The legislator also has a constitutional right and obligation to intervene in such a way as to be in the mass of contracts in certain exceptional situations. The conditions for this are set out in various points of the Constitutional Court's already cited decision. According to this, the legislator is entitled to amend the existing and permanent contractual relations if the material change in circumstances after the conclusion of the contract affects a social dimension, i.e. a large number of contracts. In preparing for legal intervention in the Treaties, we have sought to ensure that the regulations applied comply with all the constitutional requirements of necessity and proportionality. Forinting foreign currency loans is a legitimate constitutional objective which meets the requirements of the Constitutional Court's decision. On this basis, the law lays down new conditions for the contracts involved in the forinting. The determination of the exchange rate and the starting rate after conversion is also highlighted in the new contractual terms. I am aware that the determination of the exchange rate has triggered disputes. However, with regard to the exchange rate, the Government is bound by the decision of the Constitutional Court of 8/2014 on the one hand and the two decisions of the Curia on the legal units of foreign exchange credit on the other. On this basis, the exchange rate risk is borne by the debtors. Does the Constitutional Court also have great importance in establishing that the amendment by law is an amendment to a contract? as far as possible? the fair interests of both parties must be taken into account, i.e. such a change of contract should also seek a balance of interest under changed circumstances. [[9.30]] The government was obliged to set a close exchange rate on the market or on the market. Otherwise, there would be a risk that before international courts, the Hungarian State would lose its lawsuit against the banks, and there might also be doubts about the constitutionality of the legislation itself. In order to avoid this, the Ministry of National Economy agreed the exchange rate with the Hungarian Banking Association on the basis of the government's mandate. Another important element of the contracts that are amended by law is the determination of the starting interest rate level. The bill also sets out the best solution for customers in this respect. In this respect, it should also be pointed out that interest on foreign exchange and foreign currency-based loans until recently was much lower than that of forint loans for the same purpose at the same time. In view of this, it also had to be borne in mind that forint-loans should not be more disadvantaged than debtors of foreign exchange or foreign currency-based loans. The interest rates set out in the bill also reflect this aspect. Financial institutions will be responsible for carrying out tasks related to the modification of contracts and the notification of customers, with regard to which no specific fees or costs may be charged to customers. It is also important to point out that, according to the bill, in certain cases, in the spirit of voluntary decision-making, the consumer has the option to ask for no conversion to forints. Retail groups with regular income in foreign currency may also benefit from this option and would be entitled to borrow foreign currency on the basis of the rules in force today, on the basis of their income. Even if the remaining maturity of the foreign currency or foreign currency-based mortgage loan is short, the forint is not mandatory. In conjunction with this, I welcome the proposal of the Legislative Committee of the Parliament to allow the consumer to take advantage of the possibility of non-forinting in contracts with a maximum of six years of remaining term, i.e. contracts that expire on 31 December 2020 at the latest. This is also due to the fact that long-term loans have a far higher exchange rate risk than short-term or medium-term loans. These are the cases for which there is a sufficiently important argument that the law provides the credit lenders with the possibility to make a decision. On this basis, the conversion to HUF will not be mandatory for these retail groups, i.e. these lenders may remain in foreign exchange or foreign currency-based debt at their own discretion. However, the interests of these consumers are also protected by the bill, as it sets the ceiling for the interest rate and interest premium applicable by the lender. For creditors who do not wish to maintain their contracts under modified conditions, the bill provides for a right of termination free of exceptional fees and costs. This will also allow them to redeem their former foreign currency or foreign currency-based mortgages with another loan on terms that are more favourable to them. The legislator supports the conclusion of these new, more favourable legal arrangements for consumers, with financial advantages for both the population and financial institutions. In order to ensure uniform, transparent, verifiable and cost-effective implementation of the provisions relating to a large number of credit holdings, the bill states that, by virtue of the law, the terms of the individual credit agreements concerned will be amended without the parties' involvement and that the scope of the modification of the contract will be determined. Finally, I would also like to point out that credit lenders who consider that their legal obligations have not been or have not been properly fulfilled by the financial institution have not followed the legislative methodology for calculating repayment instalments or converting interest rates, may use the rules of review or redress under the Accounting Act. The two legislative proposals before the Parliament are also linked by the fact that the date of the transition for both is 2015. 1 February 2006 This means, therefore, that the banks will have to change the new terms of the contract with this date, that the turning point of the forint will also be this day, and that all notifications will be made to consumers in March-April. By setting this deadline, the legislator intends to give banks sufficient time to prepare. Our aim is therefore to ensure that legal certainty is maintained in the future, thus avoiding the emergence of similar, irresponsible situations. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the Government's new measures to protect its debt and to adopt the legislative proposals that have been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-4	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now the report of the Legislative Committee and the presentation of the minority opinion formulated in committee, in total 30 minutes, with 14 minutes to express the minority opinion. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Committee was discussed by T/1997. No CLXII of 2009 on credit to the consumer. Act T/2055 amending Act T/2055 and Act T/2055 amending certain related laws The draft law on the modification of the currency of each consumer loan contract and the settlement of issues relating to interest rate rules is also submitted. The Committee tabled 22 amendments, with 22 yes and 12 abstentions, to both proposals without voting against. As has been said at the committee meeting, since April 2014, this is the third and fourth law to settle the situation of foreign exchange lenders. If you like, he'll bring justice to the bank victims. Following the decision of the Curia, the National Assembly noted that banks acted unfairly against their clients in terms of both the exchange rate gap and the unilateral interest rate increases. The resulting detailed rules were then established. As a result of the so-called Banking Clearing Act, the victims will reduce both their capital debt and their repayments in the near future. This is calculated as a total burden of HUF 1000 billion for the banks. These two recently adopted laws are the end of the past and, we trust, compensation to those who walked in or, if you will, to those who have been forced into the trap of the banking system. The two proposals before us represent security and predictability for the future. The amendment of the law on credit to the consumer lays the foundations of the fair banking system in Hungary. The amendment essentially concerns two main issues, on the one hand, laying down new rules for unilateral modification of the credit agreement and, on the other hand, laying down more detailed and precise rules on the obligation of the creditor to provide information before the conclusion of the contract. T/1997 by the Legislative Committee. The Commission's proposal for an amendment to the legislative proposal contains text-focusing proposals and eliminates coherence problems. Two main criteria for credit contracts, predictability and security are provided by T/2055. This is also a bill for the forinting of foreign currency loans. I would like to point out here that the HUFing of the retail currency and foreign currency loans is in the general interest of society. On the one hand, because it eliminates the unilateral foreign exchange risk of credit lenders in residential mortgage agreements and on the other hand, because it promotes the stability of the country's financial intermediary system. Accordingly, the submitted bill, closely linked to the legislative measures already outlined to improve the situation of the debtors of consumer loans, sets out the legal technique, procedures and conditions of the forinting process, the transition of the consumer credit contracts involved in the forinting process to the new contractual terms laid down in the law on those fair banks. [[9.40]] I think it is important to point out that, in the case of loans where the proposed legislation allows creditors under certain conditions and at the request of debtors, the former foreign currency or foreign currency loan terms may remain. This option applies to those whose credit agreement is terminated within six years. In order to protect the interests of consumers, the legislation also sets the upper limit of the interest rate and interest premium applicable by the lender. In order to sum up the Legislative Committee, this is 4.5 per cent instead of the 5 per cent originally submitted in the case of a consumer mortgage loan for residential purposes, and 6.5 per cent instead of 7 per cent in the case of a non-residential consumer mortgage loan. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, in the case of the Commission's amendments, there were no votes against by the opposition. Therefore, with regard to the final vote, I would like to ask my fellow Members directly to support the proposal, which will clearly bring justice and will protect citizens from various bank tricks in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member Tamás Attila Harangozó, who will present the minority opinion in the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, yesterday there was a debate in the TAB, and even though we have drawn attention on a point of order, that this is a very strange procedure with regard to the continuing hasty legislation, that in this exceptional procedure the detailed debate in the committee will be carried out first? Did this happen yesterday? It's like we're actually having a general debate about the law here today. Therefore, the debate on the basis of the amendments is carried out by Parliament before it even discusses whether this law is good as good. We don't think it's normal, but we understand it's in the new, fidesz house rule, it's possible, you've decided to do it, so you do it. That was the more negative part of the point of order. The more positive part was that there was indeed a debate at yesterday's committee meeting and, therefore, as a minority opinion, I can give a long enough account of what was going on and what was said at the committee meeting. First of all, it is worth knowing that there has been only one amendment proposal in substance for the law, which came from parliamentary parties and factions. The TAB's own amendment proposal? Which, let me continue to live with the suspicion suit, Minister, I understand that you complimented me here, that there are good things in it, but let me take advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that you and your ministry sent it to the TAB, and not the TAB staff, the committee staff, have dwarfed these amendments. So, apart from this, there was only one substantive amendment proposal, this was the amendment proposed by the MSZP, which suggested what we had demanded in recent months and years that this exchange rate be applied to the conversion rate in April 2010, i.e. during the last period of the MSZP government, at the current exchange rate at the time of the transfer-take-over, when the Orbán government came into power. To be understood by viewers, foreign exchange lenders, this would amount to HUF 180-185 for the Swiss franc and HUF 265 for the euro. There was no other suggestion. This was voted out by the fidesz majority after a long debate. In this debate, one of the speakers at Fidesz said that several of the Fidesz people attacked that the exchange rate could not be dealt with at all. One of their fellow Members said that the external circumstances affected the exchange rate, that the forint weakened due to external circumstances, and that is why the details increased. For its part, the MSZP has said that it must be made clear, ladies and gentlemen, here in plenary, and there we have said that many of these external circumstances have a name. For example, one is called Lajos Kósa and the other is called Peter Szijjártó. We have lived here in this country, and we remember precisely that because of their irresponsible and demagogic political announcements, the extent of the damage that people have paid each month can be measured in percentages, in thousands and tens of thousands of families. If we look at the overall impact of these irresponsible comments on the exchange rate, then, in fact, the damage that people have paid for it can be measured in tens and hundreds of billions. The third name is György Matolcsy as an external circumstance. George Matolcsy and his economic policy, for example? And was there a big debate on this, too, on the committee? According to some representatives of the committee, the clear theft of the private pension fund payment of HUF 3000 billion, which, by the way, did not result in a reduction in the public debt of the hundred percent, which was the main reason why the previous government was condemned by the Fidesz representatives at this committee meeting. So you managed to spend this money by having a real effect? Otherwise, should there have been a reduction of at least 10 percent? We didn't see it. And it is the economic policy of György Matolcsy that he proudly says as President of the National Bank of Hungary that the current exchange rate of over HUF 300 and the current exchange rate of Swiss francs are indeed good. I'm sure it's good for him, because he could spend 200 billion on foundations. I'm sure it's good for him, because he bought a luxury palace as president of the MNB with money from the people, and it's certainly good for him because he bought a castle as president of the MNB. I would like to make it clear to you that this money is, in particular, an exchange-rate gain from foreign exchange lenders per family per person, which György Matolcsy has now spent on various luxury expenses. What we're seeing is outrageous. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. ? Márius Révész: Time!]] And the point is? And that's what we told you? That if there is a April 2010 exchange rate today, ladies and gentlemen, we are not negotiating this law. Because there's no foreign exchange lending problem then. Because if the Swiss franc had a price of less than 180 HUF or at least 200 HUF, it would still be a much cheaper product in Hungary today than the current forint loan. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] The other one we're talking about? And I look at my fellow Member to calm down, because I still have a 14-minute window, and I'm going to use it pretty much. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Unfortunately!]] ? The role of banks and government in this and the distribution of this. Indeed, my fellow pro-government Members are right about that, and it seems that they can carve about 30 percent of the repayments and even the debt of capital by saying that the banks are unfair and, in our view, totally unacceptable one-sided increases and their cost accounting are now being knocked down on banks. It's okay. I would add that they can do so on the basis of the decision of the Hungarian court, in this respect the law is in order, the decision made by the Hungarian court, which is otherwise expressly to be praised and karakan, is being implemented by you with this law. But they won't tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that since 2010, an average citizen, an average family, has increased their payoff by 70 percent! Some people over 100, some under 70, on average 70 percent of their repayments and burdens to families, and, yes, one third of them are given by the dishonesty and insolence of banks, and by taking advantage of the weaknesses of the most deprived people? Yeah, do you have to say that? But you forget to talk about 70 percent of your economic policy and your exchange rate policy. Once again, it's not a quack, it's a simple person who understands. If the Swiss francs were around 180 HUF, he would pay the same amount of debt today as in 2010 or except for the brazenness of the banks, but now the law will fix this. This is therefore unacceptable, and this is why our amending proposal is about what the banks want to beat down on the banks, which the government and Fidesz have to beat, and that is where they have to beat down and stand up for having people pay these costs every month at this rate for four to five years. My fellow Member Balla says that with this solution, the socialists would throw people before the banks and the courts, because the court has decided that there is no way to convert loans to HUF at a different rate than the current rate. From that point of view, let me say two things. I don't know why Mihály Varga himself said the opposite a few months ago, and Fidesz in the summer and the municipal campaign before the municipal election. Secondly, what shows most of all how untenable and false this position is, is that a few years ago, you made the guaranteed solution of the final repayment by law at a guaranteed rate of 180 HUF at the statutory rate. [[9.50]] And I don't think...? we also said that our biggest problem was that the wealthier people were able to pay off, for example, a large number of Members of Parliament were able to get rid of their credibility. The really needy couldn't take advantage of this opportunity, but at 180 forints laid down by law, you made it, and I didn't see any lawsuits, for example, with Lajos Kósa or anyone... Now I'm telling him because he's heard that he was saved about 14 million dollars. I know that there were opposition and pro-government representatives who lived with it, but I didn't hear any of them being brought to justice by the bank, or any debtor who had made a final payment, would have been brought to justice by any bank that had otherwise been freed from its foreign currency loan at 180 forints. So that's not true? And please don't use that argument in the general debate? I don't think it's possible to take that step. There is certainly no legal reason why this step could be taken. My better fellow Members asked three questions at the meeting. One of them is, obviously, one of the most important issues of principle is whether there was a currency behind foreign exchange loans at all, and they claim that there was no currency, referring to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's statements, which, by the way, clearly shows that during this period there were not as many currencies in the country as there were foreign currency loans. The other thing they said was that Fidesz and the representatives of the present government were repeatedly told and asked to at least deny that between 1998 and 2002, Mihály Varga, the current finance minister, was personally and Zsigmond Járai, who allowed foreign exchange lending in Hungary from a legal point of view. This was, of course, at the stage of the debate, who was responsible for what from the previous period, but no one could deny it, because it was an objective fact, a foreign exchange loan for the population during that period. The Jobbik pushed another part. They discussed the responsibility of the opposition at all times and said that they were looking for the number of Fidesz speeches in Parliament between 2006 and 2009 on the need to stop foreign exchange lending immediately, and how irresponsible this is. They said, as it is in reality, that you will find zero or zero hits like this if you search anywhere. At least in their opinion? Am I quoting that almost literally? Fidesz betrayed the Hungarian people for the sake of two thirds, and therefore they have no right to point back to the period before 2010. In conclusion, I would like to point out the point once again in three points. If Fidesz could have kept the exchange rate of the forint only at the level of the last period of the MSZP government in the past period, then there is no foreign currency credit crisis in Hungary today? the first claim. Second, Fidesz and the government are also responsible for two thirds of the additional expenses of foreign exchange lenders and therefore do not assume responsibility with this law. Our third claim is that banks bear one third of the cost increase in these unfair costs, which is settled by this law, and this part of the law can and must be supported. In the end, are you going to do something or something? I hope so. I would like to end with what my fellow Member Bárándy may have said as his last speaker at the TAB, by influencing the debate in the next few hours. This is primarily addressed to the prospective speakers of the Fidesz-KDNP, given the legitimate role that feedback and the past eight years can play in this debate or not. This quote was made by Viktor Orbán, your Prime Minister, and his party president, on 23 July 2010, so several months after the change of government. He said, on a live television programme: "The Hungarian economy, and especially the Hungarian financial indicators, are in much better shape than most of the European Union's states. The level of public debt is more of a European middlefield. The position of the Hungarian economy among European economies is currently good. What's the matter with you? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said this after taking over the government in 2010. I very much hope that this will prevent any otherwise untidy feedback that has legitimacy in its constructional nature, but in the nature of concrete political responsibility, after such a two-thirds-year governance, there is no legitimacy in our conviction. The part of the bill that accounts, supports and supports banks, the other part of the bill, which, at the current rate, provides a particularly negative solution for Hungarians in terms of the forinting of foreign currency loans, cannot be supported. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-21-8	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. In the meantime, two-minute speeches are not possible. I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We cannot go without saying what we have heard here as a minority committee opinion. Of course, I think that was more of a party opinion. A few remarks, if I may, Congressman. One: the Hungarian National Bank is not a commercial bank, it does not lend this type of loan to anyone, which you spoke about, so it cannot have any profit on it. My second humble remark is that you are well aware of that? Because he was here in the summer when we had to make a law based on the court's law order? that the court has clearly stated that the exchange rate risk is borne by the borrowers. Otherwise, it has decided on unilateral and unfair interest rates and exchange rates, and this is what our two laws today are based on. Number three: very much as a politician? How can I say this? I smiled and watched the MSZ rub on Jobbik. So now we're practically going to have a coalition here, just so that every fidesz decision or every fidesz proposal can be drilled. Go on, just like that, so I support you in this way, because at least this way it becomes clear to everyone what policy is being pursued by the Hungarian left and whose interests it serves. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Lajos Korózs: Take care of the Fides, not us. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] And the fourth is about pointing to the past. I don't know who was talking back to 98. [[Lajos Korózs: Everyone will realize what a bunch of scoundrels you are and you will go to jail!]] all kinds ..........................................................................................................................................
u2014-11-21-10	[[To Lajos Korózs:]] I beg you, please, please, keep your voice down.
u2014-11-21-11	... bringing stupidity to the surface, but I think it would have been worth talking about the fact that there is a former minister sitting here among you, who, when the government terminated the preferential housing loan for Hungarian citizens in 2003, then he took 20, 30, or a few million, just two weeks before the termination, when this was still a big secret. But Bálint Magyar, who was also a minister at the time, also took advantage of this opportunity, and a number of their members of the government. So if anyone has anything to be ashamed of in this regard, it's just you. They also know very well that a significant part of these loans is not a random mortgage, because these people did not borrow for free use, but in 2003, I would like to stress once again that instead of a preferential housing loan, they were forced to purchase housing and to take on these mortgage-based foreign currency loans for house expansion. One more small point: we are sitting here today to conclude the process of this lending process that has been customary for long, long years, and I think that the process of rocking society we are talking about is why the two laws that we are debating here will be born next week. But it's not unprecedented. So you can talk about the last five years here, but in 2010, when people decided to give us the right authority to put the country's affairs in order, we were also authorized to do so, you are absolutely right. But there's a lot more to fight around here. Yesterday I told you about the increase in government debt from 56 percent to 80.3%. I'm talking about 2002-2010, which is why it wasn't an easy stunt to start this debt. It was not an easy stunt either that the governments were practically put on the brink of bankruptcy by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, and something had to be done with the HUF 1200 billion government debt that the government was able to fully settle by the end of 2013. [[10.00]] The same is the case in this currency loan trap, which otherwise affects not only foreign exchange loans, but also forint loans. In 2011, we first started to deal with this in substance here in front of Parliament. By then, we have gathered as much information as possible, testing, as many alternatives as could be used to start the continuous work that we have been doing since 2011 to achieve the goal of once and for all issuing these loans, eliminating the financial risk that the presence of these loans in Hungary represents. The first was the law on final repayment. Just what's happened so far, I'd like to tell you. 170,000 residential loans were repaid between September 2011 and February 2012. This meant a total of HUF 1355 billion. The bank's currency loss due to the end-payment was HUF 370 billion. Technically, the banks returned HUF 370 billion to the people with their final repayment. We mention 268 billion in this regard because they were able to credit 102 billion from the bank tax, by the way, from the special tax that the government asked the banks to contribute to the common burden. The average amount of loans repaid was HUF 5.8 million. So if we project it on 170,000 people, 170,000 families, the families were freed from debt of nearly 6 million forints. That doesn't mean they were the rich ones. Anyone with a loan of HUF 6 million will pay back HUF 6 million at a Swiss franck rate of HUF 180 is not the rich man category. Most of them, by the way, bought residential dwellings in residential areas. Is this in Csepel? We know that, because during my mayor's office, we even developed a construction for those who don't have the right cash to get it? a HUF 150 million fund was created by the municipality of Csepel. Overall, one debtor received a discount of HUF 2 million and HUF 176 thousand. So what people could save was almost 2.2 million forints. About that much about the end of the payoff. The following legislation was the introduction of a price barrier. September 30th, 2014? That's what we've heard, isn't it? 185 962 entered the price barrier. In the collection accounts, the total amount of credit is almost HUF 28 billion, HUF 27 billion and HUF 942 million. The debtors, a debtor on average, with this collection account, could postpone the payment of a debt of HUF 161 407. There are some very serious numbers here. In this price barrier, foreign exchange-credit customers were exempted from payment of interest above the fixed exchange rate of HUF 47 billion until September. This gives them a discount of 273 million 539 thousand forints. So making the legislation of the exchange barrier here in Parliament has also contributed to giving a lot of people the opportunity to breathe, to pay for it, not to get caught in the trap of moving their house above their heads. And one more, you'll be surprised: I will also speak positively about the National Asset Manager. Thank you very much for informing the National Asset Manager. I'm going to give you some numbers about the past period, and you're going to be completely surprised. The National Asset Manager was also established by law, and his aim was to allow those who have been insolvent for a long time, so that they cannot pay, are socially dependent, to enter into this new system, where National Asset Management Ltd. is. buy their property for the State and immediately conclude a contract with them, namely an indefinite contract in which they can hire their apartments back at a very low price. This low price is 8979 HUF on average. So that's how much you can rent the apartment back, and you can rent a house for 18 207 forints in the apartment park in Ocsa. Out of the 80 houses, they live in 79. Let me give you some more data: August 31, 2014? Did that surprise me, too? a total of 23 499 declarations of intent have been adopted. The acceptance of the letter of intent means that the entitlement has already been examined, and these people have ceased this danger above their heads at the moment so that they can implement it against them. So the execution has been suspended. The properties you bought? Is this about the rich people again? The average purchase price is HUF 3 million 640 thousand, so the rich people benefited from the National Asset Manager. I suppose everyone in this story understands the irony. What is unbelievable, however, is that, overall, these people were freed from a loan of almost HUF 100 billion. Nearly 100 billion forints of credit! It can also be said that this action has cost the budget 46 billion forints so far. The budget, the central budget, supported this work by the National Asset Manager. Each spent HUF 2 was replaced by 16 cents from the loans. So this is as far as we've been in the past. Everyone knows that precisely because the courts were simply not brave enough, or the Hungarian court system was not brave enough to get involved in this case. We remember that when we asked for the decision of the court, even when they asked the European Court of Justice to ask whether a decision could be made in Hungary for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Well, it could have been, because when this decision was made and Parliament was absolute in this House, the way was opened up, the opportunity to do what the two legislative proposals before us today, and the previous law, the law on the accountability of banks, will allow us to do. The purpose of all three laws is to have a plural purpose, on the one hand to get these loans out of the Hungarian credit market once and for all, to strengthen our financial independence. The other goal is that people who have not yet been able to take advantage of the previous option are exactly 644 thousand, and 463 thousand of them are mortgaged, so it will be mandatory for this 463,000 family, but, of course, the others who have not taken up mortgages but free use can also enter in, but they will also enter in after a special deal with the bank. This goal is to make these people pay 25-30 percent less each month, save 25-30 percent minimum, keep the money saved on average for at least 2 million forints, and these two legislative proposals and the two previous legislative proposals will clearly guarantee this. If I may, I would like to give you some information about an average loan. At the time of the contract, there was a loan of, say, 43 thousand Swiss francs, equivalent to HUF 6.8 million, which now means a capital debt of 8.8 million in September 2014 and will be reduced to HUF 7 million after the settlement and forinting, so the savings here will be 1 million forints. [[10.10]] Now I would not talk about credit costs or reference interest rates, but about monthly repayments. The September 2010 monthly repayment is HUF 90,000, and now, after we adopt this law and the forinting takes place at the beginning of 2015, it will decrease to HUF 64,000, which means a decrease of HUF 27 thousand. But, let's say, for a loan of 66 thousand Swiss francs, which amounts to approximately HUF 10 million, the capital debt in September is HUF 13 million 500 thousand, this will be reduced to HUF 10 million 900 thousand, and the monthly loan will decrease from HUF 140,000 to HUF 90,000, so there is a saving of HUF 50,000; I was talking about house loans, and the use of free use will decrease in a similar way. Minister told me the most important parameters of the law. I would like to add two things that we would like to make this more stringent. So Fidesz has a proposal to reduce the lower limit of the interest rate premium by 100 basis points and the upper limit by 50 basis points, precisely so that banks cannot abuse it, they cannot still play with this interest rate premium, they cannot corner the credible. Or those who choose? of course, can they do so under the law? This is not 12 months, but we are extending the term until 2020. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, together with the four laws that have been passed during the past governance, and the two other two laws that have already been passed during this period, to adopt these other two laws, in order to rescue the foreign exchange credentials once and for all from the trap into which the banks and social policy have lured them, to put an end to this lending once and for all, I ask you to support these two legislative proposals here in this House. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that the group's position was presented by two speakers. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Whatever the government says and whatever the head speaker of Fidesz says, this bill cannot cover up the fact that Fidesz and the government have deceived people twice in recent months. For the first time, he deceived people when he promised them that the forinting would not take place at the market rate. As Minister Mihály Varga has made such a statement personally in recent months, Antal Rogán has also made a statement in recent months, and only a few weeks ago Lajos Kósa made it clear in a clear moment that the forinting of foreign currency loans at the market rate is not possible, because it would not be fair for foreign exchange lenders. And now you have submitted the law that refuted these speeches of ministers, government members, factions and representatives, and you have made it clear that they have lied to the people so far, but will they do so at the market rate? if the bill is adopted unchanged by the Parliament? Forint this loan. Second, they lied to people when a responsible member of the government, Mihály Varga, said that this HUF will not be binding on the client. This lie lived for a few hours, and the government spokesperson himself put Minister Mihály Varga back in place when he said that, yes, very few people can get away with it, under special circumstances, to avoid the provision of mandatory forinting as the main rule. Now you're talking nonsense here, and you're trying to make it look like you can't really do anything else because it's the mansion's decision to equal justice. [[Németh Szilárd István: Legal Units!]] That's what you're supposed to do. This is another lie, ladies and gentlemen, because that is simply not true, because Antal Rogán, Mihály Varga, and Lajos Kósa were also educated, and so before that, when the same decision was already known, obviously they could not have said such lies in the knowledge of the decision. Not even because the item that you have said several times in this debate has been explained at the committee meeting that there is nothing to do after the Curia's decision but to forint at the market rate is quite simply not true. Let's get back to this division of rights decision. What, what question did the Mansion have to examine? Let's look at the first paragraph and the first point. Is that what the Mansion was looking at? Do I quote literally the reasons for the decision? , that:. The foreign exchange-based consumer loan contract as a type of contract is unfair because the price risk is borne by the consumer at a more favourable interest rate, without restriction. To this question is the Curia? By the way, is Peter Polt in line with the Attorney General? it expressed the view or decided that such a foreign exchange contract was not unfair; that is true. It follows that one-sidedly passing the consequences of this on to the banks cannot indeed be passed on. It is not true, however, that this would bind your hand in allowing foreign exchange lenders to forint these loans at a more favourable rate than the market with some solution and construction. I will give you two possible examples of this, and let us even start with a third one, which has already been mentioned here in the debate. Was there an example of this, by the way, the institution of end-payments, which? in connection with today's bill? It was an unfair move. More precisely, it is an unfair step that what has been made possible for those who have had a cash supply that they have been able to accept the end-payment scheme, you do not allow those who, for lack of money or for other reasons, could not make that decision at the time. Indeed, at a rate of HUF 180, i.e. not at the market rate, but at a rate of HUF 180, it was made possible by means of an arrangement to allow the part of foreign exchange lenders who could pay these loans to be repaid in a single amount. So there was a precedent in the past, even in the time of your government, that, by the way, if the state wants it, if the government wants it, if the Parliament makes the corresponding laws, then it might be possible to apply the exchange rate that is more favourable than the market. But you are also wrong, Mr Szilárd Németh, that the Hungarian National Bank could not play any part in this. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank is indeed not a commercial bank, it is not the main task of lending loans to people or businesses; I respectfully warn you that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is still engaged in such activities. For example, the small business preferential loan scheme, which you often say is a success, is a construction in which the Hungarian National Bank provides loans with significantly more favourable interest than the market, mainly for small businesses, for investments. So this statement doesn't correspond to reality either. Nor is it true that socialist-liberal governance would have abolished the State-funded loans with a prior preferential interest rate. It has not been removed, ladies and gentlemen; it is true that it has significantly limited its ceiling, by the way, because it is not necessarily a matter for the State to support the borrowing of taxpayers' money for people who want to build, say, 100 million flats out of it. However, we also allowed you to borrow this loan up to a ceiling of HUF 15 million, who would like this preferential loan form. Here, Szilárd Németh mentioned that we have a 2003 minister sitting in our ranks, who, by the way, took out a higher loan in an impeccable manner. [[10.20]] Well, I would like to say to the Member that I was a minister in 2003 and did not take on a loan of more than 15 million. I also took out Swiss franck loans and preferential loans in 2006. That's proof of two things. On the one hand, that we have not abolished this preferential arrangement, and, on the other hand, that Mr Szilárd Németh has just lied when he said that we have a minister sitting in our ranks who did not consider this preferential credit ceiling binding. I welcome the Congressman's apologies in the hallway, if you feel the strength to do so. [[Németh Szilárd István: Missed! I was thinking of something else. But it's okay.]] Let's get back to the bill. This bill, as I just said, by deceiving people, forces them to make a market rate forint. On the contrary, the position of the MSZP is that this should not be done in this form. Only in the form that Mihály Varga, Antal Rogán and Lajos Kósa used to say about this should the forint be carried out: at a significantly more favourable rate than the market. Moreover, the State must play a role in this, since it is true from the equality decision that the burden of this can not be passed on to the banks, unless it amends even the constitution with retroactive effect, because in the two thirds, as we know, nothing is impossible. The only reason we consider public engagement important is because the forint is basically coldened by your economic policy and irresponsible declaration. Your memory is rather selective; if you talk about the period before 2010, then there is only government responsibility, but there is, for example, no global economic crisis. If they talk about post-2010 processes, then of course everyone is responsible, and international processes are primarily, except for your governance. It's quite simply this way, in this form it's not true. Others have referred to it, my fellow Member Bellozó, for example, in today's debate, that the forint was first decided by Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó's statement. This happened in the spring of 2010, shortly after the start of your government, following the start of a government where you inherited a strong and stable forint from the socialist and liberal government. [[Márius Révész: Seven percent deficit!]] They inherited a strong and stable forint, my fellow Member, Márius Révész, who cannot handle himself and shouts in the Chamber; this meant 185 forints when talking about the Swiss franc. [[Márius Révész: Seven percent!]] It was 185 HUF, based on the official exchange rates of my fellow Member, the Hungarian National Bank, and 265 HUF for the euro. These were the exchange rates that, according to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, were the average of the month preceding your administration. This is not the opinion of our calculations, nor the opinion of analysts, it can be clearly and factually read from the series of data officially published by the National Bank. In the case of the Swiss franc, this exchange rate of 185 HUF went above 220 HUF when Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó spoke. And unfortunately, it has remained there permanently and has continued to deteriorate, thanks in particular to your truly unpredictable and ingenious economic policy. This economic policy has led to forint being the most vulnerable currency among non-euro area regional currencies, losing most of its value to all negative international developments, and regional currencies are much more stable than that. By the way, this can also be seen from the official exchange rates of the Hungarian National Bank. So our statement is that it was not the banks, it was not the client who destroyed the forint, but your government, the minister of György Matolcsy, and then the central bank's chairmanship contributed to this fact, which contributed significantly to the fact that the forint was weakened. True, György Matolcsy, as central bank president, was the beneficiary of this, and this discount allowed him to buy luxury estates, castles or office buildings, and he could spend more than HUF 200 million on teaching his own economics. It's quite simply unbearable! Instead of clapping hundreds of billions of forints spent on castles, luxury estates and educational programs, the Hungarian National Bank could rather work on how to play a role in helping foreign exchange lenders? Well, that would be the real goal. This would be a much more important task for the Hungarian National Bank than the education of György Matolcsy's economic views. On the other hand, the Hungarian National Bank does not play a role in the forinting, more precisely as it plays a role, which means an additional profit of at least HUF 100-150 billion, but it plays a role in the luxury financing of educational programmes that the Hungarian National Bank has much less to do with than the country's financial processes, including the foreign exchange credit problem. Ladies and gentlemen. One word, like a hundred, the MSZP insists that after the forint has been weakened primarily by the government's economic policy and the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank over the past four years, foreign exchange loans should be HUFed at the rate at which you started the government. This means HUF 185 for the Swiss franc and HUF 265 for the euro. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Deep economic foundation!]] We expect people to stop deceiving people, lying in the open, not pointing at the Mansion, not pointing at the courts. [[Zoltán Tessely: Sit down.]] However, they look at what they can do for people and are ready to play a public role in helping foreign exchange lenders to deal with their problems. That's what we expect, that's what we demand of the government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-21-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, the second lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-21-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give some thought to the bill on fair banks. The biggest mistake of the bill on fair banks is that it will be presented to Parliament in 2014 at the end of the year. I think that the possibility of creating a fair banking system was not dependent on any judicial decision, no decision of a Curia legal unit; this could have been done in recent years, brought to Parliament, and could have been negotiated, accepted, and the situation of foreign exchange creditors would have been much better. I think that this is a dirty deal with banks, because they meet the banks' demand to forint foreign exchange loans at the market rate; the banks have set this price for you to submit this bill here, and Parliament can negotiate or accept it. We think it's not eligible. Back to being late, Antal Rogán promised in autumn 2010 a package that would help troubled foreign exchange lenders. On 9 September 2010, János Lázár spoke in Tapolca about Parliament's already in September 2010 dealing with the extra help and representation of the interests of foreign exchange credentials. As I said, this was in 2010, and now it's November 2014. Four years have passed, and they still have not received the most needy, the most difficult-cased foreign exchange credentials who have been in trouble without their own faults and who really needed the government's help. The government's actions to date were inadequate, since, as I said, they did not affect the people in need of actual help, they helped. In the autumn of 2011, the final repayments were not aimed at those in trouble, but at those in a better way or with a creditable foreign exchange debt, who were able to repay at HUF 180. Although two of my fellow Members pointed out it, but I would like to emphasise once again that it is unacceptable and unacceptable that the final cancellations were able to break their currency loans at HUF 180, and now the much more difficult-cased foreign exchange lenders, who can no longer maintain their creditworthiness, will receive the debt that others have repaid at HUF 257 at the market rate for HUF 180. This is totally unacceptable! [[10.30]] Indeed, the exchange rate barrier has eased tensions, but it has not dealt with the non-payers, and, as many of my fellow Members have mentioned, the government's economic policy has significantly reduced the exchange rate of the forint. Let me put it a little more sharply, the previous Sándor Burány has already said that it is a lie that the Curia has ruled out the possibility of HUFing at or above the market rate. This is where Antal Rogán said in his speech before the agenda that he ruled it out. That's not true! It has been stated what is included in this legal unit decision. We do demand that the government deal with this, because if the unfair banks are accounted for, then face the unfair governance that has been the last four years, and the big difference with which the repayments have increased is now reduced, but the remainder is caused by your unfair governance, and this problem needs to be solved. There's one more thing I'd like to tell you about the fair bank law. You really wonder why such a law didn't exist, why you didn't make decisions that could really help. Then one remembers that, of course, you needed the revenue, you needed the financing of the prestige investments you started, you needed to ensure the balance of the budget, so you introduced a drastic bank tax. Somewhere in your mind, it's connected that they didn't solve the problem of foreign exchange credentialers, and they let the banks take unfair action to collect the bank tax from the profits that come in. This is also a dirty deal, I think, and it is totally unacceptable, instead of paying attention to the fact that the unpaid VAT of HUF 1000 billion per year would have been collected, attention would have been paid to the fact that, with the cooperation of the NAV, there would not be any corruption in VAT fraud that has now been discovered, and we can see that it has now damaged the budget by several thousand billion forints. Why didn't you focus on that? Then you could have made those decisions. No, you used the unfair use of banks to collect the bank tax and increase the revenue from the budget. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Is it wrong to take away the unfair profits of banks?]] Allow me to make a few specific points about the bill. According to the bill or the proposal on the forinting of legislation? And analysts confirm that? it would mean that banks would have to build the retail business from zero in six months, while important legislation is still lacking. We are concerned that in such a hurry, customers too are being spoiled, even though this series of measures is being taken for them. In February next year, banks will have to recalculate almost all living and closed residential foreign exchange loans over the past five years. This causes a gross loss of over HUF 900 billion to the banking sector. We know these facts. In principle, at the same time as the recalculation of loans, the HUFing of the nearly half a million foreign currency-based mortgage loans should also be carried out. This is what the bill is about, which became known on 16 November 2014. Following the forinting, banks should calculate new interest rates for each of the loans concerned, after which these loans should also be subject to the so-called fair banking rules. Once the loan has been recalculated and the forinting act has been adopted, the banks must inform the clients of the above. We think that this is a great deal of administrative burdens and a lack of full regulation, so there is a high risk because of the shortcomings, that the strict deadlines, the many things to do, can lead to inescapable errors in great haste, chaos, a mass of lawsuits, and a reduction in confidence already torn against banks. It is currently unclear to what extent the amendment could have an impact on credit institutions' willingness to lend, to what extent it will make it difficult for consumers to borrow, and, of course, to what extent it will affect the performance of the economy in terms of lending. We believe that, because of all these problems that arise in relation to the bill, consumer interests may be less effective and that we do not see the guarantees, the guarantee provisions that ensure that these consumer interests are met. As I mentioned before, the biggest problem is the delay of this law, could be a problem, and the entire banking process could turn into chaos, and as I started at the beginning, along with the bill of forintation? Is it also false that you have put together the debate on these two proposals? He points out that you have made an incontrovertible, unacceptable deal with the banks together with the submission of these two legislative proposals. As my fellow Members have said, they must keep their word and forint foreign exchange loans at a more favourable rate than the market, and ensure that not only the unfair procedure of the banks can benefit foreign exchange creditors, but they also compensate for the unfair procedure of your government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-21-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2014-11-21-17	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CLXII of 2009 on credit to the consumer Act T/1997 amending certain related laws The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1 because of the following facts and reasons. Consumer loans are a separate group of loans with a number of administrative and legal features. One of the most outstanding features is that the consumer is in a position to be economically and legally vulnerable to the lender, who is typically a professional bank. Consequently, in this context, the consumer is the weaker party, who is much less informed of the real content of the credit transaction than the creditor bank itself. The specificities of consumer credit have also been recognised by the European legislator and consumer credit contracts have therefore been drawn up in a directive. The first was Directive 87/102/EEC. This Directive has been replaced by Directive 2008/48/EC, which aims to help consumers to borrow more effectively. The need to create a new directive is that there have been significant changes in the credit markets and in the practice of lending over the last two decades. Over the last two decades, there has been a marked increase in the proportion and importance of consumer credit. Two decades ago, consumers paid almost everything in cash, so they rarely faced the problem of indebtedness. Today, on average, 15 percent of European consumers are indebted. However, in some countries this rate is significantly higher, for example in Greece it is almost 50 percent. Is this also due to the consumer credit market? Without mortgage loans? the year of the global financial crisis and the adoption of the new directive, i.e. EUR 800 billion in 2008. The Hungarian legislator is CLXII of 2009 on credit to the consumer. has transposed the provisions of the directive into Hungarian law. Since the entry into force of the main provisions of the Act on 11 June 2010, Hungarian judicial practice on consumer credit has also evolved significantly. [[10.40]] This is primarily due to the widespread spread of foreign exchange lending, since many consumer protection issues first arose in Hungarian judicial practice in connection with foreign exchange-based consumer lending contracts. On the basis of Hungarian and European law on consumer credit, the government and Parliament have taken measures to better protect the debtors of consumer credit contracts. Another part of this process is Fhtv. The Committee for Medicinal This new legislative step is supported by economic data. According to the data of the Hungarian National Bank, the volume of consumer loans reached the highest level so far on 30 June 2010, when their total value exceeded HUF 8647 billion. This value has decreased steadily over the past four and a half years, but the volume of consumer loans still exceeded HUF 6802 billion on 30 June 2014. Of these, HUF 3139 billion was the value of consumer loans, while HUF 3662 billion was the size of foreign exchange loans. On this basis, in order to increase the level of consumer protection within the law of credit contracts, the legislator is Fhtv. has drawn up a legislative proposal to amend it. The amendment of Fhtv in the proposed legislation concerns the following main issues: making the pre-contractual obligation to provide information more effectively, the new provisions on the modification of the credit agreement, the rules governing the consumer's free termination of the credit agreement, the special provisions on foreign exchange loans, the changeover rules for the admission of new contracts, the 2014 XL on settlement. provisions amending law. The obligation to provide information was regulated in detail in Directive 2008/48/EC, so these provisions also bind the Hungarian legislator. Is it possible, however, that the obligation to provide information required by the Directive is the Member State legislator? to make consumer information more effective? specify in more detail. This is justified by the fact that there is a significant level of information asymmetry on the part of the consumer in the credit agreement. On this basis, the bill states that, prior to the conclusion of the contract, the creditor and the credit intermediary are obliged to provide the consumer with information on the basis of which the consumer can assess whether the credit to be used meets his needs and his financial capacity. In doing so, the consumer should be provided with the information necessary to compare the various offers in order to enable the consumer to make an informed decision on the possible conclusion of the credit agreement. The fact that the creditor is obliged to make the model text of credit contracts available on his website also facilitates informed decision-making by the consumer. In addition, in the case of the application for a mortgage and real estate financial lease, is the creditor a draft contract? Even without the consumer's request to do so? must be made available to the consumer at least seven days prior to the conclusion of the contract. In order to ensure that this brief, concise and understandable information is provided in a uniform form and manner, the Minister of National Economy is authorised to establish the detailed rules in the regulation. In relation to the obligation to provide information, the bill also states that the rules of the new Ptk. on the obligation to cooperate and inform the parties should also apply when concluding consumer credit agreements. This means that a certain level of care and care can be expected from the consumer before the contract is concluded. However, it is clear that the consumer will only be able to do so if he has already received the appropriate information from the lender in advance. The bill on unilateral treaty amendment? in accordance with the previous and current rules of the Banking Act? declares that, in exceptional cases to the consumer, it may be amended only by specific rules, subject to strict conditions, only if this is the case. The right to unilaterally amend a creditor's contract shall be specified separately in the contract. A contractual clause which does not meet the requirements for unilateral amendment of the contract is null and void. The bill regulates the possibility of unilateral amendment on a maturity basis. This means that different rules apply to loans with a maturity of less than three years and loans with a maturity of more than three years. The bill distinguishes two types of loans with a maximum maturity of three years: fixed rate loans, loans linked to a reference rate. For fixed interest rate loans, no interest rate increase shall take place during the entire term. The level of the reference interest rate for loans linked to the reference rate? BOBOR, LIBOR? may vary, but this is considered to be an automatic change, i.e. not a unilateral change in the contract. The bill also provides that the reference rate is to be published on the MNB's website. In the case of loans linked to the reference rate, the other component of the interest rate level is the interest rate premium, which must be fixed, i.e. it cannot be changed during the maturity period. The bill also distinguishes two categories for contracts with a maturity of more than three years: loans linked to the reference rate and loans fixed in floating rate interest periods of at least three years. For loans linked to the reference rate, the level of the reference rate may vary for these loans, but this does not constitute a unilateral contractual amendment. With these credit agreements? as opposed to contracts with a maturity of less than three years? interest rates may vary. However, the condition of this is that the creditor pre-fixes the interest rate premium in interest periods of at least three years, so the interest rate premium may be unilaterally adjusted only after the interest rate period has expired. A further condition is that the creditor determines in the contract a rate change of interest rate which the borrower must be informed of before the contract is concluded. For variable rate loans, the interest rate level may also be adjusted after the interest period of at least three years. A further condition is an interest rate change indicator, i.e. the determination of an objective index. On this basis, the creditor has the right to unilaterally modify the contractual interest on the basis of the published rate of exchange recorded in the credit agreement after the interest period has expired. The interest rate conversion indicator is the ratio linked to the refinancing costs of lending and the provision of the loan. A further condition is that it should be outside the creditor's business and express a change in circumstances which cannot be foreseen by the creditor, independent of it, which cannot be avoided. The creditor has no influence on the interest rate conversion rate. In the credit agreement, interest rates or interest rates may be adjusted up to five times over the entire term. The creditor shall notify the MNB of one or more interest rate changes which he intends to apply, the interest rate change index and the reference rate. The creditor may, of course, use only one interest rate change indicator, an interest rate change indicator or a reference rate in a contract. The MNB shall publish this information on its website within 30 days of the date of notification. The MNB shall take a separate decision to refuse publication only, against which there shall be a judicial remedy. In addition to interest, the creditor may unilaterally modify the fee and the cost, adversely to the consumer. In this respect, the bill states that the creditor can only modify the costs specified in the contract and that the amendment must be proportionate to the increase in costs. Similarly, fees should be fixed in the contract, from which only the payment fee, the maintenance fee and the prepayment fee are excluded, which the creditor may determine as a percentage. [[10.50]] The remuneration may be increased by a maximum of the consumer price index published by HCSO. The costs and charges may be adjusted once a year by the creditor with effect from 1 April. The bill also states that the percentage of fees determined according to the contract can be determined in the currency of the loan and that the specific costs and charges can only be determined in HUF. With regard to unilateral increases in interest, costs and fees, the bill states that, in the event of late delivery of the consumer, the creditor may charge the consumer a default interest of not more than twice the transaction interest fixed in the credit agreement for the duration of the delay. However, the bill also lays down another cap under which the interest on late payment should not exceed 17/A on credit contracts. The maximum rate of the total rate of charge laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. For residential credit contracts, the bill sets out a different type of limit: after 90 days after the termination of the contract, the financial institution may not charge interest, costs and fees on the transaction interest, in excess of the costs and fees applicable on the day before the consumer's termination due to non-compliance. The bill states that if, after the interest period specified in the credit agreement has expired, the interest rate or the rate of the interest premium in the new interest period has a negative effect on the consumer, the consumer is entitled to terminate the credit agreement free of charge and charge. The notice shall be communicated by the consumer to the creditor 60 days before the interest rate period expires and the outstanding debt shall be paid to the creditor at the latest on the last day of the interest period. The exercise of notice shall be subject to the condition that the creditor informs the consumer of the interest and interest premium applied in the new interest period at least 90 days before the interest period expires. The right of free termination shall be without prejudice to the consumer's right to early repayment. The right to early repayment shall also be granted to the consumer during the interest period, but the related cost of the creditor shall be reimbursed. The cost of early repayment is maximized by the Directive and should not exceed 1 per cent of the amount cancelled and 2,5 per cent for mortgages. The preamble to the EC Directive 2008/48/EC explicitly states that the Directive does not regulate the issue of acquisition rights relating to the validity of credit contracts, i.e. they remain the competence of the Member States. Thus, the Directive does not answer the question of the legal consequences of not including the content of the credit agreement in the Directive. However, should the provisions of Article 23 of the Directive on the basis of which the penalties imposed by the Member States in the event of infringements of the provisions of the Directive be taken into account in this regard? including the consequences of civil law? they must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. In this regard, Fhtv. original 16. Paragraph 5 of Section 5 states that a contract which does not contain Article 16 is null and void. The elements of the content set out in paragraph 1. However, the law also stated that the nullity of the contract can only be invoked in the interests of the consumer. Based on the domestic judicial practice of recent years, it has become clear that the total nullity of the credit agreement is extremely detrimental to the consumer, since in this case the total principal plus interest is due together, which the consumer is hardly able to fulfil. Therefore, our judicial practice has made partial nullity the main rule. The point of partial nullity is that it cannot have any effect on the nullity of the contract. However, partial nullity does not give the judge the opportunity to intervene in the contract in another way, whether its content is valid or the old Ptk. to change it by means of a declaration of validity. This is possible only in the event of the total nullity of the consumer credit agreement. Given the fact that it's Fhtv. 16. Due to the lack of content contained in Section 2 of this Article, the determination of the nullity of the entire credit agreement is detrimental to the consumer, and therefore the proposed law amends Fhtv. 16. Paragraph 5 of this Article. The modified content is 16. § 5 if the law is paragraph 16. The absence of material supplies within the meaning of Article 4 of the Treaty does not affect the establishment of a contract, the creditor shall, in accordance with the rules of liability for damage caused by breach of contract, compensate the consumer for the damage resulting from the lack of supplies. This is in line with the principle of the obligation law that, in the absence of all the essential elements of the contract, the contract will not be concluded. That's Fhtv. 16. However, a number of the elements listed in §2 of the Act cannot be considered relevant, so their absence does not affect the conclusion of the contract. Compared to this, if a substance not considered relevant is missing from the consumer credit agreement, which Fhtv. 16. § (1) states that although the contract is concluded between the parties, will it be valid, but does the creditor commit a breach of contract with the consumer, thus causing the resulting damage? under the rules of liability for damages caused by breach of contract? is obliged to reimburse the consumer. The bill states that it is Fhtv. its specific provisions shall also apply to the guarantors of the consumer guarantee contract and to the mortgage holders of the consumer mortgage contract. In fact, there was a need in practice for the use of two provisions in an analogue manner: to extend pre-contractual information and to ensure the possibility of early repayment for the persons providing the guarantee. In contrast to the debtor, who, under previous legal provisions, had to be informed in detail by the creditor of the contract to be concluded or his creditworthiness had to be examined, such expectations of the guarantor have not been raised by the legislation. In practice, however, the guarantor is often put in a worse position than the principal taxpayer who stopped paying. Therefore, according to the provision of the bill, the creditor is obliged to inform the guarantor and the mortgage debtor accordingly in order to enable these persons to make a realistic decision on the collateral provision related to the credit agreement. It would also like to clarify that both the guarantor and the mortgage debtor have the right to early repayment of the loan. In this case, the relationship between the parties of the Ptk. He's directing it. In addition to the rules of Fhtv. concerning consumer guarantees and the consumer pawn contract obligation, the contract relationship is governed by Ptk. The provisions of this Regulation shall also apply. The bill allows financial institutions' interest representation bodies to develop model business rules with the approval of the MNB. The application of these acts is not considered to be contrary to the competition law. The aim of this provision is to ensure that the Hungarian banks start applying the same rules of business and standard terms to German and Austrian models, which would help consumers to easily switch to the contractual conditions applied on the market. Now let us move to the other bill, the T/2055 on the modification of the currency of each consumer loan contract and the resolution of issues relating to interest rate rules. Bill No. 1 which is also supported by the Parliamentary Group of KDNP on the basis of the following facts. The forinting of the population's foreign exchange and foreign currency loans is a social interest, both because it eliminates the unilateral foreign exchange risk on the part of the lenders in the retail mortgage credit agreements and, on the other hand, because it promotes the stability of the country's financial intermediary system. In the context of the execution of foreign exchange and foreign currency credit schemes, the legislator should primarily take into account the valuable financial interests of forint-creditors and foreign exchange and foreign currency-based credit institutions. An important aspect is also the national strategic interest in the stability of the financial institution system in Hungary. [[11.00]] In order to settle the situation of natural persons in debt lenders, the legislator set the objective of eliminating unfair lending practices in financial institutions and of including strong consumer protection legal guarantees in law and of issuing risky foreign exchange loans or foreign exchange loans to consumers and, finally, transparency in interest conditions. All this is closely linked to Article CXLII of 2009 on credit to the consumer. to amend the law. While it's Fhtv. Amendment 3 sets out the new contractual terms for consumer credit contracts not covered by the accounts and for all new consumer credit contracts, while this bill does the same for the contracts covered by the accounts. Accordingly, the bill, closely linked to the existing legislative measures aimed at improving the situation of the debtors of consumer loans, defines the legal technique, the procedure, the conditions of the forinting, and the transition of the consumer credit agreements involved in the forinting to the new contractual conditions laid down in the so-called Fair Banking Act. In view of this, the bill not only regulates the forinting of consumer credit debts, but also settles the initial interest rate level after the forinting. In the case of loans where, under certain conditions and at the request of the debtors, the bill allows lenders to remain in the credit relationship with a former foreign currency or foreign currency loan contract, it also determines, in order to protect the interests of consumers, how the interest rate applied by the lender should be adjusted to its upper limit. The scope of the bill covers the remaining consumer credit, loan and financial leasing contracts for which financial institutions are subject to a clearing and, where appropriate, reimbursement obligation under the Law on the settlement of certain issues relating to the Curia's consumer loan agreement decision. In addition, the scope of the bill also covers debts under terminated consumer credit agreements that have not yet been excluded from the accounting records, as forinting can prevent further increases in debt due to the exchange rate risk in respect of these lenders as well. The proposed legislation does not cover debt related to loans, payment accounts and debt for housing purposes with a public interest subsidy, since these contracts are covered by Article XXVIII of the 2014 Act. Nor does it cover the scope of the law. The primary objective of the bill is to eliminate the exchange rate risk for consumers for the future, so as regards foreign exchange or foreign currency-based consumer loans, financial institutions will be obliged to convert the total debt to a HUF claim under the conditions, deadline and procedure specified in the bill. The aim of the bill is to establish the most favourable financial conditions for consumers by considering all the circumstances. The financial institution shall be responsible for the performance of tasks relating to the modification of contracts and the sale of transactions. In view of these, customers should not be charged special fees or reimbursements. Forints are subject to foreign currency or foreign currency-based consumer mortgage agreements. According to the bill, the rules laid down for consumer mortgage agreements should also apply to financial leasing contracts for real estate. When determining the exchange rate, it cannot be disregarded that the Curia's decision as a legal unit concluded that the risk of exchange rate was borne by the lender in the case of the current contracts. The interest rate on foreign exchange and foreign currency-based loans has always been much lower than that of forint loans for the same credit purpose at the same time. In view of this, it should also be borne in mind that forint-loans should not be unduly disadvantaged compared to debtors of foreign exchange or foreign currency-based loans. This aspect is also reflected in the fixed forint exchange rates of the bill. Currency- and foreign exchange-based credentials will be clearly positively affected by the clearing of financial institutions and the HUFing of credit liabilities, thereby helping to preserve their ability to pay. However, it is worth mentioning that, according to the bill, the consumer has the right to initiate the non-transition to the forint in the circumstances listed in the bill, considering the benefits involved, but also the future, unforeseen, unappreciable, additional serious risks. Retail groups that have a regular income in foreign currency may also take advantage of this option, on the basis of the new rules on the regulation of income-related repayments and loan coverage rates, or the remaining maturity of the foreign currency or foreign currency-based mortgage loan would result in short-term and forint conversions and interest-related interest-rate conditions for them with a interest rate higher than the initial interest rate. These are the cases where the legislator considers it rational for the lenders to give the choice in the bill. The conversion to forint will therefore not be mandatory for this retail group, i.e. these lenders may continue to repay in foreign currency or remain in foreign currency-based credit law at their own discretion. For creditors who do not wish to maintain their contracts under modified conditions, the bill provides for an extraordinary right of termination free of charge or charge and allows them to redeem their former foreign currency or foreign currency credit with another loan on more favourable terms.
u2014-11-21-18	Congressman, time's up.
u2014-11-21-19	Time's up, I see. Please support the...
u2014-11-21-20	I can't let it go on.
u2014-11-21-21	.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. and T/2055. Bill No.1, as KDNP does. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-21-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-23	Mr President, Dear House, We have a hybrid proposal in front of us, where we have two very highly collapsible topics, but we have a separate topic to discuss with the government. In addition, one of them is a little delayed, modified, so that, hidden by Friday morning, perhaps a little off the radar, we are discussing this whole topic in Parliament, so that thousands of protestors do not disturb the government in its so-called work. You can see that it is not worth talking for long about the bill on so-called fair banks. It's very good that you got here, although it's true, you should have come here in 2010. Perhaps it would have been better to present this proposal to the Hungarian Parliament with a Hungarian name. It could have been fair, honest, decent. What brings a government that calls itself national to talk about fair banks is talkative in itself, but that should be your problem. The narrowing down of certain forms of bank misconduct is good in itself. That's all there is to talk about the second part. However, about the first one, the so-called forintation: I feel that the fate of this government will also be decided today in this debate. Again, he looks at something, as he looked at the introduction of the so-called Internet tax and the intentions surrounding it, when he paired a very bad decision, a very bad idea, with extremely flawed communication. Then, at the last minute, he escaped from all of this, but none of you can still defend what has happened with the so-called Internet tax. We note that the special tax on telecommunications and its transfer possibilities have not been passed out, only the extension of this has ceased temporarily, we do not know for how long. At the same time, the fact that pro-government keynote speakers represent the goal of eliminating exchange rate risks is quite amazing. It means they don't even understand the point of the problem. The aim is not to avoid exchange rate exposure. The aim, and this was said earlier, is just that they no longer undertake to take the last unwarranted forint, which was taken away from banks and financial institutions by Hungarian citizens, and to regroup it back to the owners. Why don't you talk about it? Why is it not a matter of giving back the last of the stolen forints? [[11.10]] It's not about eliminating the exchange rate risk, it's a tool, please. They presented to us with an incredibly false, incredibly bad justification, which basically legalizes the robbery, legalizes the robbery of the banks and financial institutions concerned in that if we do not forint these foreign currency loans at the price of the day of admission, as they are not foreign currency loans as defined in the original definition of the concept, but if we do not forint at the rate of admission, it does not matter how much discount you give, what double standards you apply, because the final wipers, for example, the richer Fidesz Members of Parliament, could wind up at 180 forints, the simple Hungarian people... Don't smile, you know that this is the way it happened! [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You're talking about something else.]] Simple Hungarian people face 256 HUF. So there's an amazing double standard in this system. Explain, give a realistic explanation or even an explanation of this double standard that can be justified by market processes. Here, in this debate, this may be decided, but we have not yet received a reasonable answer. But if they reached any preferential rate, and not at the time of admission, so if we didn't behave as if these HUF-based loans had been linked to forints, they would have been paid in HUF, so if the financial waste hadn't been removed from the system, then they would have legalized that Hungarian people had been damaged by their bank in the order of 100 billion. And you say that's okay, part of the difference is left with them. I understand you're trying to give me discounts, I understand you're negotiating with the Banking League, you've made a very muscular pact with them right now, and I understand you're allowing me this much? But that's not enough, because it's very, very far from justice. But then don't say that this is a complete solution to the fate of foreign exchange legitimists; then they say that they are so capable of providing small discounts, but they cannot eliminate the problem at market and national level. Moreover, if the citizens concerned are forced to receive forint loans on a compulsory basis, where they do not yet have a ceiling for interest rates and different rates, it cannot be ruled out now that, over a decade's horizon, the banks concerned are reimbursing the current apparent benefits to citizens, then you have done nothing but delay a problem. I'll tell you one more time, they've made a deal with the banks. That's not what I think in the first place. Yesterday we held the meeting of the foreign exchange-credit round table, about which we have often said here in Parliament, you should know that although Jobbik has called it up, every time we invite all the relevant civil society organisations, defenders, foreign exchange-crediters, those who have proved in the courtrooms or even on the street that they are able to stand up for the interests of the injured, but we invite the representatives of the parliamentary parties, representatives of the governing parties, as well as representatives of the Ministry of National Economy and even the Banking Association. How could it be that you, my pro-government fellow Members, have not, on any occasion, honoured your leaders at the otherwise public, announced and repeated event? They can't say they didn't know about this, because we personally handed over the invitation in the form of an immediate question, interpellation. Still, no one paid their respects. And the victims also complain that you simply do not sit down with them, and social consultation would also be the legal obligation of the minister concerned and the national minister. So it's not that the civilians, voters, who, by the way, you certainly look down on in this case, because they don't talk to them, they want something, but they don't respect a legal obligation. It can therefore be said that while they fail to do so, they can expect very hot moments on the day when this hybrid bill is voted or attempted. Obviously, it was oil on the fire that you made incredible promises. On 30 June, a leading pro-government representative said that they would provide a preferential forinting opportunity. Is there a basically a bill on market forintification in front of us? So either they didn't tell the truth or they didn't keep the promise. It can also be said that I mean not only the revelation of Lajos Kósa, when he called it an impossible situation if the debtors were dragged into this mess at or around the market rate, but there were times when you recognized the severity of the problem, although those responsible were still looking in the wrong direction. I'm due back on 21 April 2006. An hour ago, the transcript and video of the sunrise TV show arrived in my mailbox, where it is clear that the opposition leader at the time said that we were quite indebted, but that was the decision of the Hungarian people. So we do not have to pin this on the government, this is due to a kind of life strategy for Hungarian families. Fideszes said before the second election round about the then government, i.e. the successors of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. It can be said, then, that they were already looking for those responsible in the wrong direction. I'm glad that this has changed, and I'm glad that we're finally talking about bank accountability in words, but let's do this in reality. After all, if the banks had been accounted for, how could it have been that if you had done a simple calculation and, let's say, you had carried out a forint in 2010, the debtors would have been more than a thousand billion forints lower than the people concerned? So if you now expect a thousand billion-dollar discount from the so-called settlement package, this is essentially a zero-sum sum in that you did not act in 2010 when you could have acted. And if, even by forinting, they legalize that unwarranted funds will remain with the financial institutions concerned, they will commit an inexorable sin. And you also need to see that something else happened in 2006. It was precisely on 26 January 2006 that the Banking Association issued a small 15-page booklet, the main message of which was to take up foreign currency loans calmly, as the forint will grow over 20 years compared to the Swiss franc and compared to the euro. Thus, they did not share with the public the risk factors that many people knew at the time, since in 2006 other management analyses already included that the forint was overvalued, stronger than the market was justified; first they talked about 22 percent overvalued, then 30. So it can be said that almost the whole profession knew that the forint would weaken, and when the crisis vortex in 2008 really did occur, the exchange rates were out of control. But in the years before, the Fidesz-KDNP lacked many things. Did you miss the fighter's protests and demonstrations for the credit-damaged? as confirmed by my quote, they did not really perceive the problem - there is a lack of amendments to the opposition, which you have tabled here in Parliament; and there is no need at all to keep the problem warm, which the Jobbik opposition has done in hundreds of parliamentary speeches. I'd love to have only found ten of you, but the problem is, we couldn't find one. And we have to say, it's quite amazing, and I refer to 2006 for the third time, when the governments that were then called left-wing had something else to do with our eyes out, but when they say so in this debate that the current government has made an amazing pact with the banks; so if it is said by those who ran it in full-time, it should make you think about it. So when the left has many situations ahead of us, and what has evolved is indeed indicative. And we also have to say that when the MSZP demands for a forint at the rate of a government change, it is far from professional, because economic processes do not support the forinting at such a rate, they are only political, but they would not even be in such trouble and in such a difficult situation as the credit damage you are doing to them, that they are forinting at the market rate. They're doing this in a completely amazing and inexplicable way, when it turns out that banks can't be right a thousand times on a few basic issues. It's often wondered if there was a currency behind it. This is a recurring question, which is also the first to arise from demonstrators and demonstrators. Indeed, in the course of the court negotiations, there has not been a very occasion when the bank concerned was called upon, that, as in the contract, it was said that the currency was actually involved, it was posted to the client, it had already presented a statement of this fact, show the paperwork that, yes, I have involved so many currencies, I have converted it, I have converted whatever I have done, I have posted it to the client. Please provide us with proof of this. Why can't these financial institutions introduce you? Why do you not mind that these financial institutions in the courts have not been able to present these papers in hundreds of cases? It is said that we do not involve currency in relation to a client, we solve this in bulk, through portfolio management, with two-day swaps. Okay, so let's get the statements and papers on this. The problem is that according to the MNB's quarterly reports, only five fifths of the currency deposits were made as much as they were posted. So you can see that this is a simple statistical fraud, a financial scam of the century, a series of events where there was no mention of banks taking on the risk community. But they didn't take risk management, and they didn't take risk management for clients, and that would have been a legal obligation. Why do you not mind that this legal obligation has not been met? That no one's been doing this? That no one's bothered to do that? Why doesn't it bother you? So these are questions that I feel should be answered in today's debate. And there's another really rough thing going on. And I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, who asked the Minister of National Economy a written question, asking what his plans were for the government to build a home or a tenant's apartment in order to run up the tenancy. [[11.20]] One of the most impertinent responses to these last government cycles has been made. It is well known that Jobbik has a very well-educated home-building and rental-building programme, and we have tried several times to get it through the House, and we have not yet received a meaningful answer as to what the obstacles are. The Minister of the Ministry of National Economy replied that why Jobbik is complaining, and I am not quoting it literally, I am just trying to give you the message, because one of the biggest series of propagating measures of the last period has occurred: the National Asset Manager. So basically, they told us to take it away from people instead of housing, or if they took it away from people for reasons that were often outside of them, because of money market processes, their own apartments, their homes, they should be rented back by former owners, they should be called rent apartments, and the rental stock has already multiplied. Amazingly, it happened in the order of tens of thousands, and it is expected that they will take their property away from Hungarian people. You can rent back your own property, and the debt that almost got you evicted isn't real. It's never been real, but you're not disturbed by these laws, and you're calling it a rental program. It's pretty amazing. And now, the half-sociated would expand, which is very right, and I support it, but again they do not perceive market developments, because they do not see that a Hungarian youth who does not have 16 to 18 million for an apartment will not have 13 out of the average salary according to the HCSO. Here, through a fair rental-building program, a lease could be operated on in later years by transforming a property right into property relations, with Hungarian contractors, Hungarian entrepreneurs, and to the greatest extent possible with Hungarian suppliers, which should also be discussed in the context of the budgetary debate, but receiving skills is zero. And we can also see that even the Socpol's discounts are intended to flow through the same commercial banks in the coming years, who are not now being accounted for in the context of foreign exchange lending. I don't know how you can explain this, I hope you at least have the will to respond. The bigger problem is that not only here in Parliament, but here in this Chamber, when I asked this question outside the microphone, it was also explained by the pro-government representatives that they wanted to forint at market prices that the decisions of the Curia were supposed to bind their hands. Now, not only is this factually not true, but it's an ordenar's impertinent lie, which I very much hope they didn't make their own. I really hope that's what your bosses told you to say, but you don't believe that. I mean, you don't have to be a lawyer to see that there's no such thing. Your hands aren't tied. You simply do not want to forint at the rate of admission, and you are cowards to admit the real reasons for this. After all, if we highlight only two very important points of the Curia's legal unit decisions, we can see that it has ordered the return of lots in 2014 that are not related to the exchange rate. What was that about? The trade margin and the exchange of interest and costs due to unilateral amendments were to be re-ordered. That's what they said they were dishonest. There was no mention of exchange rates and items related to exchange rate exposure, so it is not true, it is an impertinent lie that you have to forint at or near the market rate because of the Curia's decision. And it can also be said that the Curia has also stated that if the client has not received various discounts, he has not received fair information, then it is possible to intervene in these schemes, and it is indeed a dog's duty to intervene by a responsible government, but unfortunately there is no mention of this. You do not act or betray your own constituents on the basis of a Curia decision, which the Curia does not have the opportunity to respond to. So think about it, now, that your reference base is an unattractive, perfect loophole from your point of view, but your action will be totally postponed. There is a sure winner, this has been said several times, the Hungarian National Bank. According to some estimates, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank receives a surplus of 100, otherwise 144 and a third estimate of 150 billion in this amazing exchange rate differential game. I am not saying that the MNB should be a profit-oriented institution and pay its profits to the budget, so I am not going towards such a professional demagogy, but I am saying that it should be partially enforced that if this surplus comes from an exchange rate differential that would damage Hungarian voters and customers, then at least from this surplus you should think about establishing a compensation fund, with a grant of a billion, ten billion dollars, from which it would be possible to resolve the situation of those who have already been evicted without their own faults, who have already lost their property, who, in the case of which the guardianship has torn apart your family, because you do not talk about these people. They are talking about market processes, elimination of exposure, but not about people, not about the citizens involved. Give me a few words about those, and I want one of the State Secretarys to stand up. [[To Gábor Orbán:]] Tell me what will happen to those, sit down first, but then press a button, please, and stand up, respond, say a few words about those who have lost their homes and property, for whom the family has fallen apart, why doesn't a single line of laws mention them, what is their plan with these thousands, tens of thousands of people in Hungary. And how could you imagine that with the intention of reducing the number of lawsuits, you were suspended practically 12,000 motions? Do you really think this 12,000 motion is gonna stop? Four, five, six, eight times this much will be launched by citizens for very, very simple reasons. For example, an impertinent double standard was introduced, in terms of 180 forints of final repayment and market HUF, which is the only reason why tens of thousands of people will make excuses. You will have a right to object, and you will not be able to do what the current government can to prove you right, because you are wrong, you cannot maintain the amazing disproportionateness that you have introduced. Once again, we need a compensation fund for the MNB, a partial transfer of its profits, from which these very difficult people could be helped, but your budget proposal is also talkative. There is now a burden of over 400 billion dollars, so to speak, on banks and financial institutions. I'm saying it's the right thing to do. It would be right to burden this sector, involve it in public cargo. However, you simply ignore the fact that, from the point of view of the bank's special tax to the transaction tax, all the similar burdens have been passed on to financial institutions. There were some things that were passed on more than necessary for certain social groups, i.e. above the 100 percent level, and you did not raise any obstacles to this. So you can see that they simply take note of the passing on of special taxes, sectoral taxes. So with this 400 billion-dollar package, with a burden, they're again giving voters, citizens - quotes? They're not doing anything to keep the new load from crashing on them. We also need to see that we really need to look for answers to the 2006 Banking Association, accomplice call, which was actually about taking on foreign exchange loans calmly, to the awkward silence of the opposition at the time, to the fact that you were warned by foreign banks, but it was still quiet in Hungary, to the amazing silence of the supervisory system, and to the fact that we are now four and a half years after a government change. And why do we still have to argue about that? Why couldn't it be said in 2010 that we were forinting at the rate of admission? These were not foreign exchange loans. Act as it happened, if the client received the loan in HUF, he will have to pay it back in HUF. You're not tidying up, you're saying you owe me 8 million now, that's 6.5, but it's okay, you'll get a forint loan from the same guilty banks who committed this scam against you. Stay in a contract with them, even choose between them, eat among them, or find more preferential opportunities, but you may have already repaid your debt. This should be borne in mind, not only because there are thousands more on the street, and then tens of thousands of people are going to demand this truth, but because, in connection with the introduction of the so-called Internet tax, at least all they could have done was sit back and sit back next to a bottle of wine or a glass of mineral water? To who's taste? They could have thought about what they were doing to this whole thing. You can see, not only from the fall of their support, but if they were moving among typical Hungarian people, so not on the Rose Hill, but on the Hungarian Autumn, they would see how much they had beaten up with these ideas and decisions, such as the Internet Tax. The foreign exchange credit crisis may be blowing up even more waves. I can't believe we don't believe you don't know that. Apparently, they've priced the process, made a deal with the banks, the consequences weren't properly assessed. In the next few weeks, in the next few months? But can we talk about years? 'Cause there's definitely going to be a huge wave of social protest against you. It doesn't have to be stimulated by any opposition force, it's already a mass of tension, and it's quite clear that with honest speech, you could improve your situation if, say, one of your leaders stood up and said, yes, we're negotiating with the Banking League, that's all the market allows. [[11.30]] Then they'd say to you that you're cowards or you're not proactive enough to make deals with foreign powers or the money world. It doesn't matter what accusations would be made, it would be an honest speech. This, which lies before us about fair banks - can you speak Hungarian, about fair, honest, honest banks, but is it about fair banks that your bill is about? , contains positive elements for the future. Let's not discuss these. I am also pointing out this because when we are likely to vote against this hybrid waste called the bill, which has been submitted to legalize the looting of the Hungarian people, we would like to indicate that there are elements in it that would be eligible, there really are, and we will not support them because you are again? Like they put everything together in their salad laws? They're putting it in front of us so we can't press the support button. But it should be seen that if they do not face the amazing waves of social tension, they will indeed suffer far more serious damage than the introduction of the so-called Internet tax and the subsequent loss of popularity. But more importantly, one of those illegal and one of those thousand wounds that bleeds is legalized after? If they send this message to the market, they tell the banks that you can keep some of the goods taken away - basically they give permission to launch all Hungarian players in all economic sectors, every Hungarian citizen, every small entrepreneur, because then they say that anything can be done on the Hungarian market. There may be some legal consequences, but it is certainly not complete. You are now not recovering the entire, abducted property for Hungarian citizens, and it can be said that, if that is possible, your position is that everything can be done in Hungary. If the voters will feel that way, then don't be surprised that they will spill out of Kossuth Square. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-21-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing two legislative proposals at the same time, both of which are of great importance and impact. Is that why it should be said again that the preparation, lack of impact assessments, lack of coordination? And I'm not talking about the Hungarian Banking Association? unacceptable, good for one thing: to create poor laws, which are then either brought back to be modified or have a lot of side effects in practice. We know you're bored of this, believe me, it's exhausting for us to keep repeating it. The so-called fair banks. Like my colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát, I wanted to make a point about how he got involved in a Hungarian law: fair banks. The Hungarian language is rich enough to find the right word for it. Or do you think that this law is only for those who speak English? The law on fair or fair banking is surprising that it does not actually contain too much news. A law of a financial consumer nature, spilled on the usual distrust of Fidesz, against all that means real competition, real performance. The majority of the measures described have already been included in the Banking Act since 2011. In 2011, a law providing for transparent pricing of loans was adopted under which mortgage loans can be granted only on a reference leg or with fixed interest rates for at least three years; a credit institution law 2079. Article 2 (1) (a) Compared to this, the amendments are small and ineffective. By applying for an MNB licence for three-year fixed-rate loans for the amendment, they will achieve a maximum of pushing banks even further towards products with reference rates. That's what's happening right now, anyway. What can be said in summary about the specific content is that most of the problems that it is dealing with could be solved if the bank change was drastically facilitated. And then you wouldn't have to say the tip of restrictive rules. This would also increase financial awareness and offer people the chance to take their own fate into their own hands. Yet what makes this law very serious is not itself, but for what purpose the government is using it for. According to Márton Nagy, Managing Director of the National Bank, this law is one of the elements of the process aimed at keeping five large banks in Hungary. In the beginning, it is bad that a consumer protection law is not designed to protect consumers, but to exert pressure. On the other hand, it is bad for the government to eliminate competition in all areas, small businesses, its idea of an oligopolistic arrangement dominated by a few giant players. This is not only bad for consumers, because it increases the likelihood of carteling to a huge extent, but also for economic development, because it takes the air away from small and medium-sized enterprises. This arrangement is useful for a centralized, semi-democratic power, because it can control you better, but it's bad for the country because it strangles you, puts you in a harness. Unfortunately, is this the process we're seeing, not just at the liquor wholesale? You want me to give you a fresh example? but also in banking services. The other bill, the forinting of foreign currency loans. About the Forinting Act, which, as usual, is very quickly passed through legislation, four There's something to be said. 1. They've fooled people in a way that's unbiased. For years, they have been deceiving the credible, making political capital out of their misery, and now they have been very badly and cynically deceived. 2. There are those who have benefited, the more wealthy, who have been able to make up for it. However, they are only a quarter of the authentic ones. The others received only the counting, the risk of eviction, the burden.3. The main winner of the case is the Hungarian National Bank, which provides public money at an amazing pace. However, the solution is simple: the decision of the Curia must be enforced and the Hungarian National Bank must give the currency at a purchase price. Let's look at the facts. The government by setting the daily rate forinting? until yesterday, did I tell you to make it mandatory? He's back on the side of the banks. But it's almost no surprise to anyone that during the elections, or when it comes to strengthening Fidesz-KDNP's positions, there will be a government campaign to account banks, which everyone already knows is a lie. And I note quietly that the government slogan on bank accountability becomes an indicator of the weakening of Fidesz. It is not only the foreign exchange credentials, the multitude of people and we know that it is a bad decision, but also the leading Fidesz politicians know it. I repeat, because it has already been said today that Lajos Kósa said a few weeks ago that the market rate would put foreign exchange lenders in an impossible position to the extent that the government's measures to date would become pointless. So it is clear to Lajos Kósa that this is the wrong solution. Yet the government has chosen this path, so the government's actions so far have become meaningless? I'm referring to Lajos Kósa. It is also a sham because it does not deal at all with the Curia's decision that foreign exchange-based contracts may be defective if the debtor has not been properly informed of the possible extent of the exchange rate risk. The government did not reveal the extent to which the information was less than required by law and did not include the result of a systemic failure to provide information. The government forces people to switch to the daily exchange rate at the weak exchange rate that is due to its bad economic policy. It easily ignores the Curia's decision that the exchange rate risk cannot be charged to the debtor if it has not been properly informed. In this way, the most important issue was not accounted for by banks. Those who had been able to pre-empt at a rate of HUF 180 have been exempted from both the significant part of the previous exchange rate risk and the subsequent fluctuations caused by the government. [[11.40]] A quarter of the debtors were the ones who had a reserve to pay their debt. Three-quarters of the debtors were left in the mess. That's understandable. We're used to it. If you don't have anything, you don't have anything, it doesn't exist for the government. For example, what will happen to some 100,000 debtors who have not been able to repay their loan for 90 days? We will say many more times that what the government is doing about foreign exchange credentials is the way it usually treats Hungarian society: it makes the rich even richer and does not care at all about the problems of the poor. The winnings of the Hungarian National Bank on foreign exchange lenders are the easiest elements of the whole story. As the weakening forint has put the debtors in a worse position in recent years, the Hungarian National Bank is in a better position, since the MNB acquired its reserves at the previous low exchange rate level. The euro that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank previously bought for 250 HUF is now available to the banks for 309 HUF. This means that the Hungarian National Bank can make a huge profit per euro, and this profit is indeed the loss of foreign exchange taxpayers. It is clear that the MNB's recent spending of HUF 350 billion is based on foreign exchange profits and that profits are the result of the difference between the cost of foreign reserves and the exchange rate required by the Forint Act. It is also obvious that the loss of foreign exchange lenders is the bitter fruit of the forint valuation that constitutes the profits of the MNB. The profit of the MNB is a straight reflection of the loss of foreign exchange taxpayers, but the surplus is not used to alleviate the problem. The MNB wouldn't have been able to commit to the huge spending we've seen in the last few months if it hadn't been for this profit. He could expect this profit because he knew that the conversion would be required not at the cost of his foreign reserves, but at the current rate which is much weaker than that. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank made a huge capital for building the lunar yard and at the expense of foreign exchange taxpayers. The LMP finds the bill which, at the expense of foreign exchange taxpayers, provides huge profits to the Hungarian National Bank to be deeply immoral and unfair. The MNB, instead of making the currency available to foreign exchange lenders through banks for as much as it bought it, pockets a profit of nearly HUF 100 billion. And what we have seen in recent months is what the MNB is doing with the profits won at weak forints: it spent a total of 350 billion forints on the purchase of luxury palaces with offshore backgrounds, artworks, and funding foundations to propagate the economic theories of György Matolcsy. That's a huge amount! One more point: it is no coincidence that the Hungarian National Bank has not had a supervisory board for six months, despite the legal requirements. The solution is, if not simple, but obvious: the Hungarian National Bank must be obliged to sell the currency to the banks for as much as it cost him, and, of course, the banks must also be obliged to forint foreign currency loans for the same amount. This nearly HUF 100 billion is missing for a fair settlement. Moreover, the Curia's decision does not prevent the Hungarian National Bank from selling the currency to the banks at the average price it pays. Forinting at the purchase rate would also help lending. Indeed, the credit rating of banks would be significantly reduced, and the lower repayment burden resulting from the more favourable exchange rate would make very many debtors creditable again, and the underlying cover would be sufficient, which is an extremely important economic interest, since it is the high rated loan stock that would enable economic life to be boosted through lending. In conclusion, I would just like to ask my fellow Members to accept the proposals of the LMP amendment. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-26	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As there are no independent Members in the Chamber, they do not wish to comment, so we have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker. There are now two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2014-11-21-27	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You're talking paper, impersonal about foreign exchange credentials. You know, these laws are about people's lives. They may be dissuaded, but an average foreign exchange loaner knows well what these last four years have meant to him. In the case of a Suzuki foreign exchange loan in 2008, in 2010 there was a payment of HUF 53,000; now it is over 110,000. It's your fault, your economic policy's fault, and your game with the forint. I think that everyone who watches today the debate on the foreign exchange loan law knows that this is true, and what you're talking about is just misconception. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr Márius Révész, Fidesz Group, has applied. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-21-29	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, If I were in the MSZ, I'd be more modest. The fact that so much of the country is indebted to you in foreign currency and Swiss francs is your fault. A single normal country, a single normal government, would not allow that in its own currency. [[Dr. László Varga: Talk about the exchange rate! ? Anita Herring: Fifty-three and a hundred and ten! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] 80 percent of the country is in debt to Swiss francs, Congresswoman. Why? Because the government was irresponsible. Did our fellow Member really say how great it was to have succeeded at the time of the change of government from HUF 317? is this the peak exchange rate of the euro during the Bajnai government? to return it to the neighborhood of 280 forints, by the way. But what was the price, Congresswoman? The price was that the Hungarian National Bank had to raise the base rate to 7 percent. And what was the price of that? Economic growth has vanished and the prospects for the country are virtually limited. [[Anita Herring: Fifty-three and a hundred and ten! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] I must say, Congresswoman, that this situation has come up is the responsibility of the Socialist Party, the MSZ-SZDSZ government. There's only one country in the world where the government [[Dr. László Varga: This really is a prank.]] He also allowed his own citizens to be indebted in foreign currency to this extent. [[Anita Herring: Four years! ? Dr. László Varga: You're wrong!]] Let me tell you one more thing, Congresswoman. Several of the representatives of LMP, Jobbik, said that the Hungarian National Bank's profits could amount to HUF 100 billion. Let us accept this number, although I do not think they counted well, but we are not giving 100 billion forints, 1100 billion forints back to people with this law, by the way. You are arguing at 100 billion forints. I must say that this situation has arisen in Hungary, due to the irresponsible nature of your government. [[Dr. László Varga: This is bullshit! ? Anita Beringes: She's delirious!]] The problem is that this situation had to be dealt with for a long time by the previous government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] while this solution proposal may have come before us here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Congresswoman Anita Heringes, please refrain from interrupting. He had the opportunity for a two-minute speech, and it was for every faction. We are now continuing our work with pre-notification speeches in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-21-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When we are talking about legislation of such importance as this one, I think that all of us, Members of Parliament and perhaps the government, and everyone must think a little back and think about what the basics are for which we are sitting here in Parliament and what the direction we all have to follow are. We must all agree that we are here to raise the nation in some form. They're basics. There may be differences between us in the instruments, but not in these basic ideas. In particular, it is extremely important to have jobs in Hungary and to increase production in Hungary, to have a major manufacturing industry in Hungary, because if we produce value, then Hungary can only be happy, then Hungarian citizens can be successful. However, in order to go further on this path, sometimes it is necessary to stop and look back. [[11.50]] Questions that were fundamentally unfair must be looked back and closed in the past. That is what this package of laws is about, which is what we are discussing, and that is what the previous measures have been about. What does this look like overall, and how does it achieve the effect that all foreign exchange lenders in Hungary will benefit? This package that needs to be treated as a unit? And I'm stressing that you need to be treated as a unit? There's more than one element. The first element of this unit is what we've already accepted, it's about the past, it's about accounting banks. The money that was unfairly taken by the banks must be returned to the people. It must be returned in two ways: either by reducing the entire capital behind the loan in cash, which has already expired, or by reducing the repayments. It will flow back to the Hungarian economy, which will be returned to people in the next period. This HUF 1000 billion is not a small sum. In order to be able to see how many numbers we are talking about, this is the sum of two thirds of the personal income tax paid by Hungarians, so we are talking about a huge number. By doing this, we will close the past, close a period, and look to the future. These two elements of the legislative package that we are talking about are now about the future. The future, in the sense of the future, that the law on fair banks will guarantee predictability, people will know what will happen tomorrow. If a person enters into a contract, he will know exactly what conditions he has concluded this contract, what he can expect from the banks, and the end of an era that we can safely call a small-letter era. It is not in the small letters that we now need to look into what is in reality in these treaties, but it will be transparent, clear rules. Hungarian consumers will be entitled to such protection as German or Austrian consumers. The right to change contracts only unilaterally will cease to exist. They only touched, assumed, or for real reasons increased interest rates and changed other conditions. There will now be a fixed interest rate period, a three-year period, including fixed interest rates and a change at the end of the three-year period, but also under strict supervision, under the supervision of the National Bank. In the event that economic processes change and can reduce loans, interest rates can be reduced, they must be reduced. A different period therefore begins, a new period of lending begins, a fair, fair country's fair banking system can be implemented. This is what it takes to achieve the general goals that we have set in the next period, because we are credible if we go along this path. The government and the ruling party are on their way, and we're going to go down this road. The next step is the question of forinting. The issue of forinting is primarily about safety. Once the past is closed, we offer a visible, visible future, it is important that this not only be foreseeable, but also a safe future. Let it end, my fellow Members, the era of speculation, let us not build the economy on speculation. Let us build on the work and not on what the Swiss franc, the euro's exchange rate, looks like. You can play with it, and you can play with the words, just when the exchange rate was what, if I remember correctly, on March 6, 2009, the euro price was over 317 HUF, and here the point is to close an era. Let us draw a line and see in its overall impact what these measures are worth. It's all about the impact. One element and one element should not be highlighted in this package of laws, or only this one element should be analysed, but the law must be monitored overall, as this legislation tries and follows the Curia's decision and intends to create a situation that can withstand the test of constitutionality. Did the court come up with principles that they didn't, by the way? Have we seen the latest decisions? The Constitutional Court also follows. Accordingly, such a package of legislation had to be drawn up. The overall impact of this package of legislation, ladies and gentlemen, is as if the Swiss franc was HUF 180. So if we had chosen the option that we couldn't have done to just forint the loans, we would have been able to achieve such an effect. But since it wasn't that simple, it was necessary to create such a package of laws, which is more than just forinting at such a rate, but giving people security and a predictable future, a predictable future in which everyone knows what will be waiting for them. The whole point of our legislation and our whole activity is that even if we do not agree with each other in instruments, but it has to be to make people's lives better, to give people a better, more predictable future, a future in which everyone knows what is waiting for them, everyone knows that they can trust the government, because what is going on in Hungary, from the laws that the Parliament accepts here, will only be better for them. That is what we are trying to do, and that is why we have tabled this package of legislation and we are asking you accordingly to support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-21-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy. There is an unlimited timeframe, Mr. Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-11-21-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to respond to the statements made in the debate and to certain misleading thoughts now. I would like to start by recalling the observation that in 2001 it was possible to have foreign exchange loans in Hungary. This half-truth is more of a quarter truth. Indeed, in the context of EU accession, this provision was incorporated into the Hungarian legal order, which, in any case, allowed foreign exchange loans to take place, in compliance with the requirement of free movement of capital. At the time, there was no need to limit this specifically, since the policy of supported forint loans could be used in a meaningful way to obtain housing loans in Hungary. After 2003, it would have been necessary to do so in parallel, while taking this opportunity away from the families, while also being provided by the then government, but did not do so in parallel to protect it from the foreign currency loan trap. The result is huge foreign currency lending and a mass problem in Eastern Central Europe in a unique way. They are now looking for the culprit for the 70 forints that raised the Swiss franc's exchange rate from one hundred and eighty to over 256. Did he mention you here? I take it he's not here anymore? the congressman has three influential, heavyweight right-wing personalities, politicians who are responsible for this. Indeed, I consider them to be, but I do not believe that they would have managed to run from 1.50 to 1.20 in the wake of the crisis in the euro area, the Swiss franc-euro cross-price. That's half the price depression you're looking for here. They all ask the question, every lead speaker asked us in some way what to do with this exchange rate difference. The MSZP's answer? I'm not surprised at all? We're talking 560 billion forints. It's the money-making, I think, that's not surprising for them. I would like to find out how many voters in their constituency who are or have never taken credit, who have applied for it, because I do not think that we can follow the principle that forint-crediters should not be unduly and unjustly disadvantaged by trying to manipulate me with the exchange rate instead of the means of accounting. [[12.00]] The answer of the LMP to the same question is that the National Bank will give it to you, but the Member is well aware that the National Bank cannot do so, and the framework set by the ECB does not allow you to forint outside the market rate. Fidesz-KDNP's response was accountability, which, combined with forintification, represents a HUF 1100 billion reduction in debt, and this result can be protected as a result of the forinting, and you are trying to put it at risk in an incomprehensible way for me by demanding everything in relation to the exchange rate differential. I am referring to Jobbik's approach because I find it quite shocking that even today, even after the decision in Manoria, it is still possible to talk about the fact that foreign currency credit, the beginning of which is a foreign currency loan, is not a foreign currency loan. I don't know how we're gonna get out of foreign exchange loans if we're so confused, we don't even know what it is. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I can't even imagine, Congressman, how the conversion of the National Bank to 8 billion would have happened last Monday if there was no foreign currency loan. I don't know if that's what you've been thinking about, why did the banking system replace 8 billion if there's never been a currency behind it. So I want you to know that before you continue to poison public thinking about whether there was a currency behind the foreign exchange loan, foreign exchange source [[Dr. András Schiffer: No.]] I'd like you to think about that for a while. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I think that you are wrong; since you should have been convinced many times with clear reasoning, I am surprised that you are still sticking to this wrong position. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I argued...]] In addition, in relation to the mandatory nature, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck acknowledged that it is no longer possible to say that the forinting is mandatory, since it has been shown in the expoze and in the debate that there are many different options for which groups have the opportunity to retain this foreign currency loan, including for foreign exchange lenders who leave within six years. This is what I wanted to respond to the comments made in the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-21-34	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2014-11-21-35	Dear Parliament, In the beginning, I would only respond to Mr Secretary of State, and then I would very much like to see him really convince us and not just tell us that he convinced us that the whole scheme, which brought hundreds of thousands of families into crisis, was, in many cases, called currency-based credit schemes behind which there was no credible foreign currency collateral behind the commercial bank. These were fictitious transactions. That's the whole point. So when an opposition Member claims that, in many cases, there was no real foreign exchange content behind such transactions, I think it is close to reality. Not to mention that we have demanded long enough that we touch this whole story in such a way that, first of all, we banish the currency element itself from these contractual arrangements, because the exact point of the deception was that very often there was no foreign exchange cover, and by the way, in 11 we warned that there might be a risk in the banking system, that there was actually no foreign currency hedge on the basis of which people were led, by the way. Dear Parliament, The government claims that this law will reduce the burden of foreign exchange taxpayers by 25 percent. And we're saying that we don't know, and more importantly, that those with foreign exchange credit don't know how that 25 percent comes out. So this law can't be voted in good conscience until the government comes forward. This is your chance, Mr. Secretary of State, to present here in Parliament, to present to the public the method of calculation that you have made this 25 percent. Yesterday in the Legislative Committee, I also listened to Mr Balla's faction director, that this great government reduces the burden of foreign exchange taxpayers by 25 percent. Excellent. Where's the calculation? Where did 25 percent come from? I want you to explain this to me. So beyond the fact that this is what the Habony Industries wrote to you, you have to say, how did this figure come out? 2. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has published a formula that requires the debtor to calculate his new debt. However, LMP believes that the majority of the debtors concerned are unlikely to have a mathematical degree. In order to calculate its debt on the basis of the formula published by the central bank, it would at least require a mathematical degree. So we demand the central bank in the first place, but the NGM can also help to publish a calculator through which an average citizen can calculate exactly how much his new debt will be. So it is not possible to make a substantive decision on this bill with a good conscience until, on the one hand, the government comes up with exactly how it comes out to it, just 25 percent, with which the debt of debtors will decrease on average; 2. until those affected are helped to calculate their future debt with a calculator. The thing is, Mr. Secretary, this is a blind flight that the government is conducting. It is not known exactly how the debt and debt of each debtor will develop after the adoption of the law. What's really outrageous about this story is that you say you're gonna get the banks accounted for, and you're on people's side, you're gonna help people. Great. In the meantime, the reality is that the Hungarian National Bank buys Swiss francs for 210 HUF, then sells it to the banks for 256 HUF and makes 46 HUF. In total, at this party, the Hungarian National Bank will earn 100 billion. This is the 100 billion forint, which, if it were to be in people's pockets, then the foreign exchange lenders, who are still trapped in this trap today, would indeed be in a position if they had this 100 billion forint on their side, as if the banks hadn't cut them off at the time, so they hadn't entered into a fictitious foreign exchange-based loan transaction. In Hungarian, this is about György Matolcsy shortening the foreign exchange loan-debtors by HUF 100 billion in addition to the government's assistance. This HUF 100 billion is needed for the central bank not only to buy instruments and other artifacts, but also for companies with different offshore backgrounds, see the Eiffel Palace case. That is why we need this large capital accumulation at the Hungarian National Bank. But let's be clear. The reason why foreign exchange lenders' transactions have to be redeemed at the market rate is because the central bank buys the purchased currency at a lower price, giving it to the commercial banking system at a higher price. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? Isn't that right? You don't think there's a difference between 210 and 256 forints? Whose 46 forints will that be? It's for the central bank. This is a total of 100 billion from the central bank. What is the reason for this, Mr. Secretary? Answer that question. That 100 billion HUF is missing from the people's pockets, and it is in the hands of the Hungarian National Bank, so that new foundations can be set up, and friends with offshore backgrounds can be paid the purchase price for the various wonder palaces. That's what I'm talking about. What you're doing here is a hoax, and you're stealing people from the central bank. Mr. Secretary, the other is not to hide forever behind the Curia's decision. We had an argument about this yesterday at the Legislative Committee. The fact is that in Hungary, the Constitutional Court is entitled to control the rules on the basis of the new Fundamental Law, so it is not the Curia. The Curia is a law enforcement agency. When the Curia makes a decision on a legal unit, it can give an opinion on what is the right direction based on the rules in force at the time of the decision, which, by the way, orients the other judicial forums. This does not prevent the legislator from changing the rules very much. Don't hide behind the mansion's decision. The Curia's decision did not lead the legislator on a forced course at all to otherwise ensure the truth for those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. Don't refer to the Mansion. It is not because of the Curia that foreign exchange loans must be redeemed at market prices, but because of the Hungarian National Bank, which buys this currency on the market at a different, more favourable rate than for the Hungarian commercial banks. [[12.10]] The proposal of the LMP was not necessarily what you are here to our retorted socialist fellow Members, so that the budget would replace it. We said that the government or Parliament should consider requiring the central bank to conduct itself, how to deal with these matters. By the way, would the central bank have the funds for this, since, when you look at how much is unnecessary - unnecessary? ? György Matolcsy and his company have made an illegal and foreign edition of the legal operation of the central bank in recent years, then it seems that this HUF 100 billion also has a place, but it does not have a place on the side of the people, it does not have a place for the people, but we see the stations of another construction process in the operation of the central bank. The function of the central bank is not to build another economic empire in Hungary. The HUF 100 billion that the Hungarian National Bank has earned on this case is missing for those who have been impaired in foreign exchange loans for four years, and if we add the other nine years, they have been waiting for more than ten years for power to help their situation. Fairbank law is one thing, but the Fairbank Act alone will not create fair relations for those who have otherwise been damaged by a non-fair banking system in the last 10 to 15 years. So, Mr. Secretary, I would like to continue to ask the answer: on what basis do you claim that the situation of debtors will be more favourable by 25%? When will a calculator be on the website of the central bank or NGM that allows an average consumer to determine exactly how much debt will be owed under the new rules? Explain why György Matolcsy is partying 100 billion forints on this transaction, and why is this 100 billion forint better than offshore companies and others? with whom the Magyar Nemzeti Bank deals? Why shouldn't this be in the pockets of the currency-loan-damaged? Give me an answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-36	I now give the floor to Secretary Gábor Orbán.
u2014-11-21-37	I would like to raise, very briefly, a point on which the Group leader might be able to think or express his opinion. Here, you believe there was no foreign exchange action at all. If there's no currency behind it, then why are you telling me that the National Bank here and there is giving you currency? You just said there's no such thing, so why are you asking the National Bank to give you anything anywhere? [[Dr. László Varga: They're talking about two things!]] Shouldn't we be doing anything? Isn't that right? ? I just don't know how to get that word out of the paper. It's not like that. [[Dr. László Varga: They talked about two things. You're talking about something else.]] I would like you to not continue this line at all, because you can see that with your own beliefs... [[Dr. Laszlo Varga:]] Can I have a moment, please? It is in conflict with his own beliefs that he has spoken here. I would like you to clarify this once and for all, and it would not complicate the very complicated situation on this subject at all.
u2014-11-21-38	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-21-39	Mr President, Dear House, Mr Secretary of State would like to say to opposition representatives what they should talk about in Parliament, which they do not. You understand, you're not arguing with us alone, the questions of the voters behind us are in our mailbox, yours, but you're not reading it. He didn't answer any of the claims that the alleged 25% discount would come out. No one said that a gram of currency withdrawal did not take place, and I said clearly and clearly that the quarterly reports of the MNB revealed that there was five times the amount of withdrawal that had been made. But I'm going to keep going: should we find an answer to that in a clear way? I asked you this question, but you didn't answer that question, you just lectured opposition representatives on what they could talk about or what they shouldn't talk about? So we should definitely find an answer to that, how is it that there are dozens of lawsuits? I could say a hundred, but let's be moderate, dozens of them? , when the commercial bank concerned was called upon to present the certificate relating to the withdrawal of currency in relation to the transaction concerned, which almost no one could comply with. You can answer that by using two-day swaps to involve the source at portfolio management level, but if there is no proof of this, if there is no sufficient involvement of the currency at the national economy level, then why are you protecting the unprotected here? I understand that your situation is very uncomfortable and uncomfortable, but do not add that you are not responding to any substantive points, and you are also teaching opposition representatives what to talk about and what not to talk about, using expressions such as the well-poisoners of public life here. I ask you to exercise self-criticism, not to lecture me, but to try to answer the questions in substance, and the opposition and the pro-government will be further ahead, because it is not your opinion and it is not my opinion that matters here that we finally get the Hungarian credit victims out of trouble. I would very much like that to be the primary goal and task for you, too. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-40	I now give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2014-11-21-41	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to comment briefly, too, because I don't want to get involved in style disputes. There were quite heated speeches on the part of the opposition, so that they did not spare the government, they did not spare certain state leaders, György Matolcsy and the others, and I think it is a bit too much to be offended by Zs. Carpathian... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Z. Carpathian. ? Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] ? I'm sorry, Dániel Z. Carpathian is offended by what the Secretary of State said. But the point that you have said, my fellow Members, is the point that you have said...? I'm sorry, I'm glad I made you happy today. The point is that, in relation to foreign exchange credit conversion, it is said that the Hungarian National Bank will give it at a lower rate. The Secretary of State said, I just think that his sentence missed, but yesterday we discussed this in the Legislative Committee for a long time that the European Central Bank does not allow national banks to sell currency to commercial banks at a fictitious rate, which is significantly lower than the market rate. So that's what you're talking about, no way, no way. We could write this into the law, but it would fail the Court of Justice of the European Union, these laws would fail, even if we tried to do so, so that the National Bank would give us a cheaper currency, on the one hand. On the other hand, is that what the Secretary of State is talking about? You're absolutely right to think that we shouldn't pretend that we don't understand each other? the reasons why the National Bank should now sell foreign exchange to commercial banks if commercial banks do not have to transfer currency in these cases. Of course, they have to change currency, they have to convert to HUF, so it will be necessary for the National Bank to provide currency for this conversion. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2014-11-21-42	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in two minutes.
u2014-11-21-43	On the one hand, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has already given the answer. I think it is, Mr Secretary of State, and we discussed this here already in 2011, that these loans were granted by the banks without, in fact, the foreign exchange source in most cases being available. That raises another question, by the way, and that's what we've been talking about for the last year, right now? Regardless of the last year's legislation? there is serious doubt whether these transactions were valid even on the basis of the credit institution rules ten years ago; this was not examined by the Curia. Is it that you post a currency-based loan to a bank that is the source page? Didn't we say not at all? it is not sufficiently secured and cannot comply with the rules on prudence on the other hand, since it cannot assess whether the borrower has sufficient performance. We suspect that many of these credit transactions were also in conflict with the rules of the credit institution law in the early 2000s, so they could have been declared invalid on this basis. And I would just like to say to Mr. Secretary of State Répássy that, speaking of fictitious exchange rates, this exchange rate is not fictitious? Why is that less fictitious? We say that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will pass on the currency for as much as it bought it on the market, it is very simple, and the Hungarian Nemzeti Bank should be framed here. Do I also take the liberty of noting that, where appropriate, if there is a conflict to take? If you're so fond of conflicting out of the government? Then it is precisely the fair functioning of banks and the restoration of justice in the case of credit victims. Thank you very much. [[12.20]]
u2014-11-21-44	We will now return to the anticipated speakers and give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros.
u2014-11-21-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The burden of foreign exchange-based lending has been on the shoulders of Hungarians for years. The release of the instalments has ruined the lives of many families, and hundreds of thousands of people are still struggling with foreign exchange-based and 1.2 million more with the problem of forint loans. They are also addressed by a national interest and a legislative obligation. In addition to personal tragedies, the exposure and indebtedness of the population also leads to a reduction in consumption and investment, which has a negative impact on the entire national economy and presents serious risks. In contrast to the inaction and unconventionality of socialist and liberal governments, we have promised to resolve the problem of foreign exchange lenders. At the same time, we cannot go without saying the fact that the subsidised forint loans were abolished in 2003. The law on the forinting of foreign currency loans together with the law on fair banks solves the problems of foreign exchange lenders. The T/2055. This will help to eliminate the unilateral foreign exchange risk on the part of the lenders, which will contribute to the stability of the financial system. Eliminating the unfair lending practices of banks, including the inclusion of consumer protection legal guarantees, increasing the transparency of interest rates conditions and the release of foreign exchange loans are all measures to significantly reduce uncertainty in the financial sector. The bill also regulates the post-forinting interest rate level, and the establishment of the financial conditions that are most favourable to consumers is a priority in addition to the forint conversion obligation. It is crucial that these objectives should be pursued in such a way that forint-crediters are not put in a worse position. This aspect is also taken into account in the key exchange rates for the forints set out in the bill. T/1997. Proposal No 1 aims to reduce the vulnerability of Hungarian citizens to financial institutions. Banks have an obligation to provide customers with adequate information and offers as far as possible. At the same time, unilateral treaty amendments should be curbed. Dear Parliament, I've had the 12th year of being present at the reception hours of Members of Parliament. I did half of this period as a member of staff and the other half as a representative. My general experience with these twelve years is that, before 2011, usually, voters arriving at the host hour came to the reception hours holding resumes in their hands. Luckily, since then, the number of job seekers has fallen sharply in the receiving hours. But in the period 2008-2009, a whole new phenomenon could be met: voters holding a CV were replaced by voters holding bank contracts in their hands. And how could this have been any different from around 2008 and 2009? Allow me to contradict my colleague Bertalan Tóth here? When people called the governments that regent at that time simply banker governments. And that wasn't a coincidence, because you're talking about a sudden change in exchange rates, but you're forgetting the fact that this was typical of your reign, even in your time of government. In January 2008, the much-mentioned Swiss franck exchange rate was 150 forints, and in January 2009 it was 185 forints. Between 2008 and 2009, did your governments try to take all kinds of fake measures for foreign exchange creditors? is that why it is not possible to say that this problem occurred in 2010? We also remember this proposal mocked by a certain code of ethics, all kinds of special deals and special solutions with banks, which did not only help, but rather make the situation of foreign exchange credentials worse, and we also remember the subject of profits guaranteed to banks by means of legislative instruments. That's why you've been mocked, your governments, by the people of your time, by bankers' governments. Our common goal must, of course, be that those who are unfortunately in the most serious situation and still come into the receiving hours with the bank contracts do not have to come in to the Members of Parliament, and they do not have to stand in line in the banks and beg, and they do not have to lose their homes over their heads. If this is a common goal, do you need to understand? Is it my opinion? If we were to accept the proposal that 2010 should be adopted? But I'm asking you, why the 2010s, why not the 2008s? We would put these foreign exchange loans at the rate of exchange, and we would put these unfortunate people in the position that they would be in even more impossible and even more serious situations after the length of any lawsuits. Moreover, at that moment, not only my own, but also those credible customers in your host hours, those debt-loans who have concluded credit contracts in HUF, and would rightly demand the same treatment from you, my fellow opposition Members. That is why I say that it is in our common interest to adopt this law, and I ask for your support to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-46	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-21-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Two laws are now being negotiated by the Parliament, and this makes the situation a little strange, since the speakers of Fidesz are mostly trying to interpret what is happening here today in a favourable way. They talk about a fair banking system in the future, and they talk about past mistakes. I think that many of these things can be agreed on. However, the other legislation, which basically determines the lives of the people, the debtors, comes from the past, and this is about forinting. A lot has been said about this. I just want to be very brief about the past. According to the law adopted in 2001 under the Orbán government, foreign currency lending was possible in Hungary, and it is also factual that the exchange rate of the Swiss franc was 185 HUF in 2010. The amendment was also made for the legislation on forinting because we claim that the Swiss franc has been strengthened, but your governance and economic policy have been the majority, which has been decisive in this deterioration in exchange rate. We believe that the price of your economic policy should not be paid to the foreign exchange lenders, which is why we are proposing this amendment. A lot of people talked about the past. Is it, in part, the global crisis and, in part, this kind of foreign currency lending a social and economic risk? But perhaps we should talk primarily about social risks, because we are talking about people? That's not gonna happen. That it's a bad construction, I think everyone sees it pretty much the same way. In 2010, these were also driven out, at least mostly, as there is a very narrow circle of beneficiaries who can take out such loans today. I think that in order not to happen again, we agree that this bubble shouldn't be formed. Is that why there were financial institutions, banks, without proper credit ratings? Is that what it looks like in practice? These loans have been distributed around the neck, causing social problems in part. It is also important that in the future each citizen sees his or her capacity for borrowing. All over the world, every country in Europe, has changed a lot after 2008 and public regulators have become stronger. Indeed, it must be acknowledged that this problem could have been more moderate in the case of stronger public regulators, but it is true throughout Europe that the economic crisis has brought this problem. So the process that started after 2008 after the crisis started, the strengthening of regulators, that was obviously also important. So in many ways we see things the same way for the future, yet there is a bubble, a situation, a huge social risk that public life has been about to solve for months, years. There was a decision made by the Curia. It is clear that the huge social risk is a deterioration in the exchange rate. The price deterioration? can I say this on the basis of several studies that I looked at before I applied for a speech? It was essentially composed of three factors. [[12.30]] On the one hand, this is the majority of the exchange rate changes themselves, i.e. the weakening of the forint, most of them the strengthening of the currency, in which this loan was paid out. The repayments were increased by around 60 percent for an average loan that was taken up before 2008. The second issue is the issue of unilateral contractual amendments. We're talking about interest increases, aren't we? That's what the Curia has decided to do. It's unfair, it's null and void, it's a clear case. You have already passed legislation on this before the elections, don't you, these come back to the client, you have this specific framework on how to liquidate it or deduct it from capital in relation to the outstanding loans? This raised about 20 percent for an average loan in instalments. The third, the smallest item, was the exchange rate gap, with about 2.5 percent of the difference between the sales and the purchase price being charged to the debtors. This accounted for around 2.5 percent of the increase in the repayments for an average loan. That's what the Curia said was null and void. So there is a situation that is a huge social risk, a growing instalment, a financial arrangement that cannot be undertaken, I hope, never again in this country, because we see what social risks it has caused. All over the world, in such a situation, they think about how these issues can be addressed through the involvement of the banking system, the state and the involvement of debtors. When I approach this question, I say that there is only one of these three repayments increase factors left for today, which is on our table. After all, the Curia has decided on unilateral contractual amendments and the exchange rate gap. That's not part of the story today. The Curia said they weren't fair. All we need to talk about is how to deal with the problems arising from the exchange rate change through a triple engagement. I report that what you have brought to Parliament today as an agreement with the Banking Association means that one of the three players will shift all the burden of the problem to the debtors. For debtors, since the banking system does not play a role in facilitating the exchange rate for debtors after the other two cases, the State refuses to talk about it. We have seen clearly in the debate that all such issues have been removed. What can be done in this situation? I mean, there's one more big problem, which I think is a matter of principle. With this legislation, you also take away the hope of improving your situation in the future, improving the exchange rate and paying better instalments. It was said what the other two actors could do, since it is not possible to pass everything on to the debtors, and they still bear enormous burdens. On the one hand, when it comes to securing the currency, the central bank wins about 150 billion at the exchange rate. I don't think that's okay. It's not okay. This amount could be used to reduce the burden on debtors. It was said that the central bank led by György Matolcsy is making luxury expenses, buying castles, investing in a school system teaching unorthodox economic policy, supporting all kinds of foundations. I think it's unworthy of a situation where there's such a social problem. In part, Parliament would also have the opportunity to act in this situation, what the central bank and the central bank president can and cannot do. And I am not talking about having a say in monetary policy, because obviously that's not what I'm saying, of course, that the independence of the central bank is important. But I think there is something that could be done in this regard. And, by the way, there would still be provisions in the budget if the state's luxury expenditure were to be contained in order to address the problem. For me and for hundreds of thousands of debtors, it is not an appropriate answer that this cannot be done and that cannot be interfered with in the lives of the central bank. You have brought countless unorthodox solutions, with no one in agreement with you, from the labor code to the legislation that basically defines people's lives, you have really destroyed disability care. I could give you so many examples, by the way, of unorthodox solutions without conciliation. I think it would be an excellent opportunity, partly taking into account the possibilities of the central bank, partly taking into account the budget reserves, to help the state, to improve this exchange rate for debtors. What can banks do? In part, they could see that they still have a role to play in dealing with problems related to exchange rate changes, so that debtors do not become unconscionable, as they may also be their customers in the future, so it would be in the long-term interest of banks to reconsider this agreement. I have to say that if we look at any Western European country or even the US lending practice, it is almost unprecedented that the masses of debtors have been paying repayments for years that they have already lost their property to cover the loan, that they actually have their rent in addition to the repayments to be paid. It's unworthy. In my opinion, this was a risk to the banks, since they paid these loans, they thought that it was sufficient to cover them, and because of the change of circumstances, the financial problems were again intended to be passed on to the debtors or passed on to them in recent years. Now, this is something you should have acted on a long time ago, just like in the case you've been talking about for years, but nothing's actually happening. This is family bankruptcy, an institution of private bankruptcy, which, in the end, could mean a safety net that would prevent the inability of people. So to sum up, my problem is, and I was trying not to go back to the past, not to discuss the future with you, but to discuss the principles that there is an economic situation, there is a bubble, or I don't know how to put it, a financial product in which the exchange rate change or the increase in capital repayments are intended to be passed on to the debtor alone of the three parties. Since the Curia has decided in the other two cases, it is null and void, it is not part of this story, but it is a situation that needs to be highlighted, since the Curia itself has said that these terms are unfair, they come back to the debtors. From this point on, the task would be to put a fair, fair proposal between the three actors on the table. But you only pass everything on to the debtors, which is why we have the proposal to at least remove this element of the risk of your governance, of the deterioration of the exchange rate. This is what your government and the state, the Swiss franc of 185 forints, undertake to forint foreign exchange loans and loans at the exchange rate at the time of the change of government, at the rate of 2010 in other currencies. After all, this kind of exchange rate change was essentially caused by your irresponsible economic policy. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-21-48	I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2014-11-21-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Why does Jobbik say that this law does not provide a real solution to the problem of foreign exchange lenders? Why are we dissatisfied with that? Why do we think that this is not a half-solution, a quarter or less, what this bill provides us? First of all, it must be seen that banks have committed so many violations to the detriment of foreign exchange lenders, that for years the government has allowed these foreign exchange-credit cases to continue virtually unchanged, that one can hardly believe its eyes. It was interesting, for example, that while foreign exchange lending was at its peak, the credit institution law provided that people who are in contact with customers should be qualified and that the client should be made aware of all the risks he has taken. [[12.40]] The bank and other employees who provided these loans did not comply with this criterion in themselves. No one was concerned that a multi-page bill, often difficult to understand by economists, with many metastases, should have been understood by customers who did not otherwise have such qualifications. They didn't get the information they needed. But I'll keep going. When it comes to the risks that the client may have faced when borrowing, it is worth weighing the following questions. Why is it that in the United States, which Jobbik by chance does not view as a model democracy, people called ninjas? trained on the basis of an English acronym? Did people with no job, no wealth, no life perspective get credit, credit booms? For years, the consequences of the irresponsible conduct of banks have been moaning, even today. Practically the same in Hungary, let me say that it remained unpunished. In the United States, for example? Contrary to the Orbán government itself, they have spoken frankly about the need to punish banks and bear the consequences because they have caused a general, in-depth economic crisis. Unfortunately, nothing happened in Hungary. When the government experiences one lawlessness after another, it does not do anything with a two-thirds parliamentary mandate to adopt laws guaranteed by this House to establish the final and effective legal conditions for settlement within a week. This does not happen, they point to each other for years, point to the Supreme Court, point to the European Union, but interestingly, in this case, the government forgets to use the power with which it was able to change the constitution on its own. It is also interesting that the government puts its own man at the head of the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board, and this man, who leads this organization, does not bring public interest action to protect foreign exchange creditors, but lets people otherwise drowning in debt traps fight hopelessly against the professional lawyers of banks with their own money, with their last forints coming forward. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the truth? ! Where's common sense? Three and a half, four million people, together with family members, are affected by this issue, which we are talking about, so many people are trapped in debt traps. If the legislative power does not free these people from this debt trap, then the economic rise of Hungary cannot happen. The loss of income for these people, the fact that they spend all their money on their living in the strictest sense, electricity bill, electricity bill, basic food purchase, and all the rest on the banks, effectively slows down the growth of the Hungarian economy at a level that is hopeless to trust that there will be a standard of living improvement in this country until this issue is resolved. It is also interesting what risks foreign exchange lenders have taken. On the one hand, there was the exchange rate risk, which is interesting because, if you look at the data on foreign exchange credit and the official statistics prepared by the European Central Bank, there you will distinguish between different borrowings and credit placements in the sources and asset pages of the credit institution sector. In addition to the euro category, there is a so-called other category with predominantly Swiss franck loans. It is worth seeing, it is also available on the website of the Hungarian National Bank. They will see from the report on the credit institutions sector that nearly five times as many loans have been issued in other currencies as the banks themselves have. So, behind a fraction of the loans, it was only foreign exchange collateral, and no one deals with it because the currency was paid on paper, but in practice it was not. What has happened is that customers have been billed for the exchange rate difference and all their burdens have been passed on to customers, although from the data on the credit institution sector it is crystal clear that the banking system itself was not risky of this exchange rate change, given that it was only a fifth part of the actual foreign exchange collateral behind the loans. That's even more interesting what happened to bank loans. What happened here? In 2008, there was a global economic crisis. The Swiss franc's interest rate level has started, the Swiss central bank's base rate has fallen, while the interest rate paid by the Hungarian authentic has increased. This led to an amazing exploitation in the country, because while banks had much cheaper access to Swiss francs, they brutally started to raise interest rates for Hungarian lenders with much lower interest rates. Neither the present proposal nor any other substance has changed that. This is why both exchange rate changes and interest rate changes could have been borne by foreign exchange lenders, arbitraryly placed the increased interest rates around their necks without an explanation from economics, and the consequence is that, while the exchange rate changes by 1.5 times, the Swiss francs increase so much compared to the forint, while customers pay more than twice as much repayment. The government that calls itself national lets you do nothing about it. Just look at it, when the exchange rate is virtually changed to HUF, it is possible to cover it, Mr Secretary of State Répássy, by not allowing the European Union to return the exchange rate difference to foreign exchange lenders. Yes, you can. You know that, because you had the authority to introduce the exchange rate barrier, which is true, it allowed repayment at a temporary but more favourable rate. But there was also a trap, which the government did not stress; that the exchange rate difference had been paid in a separate account for the benefit of banks for five years. This does not mean that customers, hurrah, are already able to repay at a more favourable rate in the later part of the term. No! This meant that they would get a little relief for five years, and in five years, the original exchange rate difference in the separate account would add to the instalments and the repayments would increase even more than before. So, unfortunately, the government has not been able to help us with this problem. What's the solution here? Obviously, if there is no foreign exchange collateral behind the loans, it is not justified that this exchange rate difference should be passed on to the people by the government. In particular, it is not justified if I look at the Swiss franc's exchange rate at the time of the election victory in spring 2010. Then the Swiss franc moved to a level of 170-180 forints. Then, for years, the government has been unlucky, pointing to the right and left, while, with a two-thirds parliamentary mandate, it has been able to change the constitution without consulting the parties, and it has not solved the problem of foreign exchange lenders. Then several years passed, the exchange rate increased by one and a half times that time, and now you're saying that this burden, the burden of the government's powerlessness, indeterminateness, hesitation, and the brutal exchange rate changes that have taken place over the years, should be absorbed by the foreign exchange credencers. Please, this exchange rate difference did not arise because of foreign exchange creditors, but because the government did not settle the situation. He did not use the parliamentary mandate that the electorate gave him; probably because he did not dare to go against the banking system then or now. In the same way with interest rates: what should be done? I did so by looking at the difference between the repayments of Hungarian and Polish foreign exchange taxpayers. Hungarian foreign exchange taxpayers have to pay significantly more repayments for the same amount of Swiss franck loans at the same time, because they have to pay significantly more interest on their loans than Polish debtors. How could this happen? In Poland, the regulatory authority does not allow banks to exploit people, redirect the burden on the right level of interest, and in Hungary the commercial banks have been given a free hand in practically the last few years to loot the population. Unfortunately, the Orbán government has been assisting all along. It's obviously a career we can't congratulate you on. Once again, the bill with which you are now trying to resolve this issue cannot be called a half-solution, since neither justice nor the law says that this is the way to settle this issue, but that we really should rescind the burden on the banks that they have illegally collected from the poor lenders for years. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[12.50]]
u2014-11-21-50	We now have two-minute speeches; I give the floor first to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2014-11-21-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Several times in the debate, the position has been expressed on the Curia's decision as a legal unit, and I do not understand what this great fetishism on the part of the government is all of a sudden; he believes that they are bound by the resolution of the legal unit. It is incomprehensible, by the way, why you think so, and at least it would be good to tell you how they feel they are bound by a single law order. I rather see that a self-respecting lawyer could not say such a thing, since he who knows the purpose of the decisions of the legal unit knows that it is precisely not to make legislation in any way, but to adopt a single position for the judgmental courts in order to further develop the law, in order to establish a uniform case-law. In my opinion, nothing else is going on here but that you are now blaming it on the Mansion, as you were previously blamed on the courts, blamed on the Constitutional Court; you simply do not take responsibility for the fact that it is your job to keep this situation here. And the other thing is, don't pretend that something is binding your hand. Any possibility, any solution useful for foreign exchange lending was in your hands. On the other hand, my view is that their communication has been irresponsible all along in this matter, and they have begun to promise everything to the electorate, and perhaps Lajos Kósa's absence and his vacation in Dubai is due to the fact that he may not be causing any more trouble here with his statement, with his communication kamikaze, and that there may be a mistake in the machine. I think the Fidesz government could do one thing in this: what they promised not to leave anyone on the side of the road; they passed the other half of the sentence, we know it: they will kick everyone in the trench instead. With this legislation, with this bill, nothing happens but the foot swings and now kicks the people on the side of the road into the ditch. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-52	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2014-11-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to continue, as is the case, that if you were speaking honestly on the government side, you would tell people that, for example, the resolution of the law unit in December was necessary because, in the same kind of litigation, the judicial forums made different decisions. If there was any significance to the legislator's decision as a legal unit, it is to see where there is such a gap in the legislation in force. And in this, can the resolution of the legal unit be a guide? It's something that the legislature has to replace. But in no way is a single law order binding Parliament, so let's put that aside. Two. I just wanted to answer to my colleague, Mr Varga, that, of course, this government and the Obran government are responsible for a lot of things. On the one hand, the first Orbán government started this process in 2001 and the second Orbán government is responsible for not having anything happened for four years. They forgot to account for this in the midst of the great speeches about why these laws did not come here three years ago. But I'd like to talk more quietly about the exchange rate increase on that side. What caused this trap, among other things, was that during the previous ballib governments and the Járai-Simor ticket management, the forint was held too strongly, which drove families into the currency loan trap. And another thing, Mr Secretary of State: you forget to talk about the fact that when you point your finger at the ECB, the Hungarian government would have something to do to engage in conflicts on a global stage in order to re-regulation financial markets and monetary policy, to engage in conflicts within the European Union; you do not do that, and you constantly blame responsibility on another. We know very well that, if possible, you will write a new Fundamental Law or a new civil code within a weekend, Imre Vas will obviously be happy to sign and submit. They couldn't get from one to two on this issue in four years, that's the situation! Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-54	I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2014-11-21-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think I would like to speak, not in the language of numbers, but on an emotional basis, Fidesz, because foreign exchange credentials are now there to watch television on a show like this because they fear that they will drag this whole thing away over and over again because they have been unable to solve the problem of foreign exchange credentialers in four years, even though you know very well what problems those who have taken on such foreign currency loans have. First of all, I think you've given up your dialogue with the families, because families have split up over the past four to five years, and you can say that divorces are because they couldn't handle this financial problem, your responsibility is in the first place. In addition, I think it will cause a much bigger problem in society in the long term, because not only in families, but also within a society, they will cause cohesion breakdown by not solving the whole foreign currency credit problem. You tried to solve everything you wanted within a week or two, because there were laws that you could pass within a week. The question is, and the question of foreign exchange lenders is always, when we meet them, why they don't want it, why they can't solve it, why four more years have passed, and we still don't know if this question will be resolved. So I think that if you want to put families in a position to divorce or commit suicide over and over again, you're going in the right direction. Therefore, I ask you to solve the problem that you have been unable to solve for four years, because it is important for families, and I think that the social dialogue that you have given up, whether with foreign exchange creditors or with the poor or with the vulnerable, should try to start again in order for something to happen in this matter. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-21-56	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-21-57	Mr President, Dear House, The debate has become very diverse, if you can call it a debate, but at last there have been pro-government reactions, but not reassuring answers. It is amazing about the government part of covering with the various decisions of the Curia, and the fact that no rebuttal has been received on the opposition proposals in this regard, although clearly the case-law that you are talking about may be affected by what you are talking about, but the legislative practices and the next series of actions in any way. Moreover, there are amazing contradictions among the pro-government representatives, since the Curia itself has decided that there is no conversion, it is a conversion. What do you need to convert? It doesn't need a currency, it needs a dice notebook. They are quite amazingly trying to cover themselves with the various decisions of the Curia, or without knowing the contents of them, or with their perfect misinterpretation, as it can be seen that when they say that the Curia has to be HUFed at the market rate, they forget what the previous Curia decision was about: the commercial margin and the interest and cost increases due to unilateral changes, the unfair nature of these, not the items related to the exchange rate. I can't believe your hands are tied, that's a lie. We continue to maintain that they are trying to get this hybrid trash called the bill through Hungarian public life for a facial toaster for a false reason, the social consequences of which will be borne by you, but it will also be bad for us, and the voters will be bad for it. That's why? We can't convince you, but at least for the record? We must tell you that there is someone in Hungary who can see through the situation, and I would call you to courage. I want you to be honest with me about why this is necessary. You've discussed with the banks that you can go this far, you've made a pact with them, that's your area of action. Admit that peace with banks is more important for you than regrouping funds unduly taken from Hungarians until the last forint. Otherwise, why has it not been answered here at Secretary of State level how can it be imagined that the risk management has almost completely been left out by the banks concerned? There was a person called a liberal expert who said that it was true, because it was not necessary, no one required it. It's not true, it's a legal requirement, and a failure to do so would cover this whole system in itself, but you refuse to acknowledge it. It has also rightly been said that citizens have been forced into signing something called this loan by people who lacked the necessary qualifications or who have received unjustified extra credit and rewards to drive citizens into such constructions. With regard to them, we do not know of any cases where a similar person is sitting on the bench of the defendants, so it is amazing that they leave such a qualified, revealed and documented series of abuse without consequences. [[13.00]] I must also say that, based on the examination of Damm Andrea and various excellent experts, 70 percent of the contracts, if the Swiss franc was supposedly converted by the bank or withdrawn from somewhere on the day of the forint, it could not be shown. There has been no proof of that. When they asked for this in court, they couldn't show us anything. Or let us give another example: 90 percent of car loans did not have foreign currency amounts displayed in a fair manner, nor could they be used as exchange rates. So you are legalising a 1000 billion-dollar withdrawal from the Hungarian people to the banks on the basis of transactions that have been proven to be fraudulent and false, or that are at a stage of evidence to confirm and prove their deceitful and false identity. So you can see that they're simply legalizing a scam, the financial fraud, the robbery of the century. We've listed at least four or five items that couldn't be rebutted. The minimum would be that, until these rebuttals are born, they will withdraw this proposal, put it to a social debate, and sit down with the stakeholders. If you think I'll be happy to wait for anyone in this corridor, I'll list the 15-20 social and advocacy organizations that Jobbik sits down with on a monthly basis, and I won't hide it: from whom we get a good share of our ammunition, because they know much better about this area than you do, and in our case, too, because in the courtrooms they've been looking for and finding justice for years. Of course, it may be pompous, condescending to smile under our mustaches, nothing will rule out, but the social effects of this you will have to drink, not us, but this country is not good. We're not a backup fan. We don't want you guys to have a bad time getting through a settlement plan like this. We would like everyone in this House to have the goal of returning the last forint they took to the victims, and we feel that this is not necessarily their goal, because otherwise why they would have made a deal with the banks. In fact, I'll tell you something far more harsh: why did you develop the organizational form of the so-called property mass in the previous cycle? Did my fellow Member, János Volner, give a long description of this as well? I'll tell you again, during government treatment? And how does it come about that hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials are expected to lose their property, and where appropriate, they will fall into the hands of the state, as the National Asset Manager has essentially done, because what happened here? When we asked whether there would be more tenements, the answer was that you would like to have more tens of thousands of apartments, because the National Asset Manager contributed to the taking of tens of thousands of apartments, to be taken away from Hungarian people and rented back by former owners. The government says you've got more apartments. But we don't want one of these from Hungary. We would like to build a Hungary where all young people, all middle-aged people, have an expansion of life opportunities, not property ownership, flats, and so on, but we can take advantage of opportunities provided by the market and provided by the state, and we would like to build a Hungary where this series of financial frauds turns into real accountability and fills the defendants' bench with those responsible. We're not gonna calm down until this happens. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-58	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó.
u2014-11-21-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I am trying to make it quite simple what I think the issue of foreign exchange loans is about, and why it is very revealing that we are discussing the HUF proposal together with the proposal that you call the Fairbank Act. You know, I was in a very lucky position at a time in my life, that I lived partly in Belgium and partly in Hungary. I had credit in Belgium at the same time, and I had credit in Hungary at the same time. In addition, in Belgium, I had credit with the bank that was the bank's mother bank, which took credit at the bank's daughter bank in Hungary. So I knew the lending practices of the mother bank there, I knew what I had to do as a client, what the bank had to do, and when the economic crisis came, what they had transferred to me in Belgium and what they had transferred to me in Hungary. You know, what the banks of Hungary, the daughters' banks of these Western European banks, have done in Hungary is an outrageous crime. In Belgium, for this reason, what the Hungarian banks were doing would not have been protesting, but I think they would have even fired. So the unfair conduct of these banks is not a question to me. [[Tamás Vargha: Why didn't you talk then?]] Mr. Secretary, wait a minute, okay? So it's not a question to me. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Dr. László Varga: You don't have to fool people!]] The question is that, seeing as how effectively these banks were looting, if you like, the Hungarian people, that during the period of the crisis, these banks were richly profitable, after which, when you came to power, what did they do? Well, didn't they do that by ordering these banks to stop skinning the Hungarian people, not take the extra profit away from them? As you put it? What did they say? [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Che Guevara of Brussels!]] They said that respected banks, you are very good at collecting money from the Hungarian people. You know what? Let's do it together and split it or split it. That's what your banker was about. The Hungarian banks were not obliged to take this money away from the Hungarian people and Hungarian entrepreneurs, but simply put a bank tax on these banks, which increased the bank tax with previous burdens, the banks passed it on to the Hungarian population, the Hungarian entrepreneurs, and so the Hungarian people did not reduce their burden, but grew brutally. This process lasted until foreign exchange lenders began to sue banks for unfairly taking money from them, and for unfairly taking extra costs from them. You know, it's also a very interesting thing that I used to work as an intern on the stock market as an assistant broker. What we did in the grain trade was that when I sell the grain in a future trade, I would like to sell this grain later, if I wanted to do it with an export transaction, it also has an exchange rate risk, if, say, the contract was made in euros or dollars or other currencies. In order to avoid this exchange rate risk on the trader in the grain trade, traders are doing so-called hedge transactions, the essence of which is that with the hedge on the stock exchange, it doesn't really matter where the exchange rate will move, if the exchange rate becomes more favourable, they will lose money on the stock exchange, but they will win it in trade, and if the exchange rate becomes less favourable, they will win it on the stock exchange and lose it in trade. So finally, the point is that the crop will be sold in HUF for exactly as much as when the contract was signed. If this is a normal, normal thing to do in the crop trade, then why couldn't it have been for the banks, who, by the way, know how to cover their risks, hedges to ensure that there is no exchange rate risk? ? while, by the way, the population was receiving very serious treatment costs. Thus, even the price of hedges was taken from the general public, but they were not supposed to make hedges. I don't think it was, but it was all a scam, and so I agree with the part of you that banks have to be accounted for in this, but you didn't initiate it, but the people who went to the court and started to win lawsuits, and when you started to win lawsuits, then the Curia's decision to make you move now. [[13.10]] With this money that the banks took unfairly? On the basis of this resolution, which, once again, is why, following the lawsuits won at the initiative of the people, you now have to make a law out of necessity? , can be settled with banks. Yes, but it was only part of the cost, and the other part was from the exchange rate change, the exchange rate change that occurred because of your government policy, and they do not want to take the consequences of that. As many people have already said before me, the Curia's decision is not that it cannot be accounted for at a more favourable rate than it is today, but that the exchange rate change should not be a burden on banks, because the exchange rate change did not occur because of banks; that is true. The banks that have taken money unfairly must be accounted for separately, which is due to the exchange rate change, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you, your government, should be responsible, and you should take steps to ensure that the people who have suffered so badly do not have to pay this extra burden. Therefore, there is only one fair solution that can be accepted: if you have settled the entire country by having the banks accounted for, then let us account for it, and not at today's exchange rate, beating people at the price of their failed economic policy and leaving the families on the edge of the bank, but in the same way that the wealthier people have been given the possibility of clearing the 180 forints Swiss francs, let us now guarantee the 180 forints Swiss francs settlement and the 265 forints for the settlement of the euro for everyone. That would be the honorable thing to do. And what you're really talking about is that now that you can't practically keep up with the banks the deal you made earlier, because this deal with the retail lawsuits has collapsed, you're bringing in the law of the fair banks, which should have started in 2010, and then I'd say that with the hat off, that's what you have to do, this is the way that Hungary can become a European country. No! For five years, you, in cooperation with the banks, have made a great deal of money from the pockets of Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses through increased extra burdens, and now you account for the banks to be accounted for, and you raise your hands and say that, well, you would have liked to vote for better political power, you did not, so you did. I hope that the Hungarian population will learn from this and begin to recognize who you really represent and what interests you represent. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-21-60	I am now giving the floor to Member István Tukacs in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-21-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow opponents, I do not understand why you are surprised at this situation. I don't understand why they believed for a moment what everyone promised from Minister Varga to Fidesz Prominents. I just want to remind you that the case of foreign exchange credentials, which appeared almost as an essence, say, in the catastrophic and shameful action of the Ocsai, began with the end-payment, which was obviously good for those who had money and who didn't. However, I would like to remind you of the credibility of the government and its majority. When I asked the author, Antal Rogán, quite clearly when I was negotiating the laws, if I remember correctly, whether there would be the possibility of a right of free withdrawal in the law, in Hungarian, that the person whose apartment had already been taken away and his mortgage law had been enforced, at least his credit would not be retained, then his reply was clearly yes. It's in the parliamentary records, you can trace it back. Now, is there a free retreat or not? That is why I do not understand why the majority of my fellow opposition Members are surprised that what the government has said has not happened. Of course that's not what happened. This was important until the municipal elections, and now it's not that important. I am far from supporting my fellow Members who draw attention to this clearly, but I would also like to point out that there are not many reasons for surprise. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-62	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] If there is no candidate, the joint joint debate will be closed. I'll ask Robert Répássy if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Then you're the word, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-21-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Most of the debate over the last four hours has been about who's to blame? It was about his question. Who's responsible? ? most people have been asking this question, and of course we have our opinion on it, and the government has a strong position on this issue. But we think it would be right for the Parliament to deal with solutions and, above all, to support the government in seeking solutions, because I think that we agree that the serious problem of foreign exchange lenders can only be solved by parliamentary decisions and laws, and the government has done everything for its part in recent years to make it easier for foreign exchange lenders. Of course, we never promised to solve the problem of foreign exchange credentials in one stroke, because it is a huge burden, it is hundreds of thousands of families; fortunately, foreign exchange credit is constantly falling in number, but there will always be those who need help. The government has submitted a bill to Parliament seven or eight times so far, depending on how many laws we count here. Earlier, in the previous parliamentary term, the Parliament dealt with the problem of foreign exchange creditors three times. First, did it allow a significant part of the foreign exchange lenders to pay off the lump sum? we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people -- and after that, he made it possible for the exchange rate barrier institution to help foreign exchange lenders escape the trap. Then, for those who could not escape, the device manager was created by the Parliament on the proposal of the government, so all those who were already in a hopeless situation, but we did not want them together to lose the lid above their heads, these people were helped by the asset manager. The new government established in 2014 and the Parliament now deal with the situation of foreign exchange creditors and, in general, the hundreds of thousands of families who borrow from consumers in the third and fourth laws. After all, first, the Parliament created the law declaring unfair terms invalid on the basis of several decisions made by the Curia's legal unit, and then created a law on the accountability of banks, resulting in the return of nearly HUF 1000 billion to families, families who are not only foreign exchange-credited, but also forint-credited. We are talking about about one million 300 thousand families who are in this situation, and against them the banks have acted unfairly. Forints 1000 billion are not small money, of course it doesn't get back to families in the same way; depending on the fact that unfortunately, it depends on how unfair the banks were against them, some are less affected by the obligation to repay, some are more affected and those families are put in a lighter position by the amount to be recovered from the banks. We have now come to the Parliament's decision on future stricter rules, which significantly tighten the conditions for the provision of consumer loans, and impose an information obligation in detail on the banks, both these legislative proposals and unilateral treaty amendments are limited by the legislative proposals before us. [[13.20]] And last but not least, this line includes the bill on the conversion of foreign currency loans. Together, this will significantly ease the situation of foreign exchange lenders. We have never promised, and now we cannot offer a solution that will eliminate the debt of foreign exchange lenders from one moment to the next, but these laws promise that a significantly reduced debt, a debt that can be planned at last in HUF, will be paid out in the next few years by families for which a planned HUF loan is a solution. Of course, let us also talk about the fact that there are credit agreements that can no longer be restored, and it is likely that these loans will not be repaid after the conversion. So we all know that Parliament has such a responsibility? And the government is aware of this responsibility? That all these laws that have now been passed by Parliament over the last five years, even they will not be able to draw everyone out of the trap. But the government promised not to leave anyone on the side of the road, and so it will be, after the banks are cleared, the government will also care about those to whom the changed credit conditions are not a solution. However, I would ask Members of Parliament, in addition to all the mutual accusations and all legitimate or less justified criticisms, that the two legislative proposals tabled by the Government, which significantly improve the situation of foreign exchange lenders and the situation of other borrowers, I would like to ask the House to support the proposals submitted by the Government next week with their votes. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-64	Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken at the meeting next week. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the general discussion and conclusion of the submission of the opinion of the State Court of Auditors are now under way. The bill is set out in T/1794. No T/1794/11, the opinion of the State Court of Auditors You can know him. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendments could be submitted by 4 p.m. yesterday. Today, the Parliament will discuss the bill within an eight-hour time frame. According to what was said at last week's house board meeting, the television broadcast takes until 5:00 today. In view of the amended agenda, the time frame for television broadcasting has also been changed. I would like to inform the participants of the meeting that the time frame of the factions during the television broadcasting period is now being displayed by my colleagues on the meeting room signpost and that they will be able to monitor the time frame on the board continuously. [[The time frame appears on the board.]] Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér.
u2014-11-21-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the change of government in 2010, economic policy has been aimed at increasing employment, improving competitiveness, ensuring balanced economic growth and reducing public debt and keeping the budget deficit below 3%. To this end, the government has made significant structural changes over the last four and a half years, including in the fields of labour market, pension system, tax system, education and public administration. The results show that the efforts to restore fiscal and financial balance, reduce public debt and adapt the labour market to demand and supply, and to restart economic growth, have already brought about the expected positive turn. The fact that Hungary has been removed from the excessive deficit procedure since 2004 after nearly ten years in June 2013 demonstrates the importance of the results achieved. A country's economy can only be successful if it supports the work and helps its citizens to work as much as possible. That is why it is glad that employment in our country continues to grow dynamically. According to the report of the Central Statistical Office, 4 million 182 000 people are already working in the July-September 2014 period, which is 192,000 more than a year ago. Unemployment has fallen to another low point, 2.4 percentage points, to 7.4 percent in the last year. In contrast to the employment policy of former socialist governments, since 2010, the government has committed itself to building a work-based economy in order to ensure that as many people as possible have a decent living in Hungary. Moreover, the competitiveness sector is increasingly contributing to employment growth, thanks to the government's well-functioning active employment programmes. Today there are 430,000 more people working than in early 2010; in the last year alone, the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by nearly 200,000. As a result of the extension of the job protection action and public employment programmes, there is also a positive trend in the labour market and the number of employees and people active is significantly higher than before the crisis. At the same time, the unemployment rate is constantly falling. In addition, the development of a work incentives tool has contributed to the positive process. As a result of the increase in teachers' wages and additional career models in the public sector in 2015, the increase in household consumption costs is expected to increase by 2.6 percent next year as a result of the increase in wages and employment, thus increasing real incomes. Accountancy of foreign exchange loans and thus additional income in the population also significantly contribute to the growth of consumption. Internal demand thus contributes increasingly to economic growth in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, With the 2014-2020 development cycle, a new era will begin in domestic development policy. The opportunities of Hungarian businesses will be multiplied from now on. In total, more than EUR 34 billion of aid is coming to Hungary. This, together with the necessary domestic co-financing, represents a HUF 12 000 billion development in the coming years. As in previous years, the government has given priority to the use of EU funds. In nominal terms, the area associated with the use of EU development is the largest beneficiary of the 2015 budget, as the budget spends more than HUF 2500 billion on programmes and investments from EU funds, which, by the way, represents a HUF 7.5 per cent of GDP, i.e. nearly HUF 350 billion, i.e. a 16 per cent increase compared to this year. Hungary is one of the biggest winners of the new EU budget cycle, and per capita support has never been as large in Hungary as it was in this budget cycle. [[13.30]] We have reached the second place in Europe in terms of EU money per capita. The government is prepared to use development resources in our country in a targeted and simpler way, and has also decided to devote 60% of resources to economic development based on increasing employment and competitiveness. It is also important that applicants can expect more transparent, simpler and rational tender procedures than before. Dear Parliament, A job instead of a relief? This is the principle of government policy. The government's long-term goal is to achieve full employment in close cooperation with the business world. That means everyone who can and wants can work. It is in everyone's interest that no one needs income support by 2018, because they will have a job to make a living or even grow from. The government's measures to encourage employment so far and economic policy have thus achieved the expected results: Hungary is performing better in employment. Within the European Union, unemployment has fallen to the greatest extent in Hungary over the last year. Employment is at a peak of 22 years, employment has been above 4 million for several months, and, as I said, the unemployment rate has fallen from 11 percent to 7.4 percent. The government's primary objective is to return aided to the world of work, for which a number of measures are still being taken in this government cycle. Over the coming years, those who are currently receiving employment replacements will gradually be transferred to the labour market, first expected, mainly to public employment and then to the primary labour market.In 2015, even more people will be provided with public employment. As in recent years, the 2015 priority is the continuation and gradual extension of the Start Work Programme. In addition to the average 200,000 public workers per year so far, in the second half of 2015, tens of thousands of people, some a quarter of those currently receiving income support, could be able to participate in public employment. The government's aim is to launch programmes that make it even easier to withdraw from public employment or to enter the competition sector. With the extension of the public employment system, the government has also created opportunities for those excluded from the primary labour market to participate in value-creating work. In particular, the government intends to increase the employment and employability of those who are disadvantaged in the labour market, those with low education, those who are permanently unemployed and people with disabilities. The overall objective of the programme is to promote a return to the competitive sector, the primary labour market. The start-up work programme will be financed by the National Employment Fund in 2015, which will be available at HUF 35 billion more than HUF 270 billion in 2014. National and sub-regional sample programmes may be launched next year, as well as municipal public employment programmes and social land programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the intention to boost employment, the scope of normative income replacement benefits is narrowed. At the same time as employment increases, aid and income support expenditure are substantially reduced. At the same time, local government aid will be strengthened, which will receive central fiscal support from less tax-powered municipalities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-21-66	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Attila Harangozó.
u2014-11-21-67	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The major development in the area of law enforcement is undoubtedly the introduction of a new professional career model in the budget proposal. At the same time, it's too early to open champagne in this case. Do you recall that in 2010 Viktor Orbán promised the police a good salary and career in his government program, something that he promised the police? I quote, literally, the advance of predictable and secure income or the solution to the housing situation is equally included. Then came the serious disappointment, instead of good pay, the freezing of wages, the abolition of service pensions instead of predictable advances, total uncertainty and existential fear. That's what the professionals got in the first four years of the Orbán government. In the autumn of 2010, but even in the spring of 11 the Ministry of the Interior was responsible for consulting trade unions in the field of law enforcement. Now they're acting like a classy stranger, like the last four years haven't happened. They are filling questionnaires with the staff, asking for opinions from trade unions, as if at least there had never been a talk about the introduction of a career model. However, just as it has been four years, the precise timetable for introduction, its precise impact on the progress and income situation of the stock is not visible. Which, after all these disappointments, can be a basis for some confidence that this time it has actually been written that wages will increase by 30 percent on average, true, only from the middle of the year, so 30 percent is obviously not true for the whole year. However, it is advisable to be cautious that this specific number appears not in the budget law itself, but only in its justification. Is there no special appropriation for the introduction of professional career models in the Budget Act, which is included in the very appropriate and very specific chapter? various payments will have to be made from a reserve of HUF 61.1, almost HUF 61.2 billion. This, let's say, characterizes the quality of the budget itself. The same budget line is shockingly and cynically the same, the same provision serves as the one-off expenditure resulting from the reduction in the number of persons planned for central budgetary bodies, in Hungarian, to cover the mass firing of people. While the 30 percent wage development plan for professional staff appears in several places in the explanatory memorandum, the bill is not too surprisingly silent about these firings. János Lázár's press conference alone suggests that the government is planning a massive downsizing in the public sector. The debate on the budget is an appropriate opportunity for the Government and my fellow members of the Government to finally gather up their courage and honestly tell us where and to what extent cuts are planned. In the end, it does not turn out that most of the appropriations under cover for the various payments were not earmarked for raising the salaries of law enforcement workers and soldiers, but for the financing of firings. This is why we have tabled an amendment, which clearly separates the amount promised to raise the salary of professional staff. With the support of this amending proposal, which is about the fact that HUF 44 billion is labeled, specifically allocated to the salary increase, my fellow members of the Government will be given the opportunity to resolve the doubts raised. The plan to raise the salary of professional staff is particularly welcome, by the way. Nor have we ever concealed our view that it is necessary to give high moral and material respect to those who swear to protect their country or their fellow citizens, even at the risk of their life and physical integrity. At the same time, we should not forget that law enforcement and the Hungarian Army are not only professional staff. As with any public administration or public institution, these bodies also have government officials, civil servants and other workers whose work is equally indispensable for everyday operation. Unfortunately, their situation is not improved by the budget before us, and indeed. The civil servants' salary base, which has remained unchanged since 2008, has not increased by a penny for the next year. While the government propaganda claims that Hungary is performing better, most public sector workers have not received a single wage increase in recent years. Is it significant that the 2011 tax changes will be offset? You know, fellow Members, because of the introduction of a single-key tax that you considered fair? even next year, HUF 51.7 billion will be paid to public sector workers. [[13.40]] Once again, I want everyone to understand that you will pay HUF 51.7 billion to ensure that people working in the public sector do not earn less in 2015 than they did in 2011. This is your fair one-key tax system. That is how much worse public sector workers would get if we were to enforce a single-key tax system against them that lied to the righteous. Therefore, in order to avoid wage tensions in law enforcement agencies and the Hungarian Defence Office, it is also inevitable to settle the wages of non-professionals, as well as to increase the salary base completely frozen in the previous government cycle. I would like to make it clear in advance that the right solution to alleviate tension is not what we have seen as a deterrent in the area of disaster management in recent years. There, civil servants were simply fired and replaced by disenfranchised public workers working for hunger wages at a law enforcement agency. In this respect, it is rather ominous that the task of developing a new career will be supervised by the Head of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection, György Bakondi, as ministerial commissioner. The distorted tax system of the Orbán government raises yet another important issue in terms of an average gross salary increase of 30 per cent. In 2013, 33,883 people in the Home Offices alone had to pay HUF 5.3 billion for wage compensation for the tax system I was just talking about. It follows that these people will lose 30 percent of their gross wages if the Orbán tax system is enforced against them without further compensation. In this case, stakeholders will be shocked that the amount actually transferred to a bank account at the beginning of the month will not increase by much by 30%. Another outstanding question, and there is no answer yet, is what will happen to the gross HUF 24,000 allowance that is paid to the deputy and ensign staff as additional allowances outside the salary table today. If the salary paid under the salary plan is increased while this additional allowance is abolished, this staff may easily face the fact that its monthly salary will not actually increase. So the budget proposal before us now raises more questions about the promised salary increase than it answers. We strongly draw the government's attention to the fact that the deputy officers and ensigns of the labour brigade and living in very difficult financial circumstances cannot be the loser of the detailed rules, so take into account both the distorting effects of the tax system and the special benefits now provided and, above that, ensure a real, substantial wage increase. Four years of treason, and after the repeated humiliation of the stock, it's about time. As far as the individual law enforcement agencies are concerned, the main task of the police will remain, in the future, the collection of funds. Control of e-toll payments will continue to be the responsibility of the police. We have repeatedly proposed to the Defence and Police Committee that we find it amazing that while tens of billions, hundreds of billions of people are slowly collected from the e-toll, this is how much revenue the government receives from this tax revenue, to this day, the professional police have been asked to verify the existence of these fees. Does that mean? So everyone can understand? That, in every county, policemen in uniforms, trained and equipped for the safety of county transport, are sitting in police cars, where nothing else happens but a camera to see if there is an e-toll on the truck or not. We have asked many times to draw attention to this type of waste of police resources, and every individual Member of Parliament or person concerned or interested in local government knows exactly how much it would be necessary to redirect these people in the countryside to carry out real public police tasks, and otherwise not to carry out a job that is practically similar to speed measurement, so once again I would like to point out that it is a matter of tens and hundreds of billions of forints of revenue, where it would be very easy for the government to resolve it in a different way, and not for the police to do so. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]] The other big question is that the Hungarian National Bank itself specifically drew attention in its opinion to the fact that it does not see that the HUF 40 billion is an extra resource? Will 169 billion revenues be expected next year? From this type of income, from the e-toll, I wonder what the reason is and what it comes from. If any of the present representatives of the government could justify this, they could answer not to me, but even to the official position of the Hungarian National Bank, it would be very honored, as this is also mentioned by the Hungarian National Bank as a very important risk to the budget next year. In addition, the government planned a total revenue of HUF 38 billion out of fines. A large part of this amount may also have to be collected by the police in the form of an infringement penalty and an objective administrative fine. I would note here that it greatly reduces the transparency of the budget, that, unlike the practice of previous years, fines collected on various items are not listed separately, so it is not possible to look at which type of fine within these fines, in terms of future or this year's report, which type of fine within HUF 38 billion? objective liability, violation penalty? how much it costs, and what processes are behind this, by the way. Because, by the way, perhaps the government and politics should also analyse the type of deviant behavior or activity that changes year after year and in what way. You can't find that out from these numbers. The budget provides HUF 1.68 billion for the implementation of the so-called public security programme, which is likely to mean continuing 24-hour service for a significant part of the country. Strengthening police presence in municipalities at risk of public security is a particularly welcome goal, but with the introduction of a new career model, they should end the permanent maintenance of exceptional solutions. Instead of campaign-like, continuous over-services and campaign-like actions involving unnecessary and wasteful movement of the stock, it is finally necessary to modernise the organizational structure and system of service organisation of the police. I'll say it in Hungarian. Is it likely that it can't be maintained permanently? Do I look at the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior? To take the police from the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron to the county of Hajdú-Bihar and back every day, or to feed them, to anesthetize them in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, to pay them overtime, and then to take them back to the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron. This is possible on a temporary basis at a time of great concern. You can't build and build a police force on this. Not only because it is not effective from a police point of view, but also because God's money is not enough. You spend as much money on this as you could have done with a decent service organisation, with a wage increase in the number of police officers who are on the ground and know the problems in the area. The main objectives of the police are the deployment of the 112 emergency system. This has been one of the largest and highly advanced projects of the Ministry of the Interior for years. It raises many questions and problems to this day. We'll see if we can finally get him to rest next year. The budget proposal envisages HUF 5.5 billion for the development of penitentiary institutions. This is indeed urgently needed. At the same time, there is no apparent change in the number of prisoners that oversaturations will be one of the biggest problems, the inherent and clear cause of which is the failure of your criminal policy, the immediate shutdown of the type of criminal policy, instead of making amends, rather than making amends for the victims, and instead of taking people back into society in the first place. Finally, it is not possible to go without saying that the closures that have been made this year have been incorporated into the base in the planning of next year's budget at both the bv and the secret services, especially at the NBSZ. It seems like if they get more money, it's a cheating number, here hundreds of millions of forints less for each organization, because this year's abstract money was announced once again as a base. We ask you that our amendments, which have been resubmitted, that the BSZKI have money to develop, that TEK be returned to the police's organizational system, and that the wage increase be named in the budget, should also be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[13.50]]
u2014-11-21-68	I now give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2014-11-21-69	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the 2015 budget was negotiated, we adopted tax laws with strong criticism from the opposition side. But I ask you: what is the basis for maintaining large subsystems, if not tax revenues? Our tax policy, which has been launched since 2010, has, in my opinion, brought its results, and, if possible, we have tried to involve everyone in a fair public burden. Dear House, The budget ahead will continue in 2015, taking into account macroeconomic data, the process of growth that we started, which is recognised by the European Union and the IMF. We calculate our data according to Eurostat, and the result of our joint cooperation is that they were forced to release us from the excessive deficit procedure in 2013 in compliance with the rules of the game. I would like to emphasise this, ladies and gentlemen, because there have been some objections to whether we will ever get out of the excessive deficit procedure. And I'm just gonna ask you quietly, who were in the government since 2004, who couldn't lead this country out of the overdeficit procedure? This is why it is important that the Hungarian government was able to get the country out of the excessive deficit procedure in an appropriate way, with appropriate budgets. The government's economic policy for a sustainable budgetary path is also recognised by the financial markets. A GDP increase of 3.2 per cent is likely to occur in 2014 as a whole. The government remains committed to ensuring a budgetary deficit and a declining path to public debt. The deficit-to-GDP target next year is 2.4 percent. As a whole, a 2.5 percent increase in GDP is projected. Household consumption is increasing by 2.6 percent, thanks to the measures that have been introduced so far: education wage increases, career models, reduction of costs, employment growth. We expect inflation to be 1.8 percent, that's what we're expecting. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Yesterday, listening to my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács, who spoke in a small farmer's approach, I came to the decision to analyse the budget from the Christian Democratic-Christian approach of the Fidesz-KDNP Federation, such as the German CDU-CSU. I would therefore like to point out that the conclusion of the alliance between KDNP and Fidesz was of crucial importance in the fate of the country. This cooperation is the most successful construction of Hungary and the Union. I am convinced that the principles, the implementation and implementation of values are largely included in Hungary's achievements so far. The foundations of our system of consciousness are the most solid in existence, and therefore, in determining a budget that assumes a stable financial background and a predictable legal order, it enforces these principles. Therefore, what is needed is good and firm to strengthen families, to create a budget that promotes economic growth. The three most important objectives that the budget for the future must promote: strengthening families, job creation and economic growth. They are not only to be supported, but they are absolutely coincident with the most fundamental Christian Democratic system of thought: support for families, protection of values, the idea of social justice, the creation of a common good, the creation of a national identity. CHAPTER XVI In his encyclical Caritas in Veritate, Pope Benedict emphasizes that today's degree of prosperity in Europe is unimaginable without the dynamic shape of the entrepreneur. The economy must serve the man, and only entrepreneurs can create the economy, successful entrepreneurs. Economic growth serves the common good in this system of thought. That is why economic self-determination and economic development are important. Dear House, I would like to highlight one of many aspects of our Christian policy, and this is an important aspect of national commitment. This shows the budget from a different perspective. A strong nation means strong communities, strong families, a strong economy and a Hungarian with faith in the future. In all the decisions that put the Hungarian families first, the incentive to have children, to improve demographic indicators, to increase the nation, the education that our future depends on, our tax policy, economic self-determination, the greatest economic development programme of all time; these represent both thinking in the nation and the most determined stand for national interests. We are all responsible to the Hungarian nation for all our decisions in time and space, when we make decisions that affect the lives of Hungarian people, families, children, the elderly, entrepreneurs. We therefore support, help and implement the budget for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Some areas are taken away: family comes first. Next year, we are taxing family tax systems and the working families will have 240 billion HUF left in their pockets. The total gross salary remains in the pocket of families with small incomes and multiple children. We also encourage marriage with a new tax discount. We're starting a new home support program. Due to bank accountability, HUF 1000 billion can be returned to Hungarian families, and the repayments may be reduced by up to 25-30 percent. Public employment will be available to more people, the job protection plan will continue, and there will be a tax relief after part-time employment of parents with small children. Free textbook supply, teacher's wage increase, compulsory kindergarten from the age of three. More money to support and improve sport? I'm just gonna characterize that with one sentence? , but there is also more money in health care for development, debt settlement, increasing the benefits of GPs. There are so many people who criticize the support invested in sport, and I would like to note that this is one of the best investments in order not to have so many people present in healthcare. My fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, who spoke before me about law enforcement workers, said that what the government has planned for this budget year was not enough, although in all its sectors, internal affairs, bv, the budget itself has increased, and in addition, of course, there is a 30 percent increase in salaries, which many have criticised, but it must be acknowledged that this will be achieved and that we will satisfy a long-standing demand. I would also like to point out here that a new housing support programme is also being launched in the field of defence. Then it should be mentioned in particular that agricultural sales cooperatives will not pay local business tax in the future. However, progress has been made in relation to the VAT reduction that many people have criticised, since, in addition to the VAT of the pig slaughtered, there has been a 5% VAT chance for slaughtered beef and sheep, and, of course, there is even talk of the introduction of reverse VAT in certain areas. We started on this road as well. And in agriculture, I must also note that there is more resources for the school milk scheme, more resources for the healthy fruit supply of children, and just yesterday Mr Secretary of State announced his proposal for honey, which is also moving towards a healthy meal for children. [[14.00]] Yesterday, this House, as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, I have also dealt with the defence chapter, but now as a member of another committee, as a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to draw the attention of the House of Representatives and the torque, because this, if you like, was welcomed with a kind of gloat about what will become of Hungary's budget for 2014-2020. Well, the government, my fellow Members, has been able to negotiate so successfully, of course, not through easy negotiations, that an unprecedented EU resource of HUF 12 000 billion will arrive in this country, more than ever. And yet this is the result of the government's trial. Of course, we will be able to achieve a key economic development in the coming period, with emphasis on economic development and job creation. Here, allow me a little detour, because in the 2007-2013 budget period, when the Socialist Party defined regional operational programmes, it would have had the opportunity to devote much more to economic development. This may not be where the country's economy would be if they had planned a little more to develop the economic sphere, and this would not have put the country in the position it was in at the time of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2015 budget bill, in order to avoid unforeseen risks, there will be a Country Protection Fund once again, and there will be 60 billion HUF available next year to deal with the financial problems of central budgetary bodies, which can be used after the government's decision. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said earlier, the KDNP faction supports what is set out in the 2015 budget, and will try to achieve to the greatest extent possible what has been formulated here. Thank you for listening, thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-70	I now give the floor to Congressman Cutter Sebestyén.
u2014-11-21-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the context of the 2015 budget, I would like to talk primarily, and even exclusively, about matters of my own area of expertise, social issues. First of all, I would like to talk about the shocking fact that in the 2015 budget, we see no sign of a social career model hovered by the government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 12 billion HUF!]] I also spoke to the Government on oral questions in this regard, and I was told that another advocacy organization had joined the negotiations, but there were formal errors in the agreement, which was not the case. Compared to this, a technical obstacle or two should be removed, so that the career model, which so many people are waiting for in the area, can be achieved, we see no trace of it in the 2015 budget. This means that the next time the employees in the sector can expect their wages to increase from 1 January 2016. Unfortunately, we can conclude that in Hungary today, a person working in a social field with a secondary education in the social field has a lot less money in many cases than the clients he has to deal with within his profession. A lot of people are actually on the verge of starving to death. This is why we are experiencing the fact that, in Hungary, social professionals with a high level degree, a lot of experience and a lot of skills, instead of using their knowledge in accordance with their qualifications and qualifications, the knowledge they have acquired from Hungarian taxpayers' money, are forced to care for persons with disabilities or older persons, to take care of them in Western Europe or, in the worst case, in a hotel, or to fill the shelves in the Berlin, London or Dublin stores of a multinational supermarket chain. This is a waste. The only way to stop this waste is to get the workers in the sphere what they deserve the wages they actually pay for the work and the responsibility they have to pay. We expect quality work from them, because much depends on the quality of the work they do. Compared to this, the state is not trying to reward them, and the state is not trying to provide them with this in any way financially. Here it may come to pass that there are no people in the business who can carry this system on their shoulders. In the case of many problems, the question arises, regardless of the faction, when negotiating a bill that emerges in connection with a larger problem, it is said from each faction that this question must be dealt with in a complex way. I would like to mention an example taken. The last time we discussed laws on pedophile crimes, we heard the statement from every faction that this issue should be dealt with in a complex way, only by cooperation can solve this problem, and this phenomenon can be reduced. Taking this example as an important cornerstone of this system, the most important tool for solving the problem is the social and child protection care system. Compared to this, we find that there will be withdrawals from this area on the basis of the 2015 budget. Returning to what I said earlier, if we want to deal with problems in a complex way, if we look at the situation in a complex way, how do we want to be able to provide adequate professional and human assistance in stopping or reversing life courses in recognition, prevention, or in a slippery or out of line, if these resources are increasingly reduced, the resources for these programs and professional activities are reduced. So we will not be able to solve these problems, either. In my opinion, I may be a barbarist, but I think that I can solve many social and clearly social problems, but even health and mental problems, who can prevent, prevent a well-functioning social and child protection system that discovers problems in time, discovers problems in time, and can provide assistance at appropriate, local level or even at a level appropriate to the nature of the problem. And whether you can stop further damage or preventatively, you can rule out the possibility of damage and damage at all. So I think, instead of giving these programmes less budget, these programmes need to be supported more intensively, with much larger amounts and with much larger amounts. It is included in a decision on government plans for 2012-2014, since we look at the complex system, the concept of school social worker. The concept of a school social worker, which should have been introduced by 1 September 2013, and since then social workers should be active in schools in order to eliminate the problems mentioned in the above topics, to identify problems, to resolve crisis situations and to resolve them. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]] In comparison, we do not even see a trace of this in the 2015 budget. So it's already possible to cover a three-year slip. For this reason, in order to eliminate this omission, its failure to comply with its own decision, and to help eliminate it, we included such a item in the 2015 budget as an amendment, so that, yes, if it is already a two-year delay, but on 1 September 2015, this kind of institution can start. These people can start their sacrifices and helping children from September 1st in educational institutions. We also experience in society that the drug problem is becoming an increasing problem. And we also find that the system we have so far, whether we look at the costs we have spent on it or whether we look at the programmes, in many cases it is not practical. The problem is growing. For this reason, we do not understand that the amount allocated for this has not increased for many years. That is why we also suggested an increase in the amount of drug prevention. In a pro-government speech, we heard that the 2015 budget shows that it wants to promote the work of people who have been unemployed for a long time and, as an example, the employment of people with disabilities. Compared to this, the employment support for people with disabilities is reduced by 15 percent in the 2015 budget compared to the 14th budget, and the additional earnings of persons with disabilities are reduced by 17 percent. [[14.10]] I am reading the exact opposite of what my colleague in favour of the government, who spoke before me, said in the 2015 budget. Either it's in me, or it's in him, or the system's the way it is, it's wrong. I think we should find an intermediate solution to that, to answer that. The other very big problem, which we have been saying for years, and there is also an ombudsman's report on it, is the situation of child psychiatry. There are currently 60-70 child psychiatrists working in Hungary. There is a great shortage of inpatient care facilities for children in psychiatric settings, but do we see that the current children are? I'm not going to tell you about the effects? what mental problems they have, how increased the number of suicide attempts under the age of 18 has increased, compared to this we see in the field of inpatient care institutions or even the number of doctors that there is, for example, no such institution in Western Hungary. How do we expect the mental problem of our children to be resolved, a very large number of such problems among children, whether in terms of European relations or even in European terms, to change if we do not spend more money on this? How do we expect a medical student to choose a child's psychiatry before choosing a career if he sees that he has no opportunity to serve his or her practical time or practice in his or her chosen field? We are looking forward to these answers, and we have also tried to answer these problems with our amendments. Now we can only trust that this will be accepted. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-72	Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Schmuck... [[For signal:]] Excuse me, I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-21-73	Thank you very much. The congresswoman may stop calling, and I would like to respond to what has just been said. What the Member has drawn attention to is obviously almost everyone in the basic position agrees that people who work in social institutions are doing one of the most difficult jobs in both physical and psychological terms. Indeed, society's poorest, most needy, whether it is childhood or adult, is being cared for in their old age, and they are, in fact, given the highest possible recognition, not only in words but also in actions. The congressman said he missed you? Literally, you said you couldn't see him? in the 2015 budget, the extra appreciation of these people. There's a mark on the budget. This is called a sectoral wage supplement, which has been published in next year's budget, a total of HUF 12 billion, which will be paid to the employees from 1 January this year. This is the case for some who have 7,000 forints, some who are worth 12,000 forints, which is already a noticeable amount, but far from what we would like to give these people, who are really doing superhuman work in the institutions. That is why the social career you have said is important, the first step of which has been achieved from 1 January this year, and we will ensure that it will be covered next year. As you know, after the reform of the institutional system, just as we have developed the pedagogical career, we want to offer a career here, but what we need to do first is to do the transformation within the institution where we think we can use it more efficiently and provide these people with a better quality of service or public service. Why hasn't the agreement been signed? Do you know, Congressman, that on 1 October an agreement was reached on the signing of this text, both parties agreed on what content should be in this text and then when you came? I think two weeks ago on Monday? the day of the signature, then Minister of State Czibere waited in his room for the representatives of the trade unions who came and said that it was true that they said that they would sign this text at the beginning of October, but they would not sign it. Then, two or three days later, a demonstration was organized, and then Mr. Secretary of State Czibere said that he was waiting for them not in the morning, but in the afternoon, to sign the previously agreed text, and the trade unions did not come, and they did not sign it. Meanwhile, another large trade union association, representing the workers in the sector, expressed its view that it would negotiate and that it did not consider those protesting as representative. I think that if everyone could have agreed on the agreed text and signed what we adopted a month ago, then there would be a more peaceful atmosphere here, too. In any case, we consider the sectoral pay gap to be important, because the people who work here are the most important to make them feel more respected than they did a few years ago. We're hoping this could grow further. The Prime Minister on Monday at the hour of immediate questions and answers? You were probably here, too? He said he made the promise that next year we'd come up with this career model. About the issue of children's meals? Is this a social issue that is closely linked to this? You know very well that four and a half years ago, Congressman, there was HUF 29 billion in the budget for child meals. This 29 billion was 53 billion this year, and next year it will be 58 billion forints, so in 4 years we doubled the amount to be spent on children's meals. 150,000 children with a discount, and 270,000 children can eat free of charge, so it is ensured that by introducing compulsory kindergartens, there will be no starving children from the age of 3, because whose parents cannot provide them with this, the state will provide it. From the parents to do this job? if someone can't or doesn't want to take care of him? the state will take it away, and in kindergarten, in school, it will provide healthful meals for everyone several times a day. If you look at the budget, you will find an additional HUF 16 billion in social services and child welfare services; to improve the quality of the institutions, you will find an extra HUF 2 billion of this. So I think that in this area, if in small steps, but far beyond inflation, we are trying to improve the situation of those who work here. But we know very well that we still have work to do by increasing these items further in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-74	I now give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik.
u2014-11-21-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Allow me to give you a brief information on the items related to the European Union in particular, as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, on the 2015 budget. As my fellow Members obviously know, this year was the 10th anniversary of our country's accession to the European Union, and we have heard many times between the evaluations at various conferences where I participated? Whether it was spoken by artists close to the government or the opposition? But one thing that has come up together at these conferences is this statement that we have not been able to take advantage of the benefits of our membership of the European Union over the last 10 years. I believe that such so-called opinions have been a call, a challenge to the government, particularly in the last year, to learn from the mistakes of the past period, namely the 2007-13 EU tendering system, that in the new period? the EU budget period 2014-20? we have a much less but more focused objective to really implement projects for the development of the real economy and for the expansion of employment; not only from our own point of view, because the government has a programme, such as job creation, the achievement of full employment, which is in line with the European Union directive, which we call Europe 2020, where these goals have also been formulated in recent years. Well, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that EU experts from both the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of National Economy have worked well in designing EU proposals and financial systems for the EU budget period 2014-20, because, for example, by studying the current budget, I see that the budget for 2015 can be given a lot of names, but most of all it could be that it is the budget of EU funds. I mean, next year? as has been said several times in the last general debate? perhaps we have the opportunity to pay most of the EU's resources at all times, and this will certainly set out the budget for the following year. [[14.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, As a starting point, I would like to stress that the basis for what we have just said is the so-called partnership agreement between the European Commission and Hungary, which was finalised during the summer, which sets out the conditions for drawing funds from the most important EU funds in the period 2014-2020, namely the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. As Minister Varga pointed out in his expo, the Partnership Agreement therefore provides for Hungary to receive some EUR 25 billion of funds, which, together with the necessary domestic co-financing and the so-called non-budget agricultural subsidies, represents a total development of HUF 12 000 billion in the period 2014-2020. It's a lot to say, that's the amount. Looking back on past EU budget cycles, I believe that we can safely say that we are sitting in any part of the horseshoe, that as much support has not yet come to Hungary as in this budget cycle. We're talking huge amounts. But at this point, it's just a possibility. This is not money issued on a blank cheque, which every municipality or electorate receives, but must do so. This is a huge responsibility, especially for the government, and I believe that this responsibility is seen in the development of this system in order to try to facilitate the drawing up of EU funds. It is also a responsibility for those who apply, whether they are entrepreneurs or local authorities, because a tender must not only be written, not only submitted, it must not only be won, it must be implemented, and it must be operated for at least five years, since we must not forget that not only the Hungarian bodies but also the European Union bodies control the implementation of these funds. Then again, I would like to highlight the fact that a number of people in the detailed debate have already done that the government wants to devote 60% of its resources to economic development based on increasing employment and competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen. So that's what it means for applicants? An important message? that in the future, not only in the next year, but in the next seven-year cycle, we can expect much more transparent, simpler and rational tender procedures than before. I believe that from here, too, we should thank those members of the foreign affairs government who have worked out this possibility in the last two or three years, who have fought their own battle in Brussels. I am thinking, for example, of the Secretary of State, Enikő Győri, who set up a group of cohesion friends, whose collective lobby would not have allowed us to fight this much EU funding. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already pointed out that 2004 is a historic turning point, not only because we joined the European Union at that time, but it was also a turning point, unfortunately negatively, because this year the European Union's longest overdeficit procedure has been launched against Hungary, which lasted nearly nine years and has been abolished due to the disciplined fiscal policy of the civilian government. So if we look at the so-called Maastricht criteria for next year's budget, I believe that we have nothing to be ashamed of, since the budget deficit remains below the 3% threshold, it is expected that it will fall to 2.4 percent of GDP and the public debt-to-GDP ratio to 75.4 percent of GDP. These positive developments are also supported by high GDP growth figures in the EU comparison, which led the European Commission to improve its previous data on Hungary in its autumn forecast with a positive tone. Ladies and gentlemen, Taking into account the general debate over the last two days, what has been said in the budget debate, in short, I think it is also worth talking about the European Commission's possible role in relation to the draft budget law. This is the European semester. Has the Committee on European Affairs talked about this a lot in the last three to four years? And did my fellow Member Balczó have a favorite theme? And we've been around it a lot, either on the opposition or on the part of the ruling party. Yes, because this raises serious problems of sovereignty. I would like to say that the objective of economic policy coordination, called the European Semester, is for Member States to align their budgetary and economic policies separately with the objectives and rules adopted at EU level? Which is a very difficult job? , i.e. the Europe 2020 strategy mentioned earlier. To this end, the European Commission makes so-called country-specific recommendations on the annual convergence programme submitted by the government each year and on the National Reform Programme. I would also like to stress that the Parliament has a commission, the Committee on European Affairs, where we have studied and discussed this programme and recommendations in detail, and we always invite not only the expert of the Ministry of National Economy, but also the Ambassador on behalf of the European Commission, and here we get to know the views of both the government and the European Commission. Dear Parliament, On the subject of EU development, I would like to highlight a few specific features. On the one hand, it is important to remind my fellow Members of the n+2 rule. The year 2015 is the last year in this respect when the EU funds allocated in the 2007-2013 development cycle can and should be used. So in Hungarian, the resources that we cannot pay until 31 December 2015 are essentially lost. Therefore, in this respect, the bill is fully absorbed in the interests of the country, so, as Prime Minister said, we do not want a single cent to roll back to Brussels. The goal is not to get caught up in EU funding. Does all this also mean that even next year is still about? Write it and say it? Forints 1400 billion of EU funds should be sent to applicants in order to successfully complete projects for the period 2007-2013. It's a huge task. But I believe that the task is beautiful and the goal is noble, so that no cents roll back to Brussels. And is there really a need for a new system that the government has built and, on the other hand, for such cooperation? here not only with entrepreneurs, but also with local governments and everyone who has submitted an EU application? that it must be implemented. Another feature of the year 2015 is that it also provides for EU grants for the period 2014-2020, worth some HUF 300 billion. Projects for the new period will be included in the operational programmes to be finalised soon. We hope that Brussels will approve this by 31 December. As my fellow Members have already mentioned in the debates, next year we will be able to draw more than HUF 2500 billion of EU funding in the budget, together with the necessary domestic co-financing. Outside the budget, so to speak, directly to farmers, and the sum of the lots allocated to producers is HUF 389 billion. [[14.30]] At the same time, we need to see that the scale has another pan, which is nothing more than deposits. We should also mention this: the Hungarian contribution to the EU budget, which amounts to HUF 295 billion. The numbers here speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to highlight three other factors in the next year's budget very briefly: (1) the EU's self-esteem fund, (2) the issue of its own resources for the development of local authorities in the EU, and (3) the issue of territorial cooperation at the border. The EU's self-esteem fund has been of great help to us so far, with HUF 26 billion foreseen next year. The main aim of this is therefore to support the self-power of public beneficiaries receiving support from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund. Self-strength has always been the biggest obstacle to the drawdown of EU funds, by the way. The second is that there is 16.9 billion forints available to support the additional own resources of local authorities and their associations' development proposals in the European Union. Here too, a lot of times, the question of self-strengthening has been a problem for the municipalities, for the state has always tried very hard to do good. Finally, cooperation is the most intensive in relation to cross-border territorial cooperation in the Hungarian-Romanian and Hungarian-Slovakian context. In these two relations alone, about HUF 10 billion will be available next year. I would like to stress that the concrete implementation of this can be felt on both sides of the border, and that is why it is important to present this in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this budget will indeed also be a budget for European Union proposals. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-76	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2014-11-21-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget is a summary of a government's economic and social policy. That's what Minister Mihály Varga said yesterday [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Or the day before yesterday.]] In your intro, and so do we. The question is, of course, on what aspects we judge an economic and social policy. Let's take a look at it first, according to your commitment. In the Széll Kálmán plan, you summarized their main objectives and main programmes for 2011-2015. But what happened during these four years? They promised to say that the budget deficit would be 1.5 percent, that the debt would fall to 65%. We already know that this is not going to happen, and these are not going to be fulfilled. The economy of the state has not been achieved either; the state spends much more on itself than it did in 2010. Although social and pension systems were already being squeezed, this was overachieved, 132 billion more were withdrawn. Education expenditure fell from 5.8 percent to 4.7 percent. This alone means a cut of 350 billion forints. In English: have you failed to achieve that financial stability? low budget deficits and declining debt? what was planned, while still being harshly restrictive, which continue to exist in the current draft budget. To what do we owe this? For example, why don't you reduce the debt while the deficit is pressed down to less than 3 percent? The reason for this is in one sentence: the government's economic policy has failed, it has failed fundamentally. But we can also look at the individual elements. The government's biggest failure is to stay in debt. The pension savings of HUF 3000 billion were absconded, and by doing so, they made implicit debt, they made a series of cuts, and yet the debt did not decrease. The conclusion of domestic strategic partnerships didn't count for anything, the income outflow didn't decrease. In addition, strategic partners are at the forefront of taking the money home instead of investing again; 1000 billion will be made out of the country. The one-key transmitter failed, too. They left 444 billion forints at your top five while taking 134 billion from the poorer. The latter effect is obviously poverty, but the latter has failed to have a positive impact on the expected consumption and investment. Why? It would be a long time now, the point is that the single-key tax is also a failure in economic policy. Due to the lack of domestic capital formation, our export dependency has not been reduced. Our economy continues to depend on some large multi-company groups, like four or eight years ago. The import rate on the Hungarian market has not decreased in the basic needs articles. This can be tried with administrative force, but without being competitive domestic and local products, it cannot be changed. Then it's just that instead of Tesco, the CBA will bring in the import thing. We haven't lost external energy dependence. György Matolcsy promised a 500 billion-dollar renovation programme in March 2010. If that had been achieved, our energy bill would have been much smaller now. We have not invested in the future, instead of developing renewable energies to support small businesses, we have taken on a huge debt and an unmanageable giant project: Paks II. Special taxes introduced because of lost revenues are attractive things, can't get out from under them, safe income, can be targeted, they only have a lot of side effects: they reduce investment, and if they start to apply it to all sectors without necks, often with a political penalty, they destroy the economy. The effect is now ripe. They strangle the economy, the free initiative. In all markets, they want oligopolistic equipment where the oligarchs associated with Fidesz prevail. This creates resources for themselves to remain in power, while small businesses that are the engine of the economy are strangled. The Hungarian economy is sinking into a feudal swamp, who wants to achieve something and not work as an employee, flees the country. The negative effects of this are beginning to appear. They're removing resources from education. This will have a longer-term impact, but it will be worse than that. Because of the pango economy and the money hunger of the lunar yard, they have begun to weaken the control of environmental conditions, to divide the areas that have been protected so far, i.e. to revive the existing natural capital. Again, this is a threat to the foundations of recovery. So they promised that the country would be on a sustainable path in 2015 and that the budget would be stable. In addition to the fact that, according to each opinion, reserves have been underdesigned, it is possible to see how many changes have been made to the budget in each year. 10 amendments in 2011, 14 amendments in 12, 11 amendments in 2013 and 6 amendments in 2014? I note that so far; there may be more. That is, Fidesz has always created budgets that have failed in the first months, a series of adjustments and cuts had to remain standing. After that, it is hard to believe that it will be different. So the Széll Kálmán plan was far from being fulfilled, the promises remained promises. Allow me to criticise your economic policy in a different way. You have embedded a bad economic structure, and a particular structure determines the possibilities. A bad economic structure can't be a very good result. You have not only sided with banks, but also with investors' capital, multinational companies, against small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. They have a strategic partnership with the multinationals. Are they well supported to make some? And I mean that literally? create a job and move their profits out of the country. They're proud of the car industry, but they forget that in times of crisis, you don't buy a car. And I also note that it is quite shocking to read something like what is on the Index page today, that you promised earlier that Audi would be given HUF 11.2 billion to expand its factory in Győr, and then it turns out that four times as much as 40 billion will be spent under the grass. It is simply astounding how taxpayers' money is being raided! And by the way, the end of this process is community service for hunger, which you are very, very proud of. I would like to say a few more words about the scales and the proportions. We would very much like to know how items such as 5.26 billion of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, 44 billion of the Olympic Centre, 20 billion of the stadiums, 5 billion of the Prime Minister's Office to move to Castle, 28 billion of the Paks II. [[14.40]] This is more than 100 billion in total, and you say on the other side - you say that you will give 10 billion to the development of the GP network, or that you will postpone the introduction of the second child benefits from 2015, which yesterday, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács criticized. We think it would be time for you to slow down a little bit, talk to people and the opposition, and indeed, create an economic policy, which is a way out, which is really in the interests of the people. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-21-78	I now give the floor to Szabolcs Szabó, the first independent representative.
u2014-11-21-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to read my comment in view of time. First of all, the draft budget for 2015 does not contain anything new. Clearly, Hungary will continue the path that the second Orbán government started next year, that is to say, it will take away from the poor and give to the rich. They bleed public education, higher education, health care, support stadium constructions and prestige investments without necks, and introduce countless new taxes and raise taxes. This budget is not in the interests of Hungarian society, it is in the interests of the Fidesz community. In other words, we could say that this is a fever-dream budget. You always say that a well-performing Hungary, a better performing Hungary, presents itself, while all we see is the image of the country of public workers, the poor, the hungry, the undernourished and the uneducated. But you're not willing to deal with that. Let us take a closer look at the situation of children, social spending and education. If we had to give the budget an address on this basis, we would have given this bill about the way to nothing or the way to poverty and backwards. In the introduction, you say that the 2015 budget preserves the results of governance so far. Do you really want to preserve that every third child is without you? This, by the way, is 31.9 percent of people under the age of 18. Do you really want to preserve the caste system that was created in public education? Is the goal really to reduce the number of students in high school and increase the number of students in vocational schools? Is the goal really to reduce the number of people going to universities and colleges? Indeed, this is the 21st. Hungary of the century, for which do we receive European subsidies? For example, expenditure on education is falling in proportion to GDP, which has already been referred to by our fellow Member Schmuck. In particular, expenditure on public education can be considered to be highly under-planned. The money that was planned for the KLIK, by the way, the MNB found that it would not be sufficient. In any case, additional resources will have to be transferred over the course of next year, even if they reduce the allowed limit for KLIK by 2 thousand people. You're either gonna have to let people go or you're not gonna be able to fill their status. And even if they try to transfer additional costs to local authorities on the basis of the public education law amendment that we know very well that there weren't too many chalks in schools, there was no flipchart, the digital board or the projector didn't work, because KLIK didn't have the money. In higher education, a very modest increase has been envisaged, but it should be added that, compared to the amount a few years ago, this is also a very low amount, and without money there will be no quality education. Without quality education, there will be no catch-up, so the only thing that my pro-government colleagues achieve is that they are flooding the labour market with people who are poorly trained, non-lingual, unable to learn a new profession, and who, of course, cannot find a job, but will only be able to work as public workers. Your role model, by the way, is Russia, as we have learned in the last year, so let me quote Lenin: study, study, study! ? Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead. At least they'll accept that he was right if they don't listen to opposition representatives. We have tabled some symbolic amendments to higher education for the development of the KLIK, the Pedagogical Services and the daily physical education of gym building, at the expense of the investment in Paks, the grants to Eximbank, the National Cooperation Fund. We hope that at least these symbolic proposals will be supported, and the whole budget structure will be accounted for by their consciences and voters. With the latter, I think you'll have a bigger problem. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-21-80	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-21-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, I would therefore like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that when he says such big words about the electorate, he should look at the parliamentary proportions, because the electorate has given three opinions this year, and you cannot, not least, form a pro-government faction, but not even a faction. And when you make the criticism, I trust that you, as a Democrat, consider the will of the people to be the supreme decision-maker in this country. And people said that the policy of the last four years wasn't about poverty. The policy of the past four years has not been about isolation from knowledge, but the past four years have brought them a policy of the kind, as opposed to the politics of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai, which they thought should be continued, and not by a few votes more people thought this was necessary, but by a marked number of people. So, when you say that it has been poverty for four years, and this new budget fits into this series, please take into account not only the opinion of your fellow parties, but also the opinion of the public opinion of Hungary. Would you and Erzsébet Schmuck have the following few thoughts, though he did? As usual, as almost all opposition representatives do? As soon as he finishes his speech, he'll get his card, his hat, and he'll be gone, because he's not here to argue, he'll just tell us the money he's charged, and then he'll be gone. By doing so, it greatly reduces its credibility that after that it no longer wants to defend its position, but simply reads it if necessary. Respect for the exception, for the Members who are here, I also give my compliments [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] I don't want to be like the bad priest who curses the parishioners who aren't there. So thank you to the people who are here. From the LMP fraction, I see there's no one in Parliament right now. So, Congresswoman, you said this is a budget for austerity. I would like to ask you, in the country where the total national product increases by 3.9 percent this year, and to a similar extent next year, we hope that it will rise, what is needed in this 2-3 percent band to tighten then [[Dr. László Varga: That's what we're asking.]] when the country's economy is expanding. There would be a need for austerity when, as at the time of the socialists, the country's economic performance decreased by 7 percent in 2008-2009, they did indeed use this instrument, but fortunately, in the case of an expanding economy, we have the opportunity to decide on additional resources in some sectors. They also said that Erzsébet Schmuck, perhaps an independent fellow Member, said that poverty is increasing in Hungary. From what I can see, employment is growing. If there are hundreds of thousands more people working in one country, more and more every year, then we can say that poverty is also decreasing, because in the greatest poverty, obviously, those who do not have a job, who have spent 20-30 thousand forints of aid, are now able to make a living from a public wage of up to 70,000 forints or above 100,000 forints, at least from a minimum wage. [[Dr. László Varga: We need to get out of downtown!]] It's still not a big sum, obviously, but it's a lot more than they used to live on aid. When you mention the single-key tax, I would always ask you to add that this is a single-key, family-type taxation, because it is a huge difference that for those who raise children, both from the tax rate and from the contribution rate, we have allowed families the kind of tax rate that may still be found in France, but not in other European countries, and this is how it should be assessed in their social impact; the incentive of a single-key tax for performance, the bleach effect of a single-key tax, that the small personal income tax rate obviously encourages everyone to declare their entire income legally, the system that was known to everyone five years ago, that someone had been declared minimum wage, and that the remaining money had been put into pocket. This is not good for anyone, not for the person, not for the employer, not for the state, not for the public register. It had to be stopped somehow, which is why we needed a one-key low tax. [[14.50]] My fellow Member mentioned a reduction in the number of high school seats. Tell me what line of the Hungarian budget bill you read this from. How do you get this number from the budget? Undoubtedly, we would like more people to study in vocational training and vocational education, as this is one of the ways out of education, unemployment, if they gain such a degree in 3 years, in 4 years, but this year's secondary education is HUF 209 billion, 13 billion more in the budget instead of HUF 196 billion. By spending more on the 14-18-year-olds, where do you draw the conclusion that the amount spent on education is falling by 24 percent and, in addition, the number of high school seats is falling; this suggests a very vivid imagination, my honourable fellow Member. But I could say, in the area of higher education, that the additional resources are worth HUF 7 billion, I could say the new large support package for research and development and innovation, of which HUF 70 billion is available from the budget, and another 100 billion will be read out from the allocation of EU funds. This is HUF 170 billion for the most high-tech research, the development of the most innovative economic sectors and university research directions. Besides? I told you today, did other people tell you? the first step of the social career introduced this year includes an additional HUF 12 billion, and in the case of social services and child protection services, there are also serious billions more in this budget. So I trust that, if it does not win your support, but as the electorate has approved our previous four years of similar political action with a unanimous decision, I trust that they will meet with their intentions, so that as many people in Hungary can live on work and as few people in the social care system have to live on aid. Thank you very much. [[Előd Novak: Is everything all right out in the square? Doesn't that deserve a word? ? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-82	There are now two-minute comments, which means I give the floor to Mr István Tukacs.
u2014-11-21-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond to my fellow Member Firtl's comment on two things, both in tax matters and in health. In tax matters, because we fully agree, my fellow Member, that we must pay taxes so that we can pay public services, but you agree with me that a tax system cannot be one that, by serving lobbyist interests, tries to push grocery stores out of the market, which is a tool of punishment, such as advertising tax, which is inconsistent as a public health product fee, because it now taxes soap and shampoo along with chips and cola. There can be no anti-modernisation tax system. This semi-absorbed Internet tax suggests that this was not entirely in order for the pro-government majority to think about modernisation. Finally, it cannot be inconsistent with a tax system, because when you say that you have to take it from where more income is generated and that it is used, let's say, in the case of companies, you consistently deny that in the personal income tax system there should be no distinction between wealthy and poor and rich. And to say a kind sentence to my fellow Member of Rétvári, I should have praised the Members of Parliament when, in the tax dispute, two of you, write and tell me, were sitting here, their secretary of state and a fellow Member who was patient enough to do so. [[Forebod Novak: How long will Bence of Retvári stay here today? You should be leaving soon.]] Finally, in the case of stadiums, I would like to say that it is a matter of taste, and I do not like that there is a long table of stadium renovations, but my fellow Member, it does not make me, my child, or my grandson healthier, that in these stadiums there are people playing football with 7-8 foreign legions. This would require a different approach to health policy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-21-84	I now give the floor to Congressman Alpár Gyopáros for two minutes.
u2014-11-21-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Schmuck stepped into her speech and hit the large business sector of the employer in the market, and she hit the public work programme. I am not obliged to defend the Audi investment, the Audi and the Audi government support, I do not know exactly what article you referred to, but let me add that the Audi is, after all, the Western Transdanubia and one of the country's most important employers of large companies, which primarily provides skilled workers. It pays decent wages, ensures the existence of thousands, tens of thousands of families, directly and indirectly employs 30,000 people. I had to tell you this because, unfortunately, the LMP faction is not the first time that Audi has done its job. The other is the community service program. I have already said before in several speeches that I am obliged to repeat myself that there is a demand for a public work programme, and that not only the government and the national economy need it, and not only the municipalities need it, but also those involved in the public work programme. Are those participating in the public works programme looking for work opportunities themselves instead of taking on aids; are those participating in the public works programme typically doing useful activities; are those participating in the public works programme often performing productive activities? They grow vegetables, fruit? , not only perform mandatory municipal tasks, but also assume a quasi-market role in conjunction with local authorities, and the participants in the public works programme are also involved in the processing market at the time. There is therefore a need for a public work programme and a need for additional support for the public work programme in the 2015 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-86	We will now return to the pre-notified speakers, which means I give the floor to Ms Ágnes Molnár.
u2014-11-21-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Although the country's budget is for one year, I do not think that, in order to get to know the processes, we should be able to avoid the activities of previous governments and the effects that result from the debate on the 2015 budget bill. [[Sándor Burány: You've been ruling for five years, Ági!]] We cannot go without saying that in the years before 2010, the irresponsible management of former socialist governments has also caused serious health damage. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Allow me to provide some facts in support of this. Balance of the Health Insurance Fund between 2002 and 2010? With the exception of two years? It was negative, and for three consecutive years the deficit exceeded HUF 300 billion. The lack of a full health fund in the 2002-2006 years amounted to HUF 1226 billion, which is nearly HUF 2000 billion at today's prices. This shocking figure represents HUF 45 million per hour, and it is also, my fellow Members, that the deficit thus accumulated is higher than the total one-year Hungarian health budget. Due to irresponsible management, the general government deficit-to-GDP ratio has fallen to a historic low in 2006 and reached 9.4 percent; this is an unimaginably high figure. After accession to the European Union, however, left-wing governments have failed to meet the 3 percent deficit target in Maastricht in any year, but the Orbán government has succeeded in doing so in the third year. [[Believing Dezső: Talk about 2014-15!]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Another important addition to this is the Socialist approach of the time: the 2002 wage increase, which did not have the collateral, has contributed to the huge deficit, so this was, in fact, the election victory purchased for money. No misunderstanding, the wage increase was necessary, but it should not have been done on credit, but on the basis of real resources, as it has been in the past four years. Thanks to the responsible management of the current government, the lack of a health insurance fund has been reduced step by step and gradually. The deficit was reduced from HUF 149 billion in 2009 and then from HUF 92 billion in 2010 to almost zero in 2013, and even this year, according to the end of September figures, the balance is already showing a surplus. In addition, we managed to achieve this by raising nearly 100,000 employees' wages in health care in several stages, introducing the residency scholarship system, stabilising the supply of medicines, laying the foundations of the public health system, building 22 new rescue stations, and continuing to modernise another 60, putting 341 new ambulances into work, launching improvements worth HUF 300 billion, making consolidation in hospitals in several circles, and raising funding to the basic supply next year by 30 percent more money compared to 2010. [[15.00]] The government is continuing to strengthen health care, and the sector will have more money next year. A HUF 10 billion surplus is shown in the draft budget next year, there is a surplus to improve, among other things, the situation of the rescue and to cover expenditure on new residency grants. At the time of the Orbán government, we spend nearly 20 percent more on health care today than in 2010. There are 25 percent more money for protective services, 30 percent more for home care, 31 percent more for rescue, 13 percent more for clinics and hospitals. We will continue and finish the huge development of more than HUF 300 billion in the form of 400 projects in our institutions. The 2015 budget will continue to ensure the continuation of work started in 2010. As a result, we will be able to continue a health transformation based on public health considerations, which will strengthen basic care in 2015 and then in 2016, which will make the laying and outpatient institutions sustainable, which will allow for the introduction of career models, which will result in the retention and estimation of skilled labour, which is the basis for the functioning of the healthcare system. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-21-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the proper speeches. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Much has been said in the previous speech and in the previous part of the pro-government part, but this is a budget that has been preceded by an entire government cycle on your part, so I think it is not elegant to point back to the period before 10, but it is possible to draw serious conclusions about the period since 2010, as the lag has increased compared to the countries of the region. The improvement of the balance that they talk about a lot is only apparent, since the balance has not actually improved as much as they could have achieved by nationalising and confiscating private pension savings. Let's not forget, the 3000 billion forints of savings on your part meant confiscation, about 10 percent of GDP, you could say. I think this should be seen on public debt. It doesn't look like the government's going to be at the same place in this regard. Obviously, the deficit, which is now within 3 percent of these years, is this partly due to this kind of maintenance for the future? Do a few of our age people understand that? It's gone. That kind of pension reserve, that kind of system is gone, and you can't count on it for today's 30s and 40s. In general, poverty has increased, social differences have increased, more than 4 million living below the minimum living. The statement of our former faction, and we say this in several places, on the basis of this budget, is expected to be close to 5 million people living below the minimum living standards in the country. Obviously, the differences continue to increase. The employment situation shows virtually minimal improvements, which it shows to a large extent thanks to public employment, the public work programme. Obviously, there are areas where this means a lot to people, but it cannot be defined as a final goal, because they will have to find a place in the primary labour market. The investment climate is getting worse, capital is flowing out of the country. The forint was weakened, this was also an important issue with regard to the previous item on the agenda, as well as with regard to foreign exchange lenders. We often hear a prognosis about EU funds. This is where we say that we have less real resources. There are several reasons for this, obviously there was no inflation this year, but it was in the previous years, and the forint has deteriorated significantly, which obviously means that, although part of the increase in resources can be shown in forints, the resources received from the European Union have not actually increased in real terms, on the contrary. So we see a lot of austerity and social conflict in the budget, and all of this is accompanied by a political climate when the Orbán government is isolated, and in many respects there is a suspicion of corruption, so there are significant risks in this budget. This has been said by the Fiscal Council. Obviously, the international economy can deteriorate, and we are hearing worse news; you are linking the budget to a very optimistic version. They are very optimistic about the influx of EU funds. In this respect, too, we, the Fiscal Council, did not make any question marks. The tax revenues linked to consumption would be greatly increased by you. We can see that there are question marks in this, too. The amounts allocated to social expenditure in this budget are gradually being reduced, while a number of tax increases accompany the budget. This will take thousands of forints a month out of the pockets of the families. There were only a few items, because there was an Internet tax, and they eventually backed down in connection with the enormous mass pressure and public uproar, but I have to talk about increasing the tax burden on the cafeteria. Here's the soap tax; regarding the extension of the public health product fee, anomalies have already been mentioned before me. But I could also mention the detergent tax, or what you voted for this week, and obviously discriminatory to many, this is an increase in the food inspection fee, which also represents an increase in food prices. Well, there's not much to explain why this isn't going to cause an increase, even if you've tried it, and by the way, obviously, the proceeds are not being spent on expanding supervision, making it more effective, but only on a very small part. In fact, this item is largely integrated into the budget. I would like to go back a little bit to the question of foreign exchange lenders, as it seems that the MNB showed a significant exchange rate gain in 2014, but the budget does not benefit from it. There would be many ways to do that, obviously you could make a dividend payment. Here we can talk about 400 billion. This is interesting, I think, and it has also been mentioned at the previous item on the agenda, because this could be the order of magnitude, since the MNB was already mentioned and the previous item on foreign exchange lending was on the agenda, which could be included by the state in improving the exchange rate and improving the position of foreign exchange lenders. At the end of the agenda item, we have not been denied the conclusion that the current form of forintation of the three of the state, banks and debtors will also impose on the debtors the burden of repaying foreign currency loans. Then talk to citizens, see how their capitalfewer, say, after a loan paid 7-8 years ago, will look like capital debt itself, because a lot of people, the majority, will owe him more than he took out loans, say, in the period 2007-2008. Here would be an opportunity to manage their problems in the budget to a large extent. They don't. I think it's incredibly irresponsible. They lied to people, that's not what they were promised before the election. Family and social support will fall significantly, many have already talked about this, with some HUF 68 billion. Unemployment benefits are cut short. All over Europe, governments have launched processes to respond to the crisis in order to keep people in the circle where they can maintain themselves properly. You're not doing that, you're pursuing a unorthodox policy, not only are you pushing them into the trench, but you're even kicking a big one after them. I think this is unacceptable; as well as a 4% reduction in family allowances and child benefits. No matter how we talk about it, and obviously we can debate the budget for days, we see it very differently. Social differences and scissors open in this way. This is always tragic in the social groups where they are most in need, and geographically in the country where there are more people in need. [[15.10]] I am a Member of East Hungary, so I will always emphasise these, and I will always tell you if I see these things differently. I'm doing this for the good of the people. So much in outline, obviously, I think they're going to react, and we're going to have another debate about it. However, let me mention a few items that I still miss from the budget, as I am an individual representative in Miskolc and five settlements in Sajóbábony, Parasnya, Radostyán, Varbón and Sajólászlófalva. The fate of this region is important to me, and I don't really see any individual items that would improve the situation of the people living here or generate improvements. You can tell me that this is not the place for lobbying, but for EU funds, it should not be mentioned here, but it is always used to include these items from year to year. We are well aware that many of the reserves are also subject to such individual development and support. I have to mention the rehabilitation of the historical Avas as an important goal, the renovation of the lookout tower in Avas for years, the renovation of the inner roads in Miskolc, as the roads there are in a deplorable state, the construction of the well-spoken family-friendly sidewalk network, the renovation of the Herman Otto Memorial Park, the continuation of the rehabilitation of condominiums and panel buildings. There are very serious delays in this, and the last cycle has passed with the bulk of its failure to move forward. I would also like to highlight the security of wealth here. The problem that we put on the Parliament's table several times has not been dealt with. Several local problems require the consolidation of major housing cooperatives. There's a mass of dysfunctional housing associations in Miskolc, where the power has been turned off, there's no elevator or lighting in the stairwells. This is also unsustainable from the point of view of public safety. Developing Miskolctapolca: Today there is a one-legged investment, this cannot be held. Additional resources are needed, as is the rehabilitation of Hotel Avas. Obviously, it is also necessary for the development of the nearby lake in Varbo and for the renovation of the general medical practice in Parasnya, as well as for the development of other settlements. I have sent you amendments in these matters, along with my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr. They are all targets that can make this budget a little better, which, in general, is unacceptable, but I think that with such specific resources and grants, they can make a very small improvement in the situation. I urge you to support these proposals for the benefit of the people who live there. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-21-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the speeches. Mr Sándor Kovács is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let us have a word about the pension fund, the chapter on the very important social dimension of the 2015 budget year. For the government, pensioners not only represent expenditure, but also a reserve of resources that we can expect and count on later, either in training or in the mentoring programme, but also in the European Union. One of my 75-year-old friends said he wanted to take advantage of it, because while his brain is moving, he thinks he's young. I think we need to look at the retirement society with that eye. Therefore, the 2015 Budget Pension Insurance Fund is capable of demonstrating the basic objectives of the compulsory social security pension scheme, the preservation of the value-proofing of pension benefits and the conditions for the functioning of the pension system. The pension fund's budget shall present the income and expenditure of the compulsory social security pension scheme as specified in the legislation in force. The revenue side includes operating revenues in addition to payments from contributions, social contributions tax and other sources to finance benefits. The side of pension expenditure is covered by payments relating to the operation of other related institutions, as well as institutions belonging to compulsory pension insurance schemes and pension insurance organisations. The evolution of the revenue side is essentially determined by the planned increase in gross earnings by 4.8 per cent for 2015, the majority of the revenue, together with 99 per cent of the pension contributions paid by insured persons and the employment payments of the social contribution tax. 99.4 percent of the total expenditure will be paid for retirement expenses in 2015. This appropriation is intended to cover the 1.8% increase in pensions to be implemented in January and the increase in pensions is equal to the planned increase in the consumer price index in accordance with the legal requirements. The preservation of the real value of pensions is therefore ensured. Revenues, as I mentioned: 99 percent of pensions are the pension fund's part of the social contribution from the National Tax and Customs Office and the amount of individual pension contributions paid by insured persons. The amount paid by the employer is HUF 2046,953 bn and the amount paid by insured persons is HUF 948 bn 894 mn. Other contributions amount to HUF 12 billion 421.9 million in revenue. Within these amounts, allow me to highlight the public space after simplified employment, as I am also from Eastern Hungary, and it is very important that such simplified employment, which represents various occasional jobs, is the 2010 LXXV. Law 8. According to Section 2 of the Act, according to which the employee is HUF 500 per calendar day of employment for agricultural and tourism seasonal work and HUF 1 000 for occasional work in the film industry? Although this is not typical in the east, I would mention it costs an amount of 3 thousand forints. Late payments in HUF 11.965 billion, other revenues in HUF 2.5 billion, asset management managed by MVM 1.5 million is it based on paragraph 1 of this Article, according to which the employee is HUF 500 per calendar day of employment in the case of agricultural and tourism seasonal work and HUF 1 000 in the case of occasional work in the film industry? Although this is not typical in the east, I would mention it costs an amount of 3 thousand forints. Late payments in HUF 11.965 billion, other revenues in HUF 2.5 billion, asset management managed by MVM 1.5 million (Sic!) In HUF, the contributions made by the budgetary bodies are HUF 1.8 billion in the incomes of the pension fund. In 2015 expenditure, as I said earlier, 99 percent of the payments are pensions. For an old-age pension, HUF 2440 billion HUF 510 million, HUF 381 billion for a family pension, HUF 500 million for a lump sum equity payment, HUF 185 billion for a service-dependent pension, HUF 208 million for a total of HUF 3007 billion for pensions, HUF 6.7 billion for other expenses, with only HUF 4.5 billion for postage. The expenditure part for asset management is HUF 29.3 billion. The budget shall be based on the planning of the operational budget for the budgetary bodies falling within the heading of the Pension Insurance Fund under Article 1381/2014. CHAPTER VII The surplus forecast for the reduced base by blocking of HUF 50,2 million in the Government Decision of 17 October 2009 is not included in the budget proposal. Allow me to mention at the end a number of multi-annual projects: an EKOP programme, which is a very important investment in the data management and data reconciliation process, another EKOP programme that develops the customer process of own-account pension contributions management, the development of a Hungarian microsimulation pension model based on administrative data. This all means what we used to mean by it, that the government has spent more time on the roads leading to the implementation of the individual account, and that it also considers the continuation of these applications. [[Dr. László Kács: I was just told there wouldn't be! At a press conference, they announced they wouldn't.]] In conclusion, I think that the 2015 appropriations for retirement pensions cover the 1.8 per cent pension increase to be implemented in January, the rate of pension increase is the same as the planned increase in the consumer price index in line with the legal requirements, so the preservation of the real value of pensions is ensured. The budget submitted by the pension fund is null and void, so the planned revenue covers the expenditure incurred This will be achieved by the 2011 CXCV on public finances. It is also the government's objective to ensure that the expenditure incurred is essentially covered by the contributions of insured persons and employers. In 2015, therefore, no central budgetary contribution is required to maintain the pension fund's balance. I'd be honored to thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2014-11-21-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Allow me, as Chairman of the Parliament's Population Sub-Committee, to point out that family support is not increasing at all, and in most cases is actually decreasing. What they talk about most is a doubling of the tax relief for the second child, which Jobbik proposed already in 2010. Now you have once again swept away the fact that this will be introduced next year, and then not 10 thousand forints, but double the cost of 20,000 forints per child. It's been swept off, and it's only from 2016, in small steps? In fact, four years of waiting? It will finally come true, when we know very well that families cannot move from one to three until the second child is born. So no matter how much they talk about it, and no matter how much it is in public media, it's just news like that, and it could happen that family support and the biggest amount of it, we know that tax breaks won't happen. Of course, there will be a symbolic tax relief after the first marriage, but if we talk about the support of families, we see that families that are already in existence will not receive more. More will be given to those who marry after this. Of course, we can call ourselves a family without a child, especially a newlywed couple, but can we not consider them as the backbone of families and a significant part of them who are finally destined for themselves as a result of this tax relief? Of course, for more than one reason, and especially for other reasons? to get married, but most of the families don't get as much as they do this year because they refuse to make the family support system inflation-seeking, like the pension system. This means that every year it is worth less than the HUF 10 000 tax reduction, or the maternity allowance, whose annual envelope is now not only being made into an inflation follower, but also being significantly reduced compared to this year. We have tabled several amendments in order to make the family support system, such as child or maternity support, a follow-up to inflation, like the pension system. In the case of child care, we will go beyond that, and we will double it there, because we know how many people do not dare to go to child care and childcare because they are afraid of losing their jobs. The support for this should therefore be stepped up. In the meantime? Should we also tell him about Béla Bisku's comfort? Communist luxury pensions will not be reduced by one forint, they will continue to receive their hundreds of thousands of HUF luxury pensions, and the pension system is generally inflation-following, while the family support system is not at all. Indeed, marriages are encouraged, although it is a little funny to say that the weddings will be more expensive if we think that alcoholic beverages are taxed, but I do not really blame this because if you want to tax something, I think it is right that alcoholic beverages are taxed. However, it is less coherent that, while, in principle, I would like to promote marriage, while, for example, we have been swept off our proposal to finally legislate the state recognition of the church wedding. Which, by the way, was an old Fidesz program before they failed the election in 2002? Is Mr. Secretary nodding? However, in the previous term, I submitted this proposal in vain, and even though you were a secretary of state, this has unfortunately been swept away. I trust that if you can't make a better suggestion, then you will submit it, even in the course of tomorrow; just take out the old one, Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V? Ask Paul Schmitt for advice on how such a thing works? And you can submit a proposal quite simply. And even without funds, they can push for an increase in the number of marriages, all the more so because from 2012, we crossed a magical line, when unfortunately, children born outside of marriage in Hungary became the majority. And it's not just a national, national strategy interest, because it's enough to talk about the sustainability of the pension system, because this system won't be sustainable? Do you know that very well? In a few decades' perspective, if we fail to change the current catastrophic demographic trends and they fail to stop population loss, as we have failed so far, let us add. So if this is not stopped, then the pension system will not be sustainable. That is why the increase in the number of marriages should indeed be encouraged. Not all matters of money, we know that very well, it is enough to look at Transcarpathia, which is the poorest region in the Carpathian Basin, but this is the only region where Hungarians do not run out, although, as I said, this is the poorest part. This shows that this is not just a question of money, or perhaps not a question of money, but yet, in the debate on a budget, we can talk about these issues in the first place. The adoption of other non-financial proposals that facilitate the aforementioned marriage, or the state recognition of church weddings, or even of better proposals for setting up family-friendly institutions, could facilitate demographic change after they have been swept off the previous table. But if we are talking about a budget bill here, I can only argue in favour of our amending proposals that would, for example, make the family support system a follower of inflation. By the way, Minister Zoltán Balog himself said at the five-year birthday conference of the Population Round Table that there are many proposals, that all his State Secretarys are ready to achieve a demographic change, that is what they set out to do, and that only the Ministry of Finance must be won. Well, thank you very much. I myself know that the competent dedicated professionals consider this important, of course, but as long as the Government, as long as you Members consider everything else to be more important, there will be no demographic change. Of course, we in the People's Welfare Committee consider it important, isn't it a coincidence that the Population Policy Sub-Committee was established? Do I thank Madam President and the members of the committee? We feel the importance of this there, but unfortunately, at parliamentary level, we cannot say that yet. I also took an oral question to the Minister, and it was called, 'Do you agree that the biggest problem of Hungarians is population loss? I asked him that, but I didn't get an answer. He didn't dare say yes, that's his biggest problem. I am very pleased that on Monday this week, Madam Secretary of State has already acknowledged that this is it, this is a great step forward, but this has not yet been declared at ministerial level. However, if we really put the task of halting population loss first, we cannot vote off our proposals for demographic change on the basis of a lack of resources. Then radical VAT cuts should be made for the articles needed to raise children. Then a state-supported home-building, rental-building and purchase programme must be established so that families can be established at home instead of fleeing abroad, while the number of annual housing constructions in Hungary is at a historic low point. Should the social card be introduced to make the family support money? Which we now have in the budget often aimlessly and aimlessly? do not sometimes translate into the needs or passions of parents that do not involve raising children, but specifically what the state intends to do. It is therefore necessary to introduce a social card. Family tax relief should be extended to a number of other taxes. We have also long demanded that lower-income workers be able to make use of this. This year we have made progress on this, on contributions, but we can also think about a number of other taxes. If, with a little empathy, the rich government also thinks about the situation of those who do not earn hundreds of thousands of forints, then it realizes that other taxes must be extended in order to benefit from this much-spoken tax relief, such as 99 thousand forints for three children. And in the case of the fourth child, it is necessary to increase the amount of the family tax allowance per child, even to a symbolic extent. The family model with four children should be appreciated and promoted. It is not necessary to treat the three and more children as some kind of ceiling, as if we could no longer discuss any new engagements over the three children. In fact, should the second child benefit be introduced in a number of areas? Like public transport, camping, catering? where today only large families are entitled to a discount. And indeed, the kindergarten care fee you have introduced should be abolished, and the number of institutions and their seats should also be increased for kindergartens. By the way, Balázs Kapitány, Deputy Director of the Institute for Population Research at the KSH, pointed out in one of his recent lectures that we can observe a contradiction in government policy. Of course, apparently they are trying to target a demographic turnaround, yet, while they are pushing for marriages, the partnership was raised in the Ptk. [[15.30]] Or he emphasized that, of course, for three years, the child was introduced and raised, but this was supplemented by a six-hour work restriction. They're increasing the number of cradle seats, but they're making it pay. And we can still list the contradictions in government measures that show that there is no well-thought-out strategy or that they do not think it is serious enough, they do not say that the biggest problem of Hungary is population loss, on which we have a lot of proposals; for example, the so-called flask baby programme, on which my fellow Member György Szilágyi may also give a personal statement, and in addition to our amendment on this, he will argue even longer. Since this is the case, this budgetary debate has been pushed into such a time frame, as opposed to any other general item on the agenda, when we should be able to speak to it without a time limit... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've been arguing about this for three days.]] I am very sorry that, in the case of the most important law of the year, the debate has been pushed into a time frame against the general rules of the house, and even our proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-94	Thank you very much. Congressman, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-21-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, I would only respond in two sentences to Mr Varga's speech and then to Mr Novak's speech. Congressman Varga had a general receipt and a special Miskolc receipt. Allow me only to answer the general question here and now. His first thought was that the decline in unemployment in Hungary was minimal. You may think it is minimal, but in this European Union you have only been smaller in the last year. Because, to a greater extent than in Hungary, employment has not increased, and in particular unemployment has not fallen much more than in Hungary. So you can underestimate the decline in unemployment in Hungary, only then you probably don't keep the other EU countries that much, because there wasn't even such a drop in unemployment. However, let us add that unemployment in Hungary has fallen from 11.1 percent to 7 percent in four years. You talked about what other people say a lot. You said that the family allowance will be reduced by 4 percent next year. Let us add that this is not the case, everyone will receive the same family allowance as they did this year. So there's nothing to reduce the family allowance. It's a rhetorical turn of events that you're going to tell me from time to time, but the laws are clear on this, and there's the same kind of family allowance for everyone next year as they were this year. Nothing's gonna fall, everyone's gonna get the same allowance next year. On the other hand, where the possibility of grants is increasing, and I would like to draw your attention to this, Mr Novák, because he mentioned the issue of housing for young people, precisely the benefit of raising homes for families, short of the new chocolate program, in which we would like young people to make use of it for HUF 4 billion in the coming years. This year it is about 700 million forints that young people take advantage of in the current discount called classical soccer. We extend the scope of use, they can use it for single children, they can use it not only to buy new but also used apartments. That is why we believe that much more people will demand this, and that this surplus will be covered here in the next year's budget. We hope that as many young people as possible will do so. I can't remember which one of you said that the number of housing constructions in Hungary is decreasing. Last time I checked, the rate of new housing construction started up 30 percent. Obviously not at the pre-crisis level, but the 30 percent increase compared to the previous year, I think, is a good growth. And if we go in this direction, we will also reach the pre-crisis period. And in family-type taxation, I think it is very important, and beyond that, it cannot be done that for families with low incomes or average incomes, with 2-3 children, gross and net incomes with 3 children now coincide, as much gross as the net for families, so they don't pay, but take home the same amount of money as their employers pay gross. You said that the fourth child should also have a family tax relief. Well, obviously there's a fourth, but our tax system's not jumping there. It is true that the first two children now have 62 500 forints, and the third one has 200,000 forints, and so it goes on with the other children. The 16 percent of this is the discount you can get. So obviously, if you have more children, you have an even greater share of your income out of the tax system. So you get an even higher discount proportional, a fourth child is equal to the third child, multiple of that than the first or second child. It is clear, however, and we will return to it in four years or three and a half years' time, because this government, which you have now committed to double the rate of tax relief for the second child in four years, is precisely so that with the big leap after the second child, third children will be born wherever they want to be. This is, of course, an opportunity, a grant from the state. We are starting from the point of view of children, and we consider it the best interest of the children, and therefore, who is having children, under what circumstances, does not consider it at all in this respect, we must give equal benefits to them everywhere. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr László Vigh. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This year's budget accounts for 2.5 percent of economic growth, which will certainly be achieved in 15 with a 2.4 percent deficit, 1.8 percent inflation and 75.4 percent public debt. I told you this line because a long time ago, when we used to say this line, they always started attacking from the Union, the IMF, and all sorts of economic researchers said that our deficit wouldn't be below 3 percent. And then they added that our economic growth will not be as much as we planned. This year, they did the same thing to us, saying that our economic growth will be between 1 and 2 percent, and what God gives us, our economic growth is more than 3 percent. At times like this, we would expect the various analysts to tell us that we are sorry, that we are sorry, that we are not right again. This is the first year when neither the opposition nor the various economic researchers are attacking this sequence. In my comment today, I would prefer to refer to the local government sphere, because the local government sphere, in which I was involved, I was mayor for 20 years, I think it is a success sector. What our settlements have developed in the last 24 years, before that, you can see the work of mayors and municipal representatives in 3177 settlements. Incredible, but in 1990, when we moved from the council system to the local government, there was a settlement in Zala county where even the drinking water was not built. Since then, the electricity grid has been rebuilt in many places, water systems have been built everywhere, gas systems. What may still be a deficiency, and it is very important that we replace it, we need to build a sewage system in more settlements. There are white spots. What is also worthy of development, and it is important to pay attention to it, there have been huge rains in my narrower country, Zala County, in September-October, and the cleaning of the Szévíz-Principal Channel, I think it is important that you need support in the next cycle. It is very difficult to even the settlements, as we have agreed to reduce the differences. My constituency includes the smallest settlement in the country called Iborfia. This settlement has 13 people. The largest of our settlements is Zalaegerszeg, which has 60,000 inhabitants, and if you take Budapest, it is 1.7-1.8 million, and if you want to settle these, there is no easy business. By the way, the government has done something that has not been the case in the last 24 years, it has given HUF 1300 billion for debt settlement, the municipalities have accumulated 1.3 billion in their loan accounts on their unpaid transport debts. I think that this is a huge burden that has left the municipalities, and that the municipalities that have not been indebted to them have received a little reward money. What I see in my constituency these days is that a lot of roads and buildings are being renovated with these funds. I think it went for a good purpose when the government told us to take everything that is the government's debt. I think that the budget treats the kindergarten within the municipal system fairly, the kindergarten preparation that serves to prepare for school. Smart thinking, I think, is to support children from the age of three going to kindergarten. It is also, I think, to be supportive of not getting a family allowance for someone who doesn't send their child to kindergarten. [[15.40]] It is said that the life of the child or the adult will be decided between the ages of 3 and 7; I think this is a very important area. Another important area is basic education. Many debates preceded nationalization. When the nationalization started, I got a call from a mayor on the phone, and he told me why we were taking the school away from his settlement, because he just renovated it. I asked him if he was actually going to be taken, or maybe he'd stay there. He said it was true, but it wasn't theirs. I told him if he renovated it, that his light, his ornament, that building, that's where the local kids go, that's where the local teachers teach. All the government did was take out the debate that lasted until midnight, until dawn, when the settlements came together, with six or seven or eight maintenance staff, and they argued about how much to add to a school normative, because it seemed that in the end we had received 40 million for a school with a budget of 100 million, so we had to add 60 million to our lack of resources. I think that was a very good idea. By the way, in my settlement, where I live, for example, what we did in the socialist era was create a foundational school system with individuals in order to save primary schools. I'd like to point out that we're running five schools today, and it's working very well. It is true that there are not 38 and 40 children in one class, but there are only 10 to 15 people in all, and it is unbelievable how good teaching is going on in these schools. The other subject I would like to discuss quickly is the joint municipal office. With regard to the common municipal offices, the opposition said that the settlements are now over. There were about 2,000 of us, and what I see in Zala County and the country is that it has not decided the fate of the settlements in a negative sense. There was a rumor that some settlements were closing; I had not seen one such settlement that would have closed, and in a negative sense bad things would have started. I think the process we started back then is worthy of continuation. I would also like to note here that the general medical service, which is also a very important area, also receives 10 billion HUF more. And I will return to the school with a thought: 50 billion more in the budget this year for KLIK and 38 billion forints for teachers for the wage increase. Mr. Secretary of State Sándor Czomba, I believe you said here in Parliament at the beginning of the week that it was the first time that employment was over 4 million in 11 months, instead of 3.7 million people? When we took over the helm in 2010? 4.2 million people work, that's 500,000 more. That's a huge number and a huge amount of people we could get to work with. You were in my constituency? You don't belong there now? a small town, Pacsa, where we created a chicken factory, currently employs 160-170 people in the chicken factory. The Executive Director has asked us to make a 30-person extension. Last week I called our LEADER community, which includes 31 settlements, and I asked them to help us fill up this 30-person population. The mayors promised to take the 2-3 people from the 30 settlements who do not work, not in public work; there is little hope that if we bring about 100 people to that workplace, we can increase the number of employees of the company by 30. I told you this because when we talked about the amount of $3.7 million instead of $4.2 million, I think it's a huge achievement, not my performance, not the government's, not the Fidesz-KDNP's, but the entire country's. I think it should be appreciated that there is an incredible amount of work to be done by 4.2 million people today. And here I would like to turn to our other topic, public employment, which gets a lot of hurt and a lot of criticism from the opposition side, and after a review, when we go out to the corridor, I ask the congressman who has spoken to you about how many public workers you have and how many start-workers you have. And that's when they say I don't have a start-worker and a community worker, but I know because I heard it. All I want to say is that I've been working on Start and Public Works for 20 years, and I've been mayor ever since, and I need to highlight their work. I can't believe how much they work in our small settlements, how many buildings they renovate. Based on my settlement, they produce peppers, tomatoes, potatoes for the local cuisine, it's unbelievable how clean they keep our villages, our settlements, our cities. It is a very important activity that they are doing, and I think they should be valued, and it is very important that we continue with this programme. I used to say that every settlement is developing as the mayor and the body of representatives can make the most of the opportunity. I see that there are one or two settlements that find separate possibilities; I think that this is a higher level of operation if you can get something out of your settlement that is not in it, and yet local creativity finds the thing that can make a settlement even bigger. I was in Parliament, it was five or six years ago, and I got a phone call to see if I could help the next day, the roof of a house burned down in one of my little villages. It was Tuesday morning, I went to the settlement, and I saw that the roof was burned down, and a father was crying in the yard with two little children, and the mother was lying in the house. I asked how I could help, and they told me to help them start construction today because they said Thursday rain. We managed to change the technical things, the carpenters started to build the roof, we managed to get around 2400 tiles as a gift, and Thursday the roof stood on the house, standing on the tiles. I told you this because the truth is, I think we wake up every morning because we work to make people, families, citizens, businesses, settlements better. [[A statement from Jobbik: Was it raining?]] Today, we see a lot of people working on what they can do to make this country as bad as possible. I think that this should not be what the opposition should be working on, that should not be what the Members should be working on, but that there should be as much action as possible in the given settlement, in the given constituency. And let me brag about the fact that in the centre of my constituency, Zalaegerszeg, we are now working on building a new heart centre, working on a large company starting a 500-person job creation investment. That is why it is worth getting up every day and that is why we should work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. ? Lajos Korózs applauds loudly.]]
u2014-11-21-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Szél is next. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself could tell you colorful stories about my visits to rural Hungary, I even visited Zala County, where I examined the mines of the Orbán family, how they operate in Natura 2000, but unfortunately, the LMP Group does not have the time to illustrate with so many colorful images the legislative proposals that you have submitted here and which we are trying to amend. I fully agree with my fellow Member, László Vigh, on one thing: we have to get up here every morning as a representative to serve the good of the country, but I do not like to stress this because it is natural for us, but if Fidesz has to say so much, then obviously in the fairly large group of Fidesz this can be some sort of cohesion exercise, but I think that what is natural does not necessarily have to be said too much about it. I am truly sorry that Secretary of State Bence Rétvári is no longer here, because I really wanted to start where we left off during our earlier discussion, but I am pleased to see that Secretary of State Czibere is here with us, and I think he too will be able to reflect on the points that I would like to highlight here in my speech today. I would like to start by saying that yesterday Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, misunderstood us very much, misunderstood me, and that he may also misunderstand this whole topic a little bit, because when we talk about the need to promote business in this country, we also think about women with small children who are not employees, who are having a child, and then they want to start a business. Now, you see, Mr. Secretary, these women, these women, they have a problem that they have to pay the entire social security bill right away, even though they can't do their business for 8-10-12 hours, because they have little children. Possibly Other Politics has been standing up for years to have an appropriate social security contribution to be introduced gradually, so that as the years pass, only 25 percent of the first year, then 50, 75, and then all of it has to be paid in order to gradually allow the woman who plans the business to return to her business, and do not choke the whole thing by paying the total social security at zero point of time. [[15.50]] This is absolutely an example of a life. As a female politician, I think it's a little easier to talk to women, I've been approached by women in their profession, and they said it would be good to achieve this, because it's a serious problem for them to be at home with their children, start a business, but they can't produce social security. So I think that there must be a compromise in this Parliament, that women's affairs and family affairs are more important than anything else, because we have neglected women in the last 25 years to say just a few decades. I think that this would be a measure that Fidesz-KDNP could wholeheartedly support and everyone else in this Parliament, because we think that this is an important thing that I think everyone can support. Are we going to make the proposal accordingly? Did we hang up already? in the current budget, too. Let me also point out that if we are talking about female employment, it should not be an obvious fact that we are talking about only employed women. Are you rehearsing? Just to dissect the subject a little bit? to provide a solution to women who are employees and can afford to work part-time. However, there is a group of women who need employment but flexible work because they do not live off part - time wages. And there is a third group of women who want to work as an entrepreneur, such as a beautician and want to continue their profession after having children. I ask you to look at this budget with such an eye over the next period that you do not forget these two important groups, which I would like to inspire you to do. I would also like to say a few words about a social summer meal, because I think that in a situation like this...? Yesterday, there was a report that was written in this country by scientists, professionals, and it became clear to the world that almost half of children under the age of 7 live in poverty in Hungary. So, what I think is that you can't leave with one word. My fellow Member, Mr Font, said yesterday that I am overdramatizing the situation here in the field of poverty. I don't think you're going to face the situation. You do not face the fact that in Hungary child poverty is skyrocketing, we are the hosts of countries such as Romania and Bulgaria. And I think you should also see that Secretary of State Czibere knows exactly, because he is an expert on this subject, that all the relevant indicators of deprivation have increased. I have posted quite a lot with you, I know your position, but I would like to ask you to take into account that you still have a lot of debt towards Hungarian children. When summer comes, problems begin. You are very proud that, if I count correctly, you have added HUF 360 million to the summer social food budget, which is now HUF 3 billion. But since many governments, we've been watching a movie in this country, say, 550 thousand children in need, one fifth of whom get a summer social meal. That means four fifths don't get one. And I don't think it's right for you to push this with HUF 360 million, but I do? And did we put it on your desk in a proposal to amend it? that we would have to push this amount by 5 billion forints, so that no child would starve in Hungary in the summer. I admit that there's progress in giving them hot food at least once as long as it's school time. Yeah, but what's summer? What happens in the summer when four fifths of these kids fall out of the system? And I would like to stress that this is on the one hand a question of money, but there is something here that is not a question of money, how much the municipalities can fulfil the conditions. I've been doing a lot of work on this subject, and then Mr. Secretary of State Czibere hasn't been around, so be aware, please, of the proposals that I've put down, I think that these are proposals that are professional and? Is that what I think? They must also enjoy a human consensus. I don't think you can afford to go on like this. 360 million forints is not enough, 5 billion forints is required. For example, Viktor Orbán could finance this, because what he asked him to move to the Castle is exactly that. Orbán, do not move to the Castle, stay where you are, please give this money to the needy children to receive a bowl of warm food in the summer. [[Lajos Korózs: Yay! ? Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Let this be Prime Minister's offer for the cause. We'll take it. I'd like to bring in one more subject, two, to be exact. I also look at Mr Secretary of State, because you know exactly what the situation is in the social sector. And here again, I have to bring Mr. Prime Minister up to speed, because I was very shocked at his statement on Monday. In response to a question on Monday, Prime Minister said that if you remember correctly, the first round of negotiations with the social sector had begun. This is exactly what Prime Minister should be aware of, because they are the people, the people working in the social sector, who are the worst paid employees in the national economy. And I'd like to say again that while we're sitting here working, these people are looking after our kids, these people are looking after our elders. And these people are making 70-80,000 forints, and their wages haven't increased since 2008, and you are? Excuse me? They're constantly being bullied, and there's simply one promise on the table to raise something next year, but no one believes you, because simply what you've put on the table so far has been shameful. These people were constantly being bullied. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] And let me point out, Mr Secretary, that this was included in the 2010 Fidesz programme. Remind him that they won a few choices... [[In response to an intervention:]] ? yes [[Interview from Fidesz: How many?]] And I think it's time you kept your promise. Start with social workers, start with the people who care for the elderly, the sick, the children. I would add that these people are asking very little. 30 billion would do the trick. From what I see, there are 10 billion, so we should add 20 billion. Now, should I tell you that this is what should be dealt with rather than the expansion of Paks, for which 28 billion was planned? Look, what we put on the table, the amendment package, it's all covered in the budget. A total of about 500 amendments, one fifth of which was placed on the table, i.e. 80 by the LMP faction, were submitted. We've found cover for everything. I think we have the money here, but you're putting it in the wrong place. And these people don't ask for much, they only ask for what health workers have received. They want a very small raise, give it to them. I would add that it's not enough because you need a career model. Isn't that a good thing? To put it mildly? That a career starter earns the same amount as he's been on the field for decades. And all this, I'm telling you, 70-80 thousand forints, 84 400 forints. So that's the kind of money we're talking about, it's not right. Our faction is of the opinion that we need an immediate and real wage increase here, not a wage supplement, and we need to infiltrate the lease. We don't have to patch it up. We need a decent, real wage increase, Mr. Secretary of State. And I would like to add one more subject to what has been said here, because I think it is also a big debt of Fidesz-KDNP. You know, in this country, we have disabled fellow humans, and we also have disabled fellow workers. You have committed a very serious failure, with the end of the national disability programme in 2013 you have not taken care of it? Even though it's required by law? that a disability programme should have been placed on the table for the period 2014-20. Since then, I know that you've already sent one to social consultation, but there were generalities in it. And what's more important is the implementation plan, the action plan. What I don't know is how you stand, be kind, tell me, just because this is what we have to do in 2015. The problem is, I don't see your funding in the budget, what you're gonna do with it. We see that about HUF 8 billion is needed; if not so much, you will deny it. In any case, for OFP implementation, I have submitted an amendment to you for HUF 8 billion. I think this is one of our most important tasks. There is no order in this country until we can provide for our disabled and disabled fellow workers according to the law. You cannot afford to fail to do so. In addition, I would like to propose another amendment to your attention. They provide wage support for the employment of the disabled, but according to our calculations, this should be increased by about HUF 5 billion, which is how much you have planned for the budget. It is important to see this because it is very difficult to find work in Hungary, but it is even harder for our disabled fellow workers to find work. And it makes it especially difficult for them not to get a rehab card. This would, by the way, make their location easier. And the non-profit organisations that employ them can't afford the wages they can get, so it would be very important for you to raise the resources that you can afford. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if this is not the case, so if you reject this amendment, it will result in these people being put in an even worse situation. They've never been in a good position before. They've been in a very bad situation. I myself functioned as Chairman of a subcommittee in the previous term, where I dealt with this subject a great deal, and I think that this is also a matter that should enjoy a consensus between parties, between factions, between parliamentary groups, to move forward in this area. [[16.00]] It begins with the fact that we are complying with the laws, I would like to know how the implementation, the action plan stands, and I would like to know how you want to finance this, because it is very disturbing to see that there is a lot of funding in this budget; Viktor Orbán is moving to the Castle, building stadiums and continuing, and we are not doing enough for our most basic human duties if this is adopted. So with respect, I would like to ask Mr Czibere, State Secretary, and all the other State Secretarys and all of my fellow Members here, to take such a look at the amendments made by the LMP Group, not one of them that you could have submitted. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, like yesterday, Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the European Parliament, has made a direct statement of his intention to speak, so that today he can speak within a three-minute time frame. This time frame is not included in the timeframe of the Jobbik fraction. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the European Union. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-101	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In the previous speeches, several pro-government representatives dealt with EU funds, and with some exaggerations, there was a picture that we were practically in the canaan running with milk and honey, and I would like to nuance this picture a little with the real balance. In this year's budget, the National Strategic Reference Framework calculates an EU resource of HUF 1262 billion. I would like to say that Jobbik considers this resource to be very important, and that it is useful to use it; unfortunately, because 90 percent of our development is made from more EU funds. Unfortunately, it is a poverty certificate that we do not have our own, independent resources for purposes that do not coincide with the so-called priorities of the Union. Well, when we hear about the sources we've never seen, there's usually manipulated numbers. They add their own share and say that it comes from Brussels. In comparison, it is not the euro's amount compared to the previous cycle that we achieved, but the current rate, the current HUF 300-310. That's why I'd like to tell you facts. And let me add one more thing: as a member of the EU Commission during the previous term, I accompanied him and I must say that the government could not achieve a better position. The sad thing is that at the moment, the Union is providing what we will see here. So our net position, minus the deposit, has actually increased from 23.3 billion to 25.7 EUR 300 HUF per year from 1000 billion per year? Is that the net? 1077. But why? The Minister was very proud to say that agricultural resources increased by HUF 500 billion. It grew because we accepted the initial situation starting with 25 percent, which defined the situation of Hungarian agriculture in a way that was a sin, and now that we have reached the original, the 100 percent, it is not a glory. The cohesion envelope has minus 20 percent more than it used to be. This is a matter of fact and the EU's overall budget has fallen by 4.5 percent compared to the previous cycle. This has never been the case; 20 percent of the cohesion envelope that is important to us is because the total cohesion fund has fallen by 8.4 percent. So the majority of the European Union has expressed that the trend in the previous cycle of the so-called centre countries and peripheral countries will continue. That's the sad reality. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Czibere asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-21-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He mentioned three topics that belong to our State Secretariat. I think that I should thank you, first and foremost, for your comments on both the objectives and the commitment, but I think that we are on the same basis for some of the proposals. I think that we will ask for help not only now but also in the future, and we will look forward to the proposals, and we will consider how we can integrate them into our own proposals in all three areas. The first question was the meal of the child. Do I think it's quite a slip of numbers when we say that children who receive regular child protection benefits in Rgyk? who are really disadvantaged? Are we comparing the number to the number of children's meals, since the basic goal of eating children is not to occur? And I think it's a matter of ours? today in Hungary, that in any family a child is starving. I think that we need to have a common ground. So the number of 530,000 is not valid in this case, because it is the number of children with Rgyk, and not the number of children who are somehow involved in starving, let's say, in the last month they have been starving, the statistics estimate this to be a few tens of thousands. Therefore, I think that we should basically aim at extending the range of children we can involve in the summer meal, which, in turn, affects 124 to 125 thousand children in principle, in the following year, and that is exactly what the budget for this is growing by 25 percent. We are also working on how to involve more municipalities in next year's tender, the tender for municipalities. We also perceive this stay from the municipalities. We have carried out a survey on why, for what reasons, local governments see limitations. We will manage these, we will ask back to municipalities that are obviously in a disadvantaged area. Obviously, there are a lot of disadvantaged children in that settlement, and we're going to ask why you don't apply, why you didn't apply last year, and we're going to process these answers, these reactions, and we're going to try to put out a proposal so that as many municipalities as possible can participate. We will strengthen the focus of this programme and, as a result, I think that thousands of other children can join the programme. I also share what you said that we have plenty of debt to children, because there is no stopping here. So in the fact that in the school year and in the summer meal, the resources will increase significantly in the following year? one of the 25 percent, the summer children's meals and 5.5 billion during the school year, can be used for the discount? I think it's a very important achievement. But we can't stop, we have to keep thinking, because it's weekends when the institutions are closed. I think that, in the spring of next year, we need to develop a policy that will also give us an opportunity for those other days that are not covered in these two systems. I welcome all proposals to this end. The second question is the question of careers and wage increases. I think we're back on the same page. Similarly, the government is fully aware of the fact that today the most underpaid sector in the national economy is working in the social, child welfare and child protection sectors. Do I think the government appreciates and appreciates you the same way? As we've heard from Prime Minister here? the work of workers in the sector. I think we have a debt here too, it's perfectly natural, but I think that this government has also done so in this area. This year's pay gap, mentioned by you, was an important result, and it was also an important result of the launch of career groups on 20 January, which laid down their first drafts in the autumn, both in the area of training, recreation, the pay table and sectoral negotiations, and even in the case of sector regulation, a fifth group made proposals. So I think that they have started, and we would like these working groups, which are important forums for the dialogue in the field, to continue to operate, not only until a career is introduced, but also after having a continuous look at each other and a constant look at each other in this conciliation process. The next step should be to put together long-term plans for the sector's capacities. As you know, and I think others know, in the social and child protection sectors, there are so-called capacity imbalances and funding imbalances. [[16.10]] Are there areas in the service sector, social and child protection sector where very hard work is done, relatively few resources are allocated, but are there parts of this sector where? I would like to say - less professional efficiency and performance. I do not call it an outright waste, but I think that we need a review of some areas of this service sector. Until we can put in place long-term guarantees to ensure that the capacity structure of the service sector is sustainable, sustainable in the long term, predictable both in terms of area and area, I think it is very difficult to say about the future. I think it is the government's responsibility to say that there is a medium-term development concept here, which therefore makes the service structure sustainable in the long term, which leads to careers and wage increases. We promise that this medium-term development plan will be completed in the coming months and that, accordingly, the next rate of wage increase will be achieved from July onwards. The third is the national disability program. The first thing I had to do when I became Secretary of State was to get this out, and it came out, and now the action plan is ready. All proposals are welcome and will be adopted. It's a joint matter of raising disability, I think, and putting the issue of people with disabilities first. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In a budgetary debate, there are many times when the points of the meeting define the position, but I think that, in addition to the criticism of opposition, sometimes the recognition has moved into our direction, even under the grass. [[Dr. László Kács: You must have misunderstood something.]] Tamás Harangozó explained in his comment that the transport of the police was included in the budget. Let us remember what the budget debate was about between 2002 and 2010: how we pay the police their debt of HUF 1-2 billion. Tamás Harangozó mentioned the extra hours to save on this budget. Let us recall in 2002-2010 that the firefighters' allowance had to be paid in 2010 to the current Fidesz government, also in the amount of billions. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] Remember the career models. Several of my fellow Members have discussed this. Every segment of the media between 2002 and 10 was that it was not possible to call the police after half a month because it ran out of fuel. Sebestyén Craftsman, Bernadett Wind also mentioned the career model. I think that, after proper discussions, we can discuss this with a proper budgetary background, conduct the debate, and, as with teachers, this can be done in other sectors. I also refer to László Varga, I can say that for example, at the soap tax it is 11 forints, and at a ten-dollar soap it means 50 forints. From 2002 to 10 you have doubled energy, increased district heating to double, overall I can say that this is not significant on your part. And one more second of lying. Right now, a prime minister lied, it's called Ferenc Gyurcsány, who lied in the morning and at noon and at night. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will also be followed by Mr László Szakács from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mine's the next two and a half minutes, if I understand correctly, compared to the previous one. I wouldn't respond to that right now. What is more than one forint is just one forint more than what has been, because so far it has been zero forints. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] What I would like to respond to, what Congresswoman Agnes Molnár said, is the first [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would not be interested in this speech, as it may be said in the 2006 discharge debate, but the date has been replaced, most likely, but we are now debating the adoption of the next budget after a cycle that you have run through, and it is worth fixing otherwise. What you have said about health care is very important, and it would be very good if these processes started from scratch. We're just way below zero, Congresswoman. I'll tell you how. 45,000 people are currently waiting on waiting lists for surgery, hip replacement 7326, knee replacement 8794, cataract surgery 18 401 patients, and last year's budget you agreed to reduce this by 3,000. I think this commitment is not a big commitment compared to 45,000. The community service program. We're not attacking this. I regret that my fellow Member Vigh has already left. I am glad that there are small settlements like his or my fellow Member, István Happy, who is always very proud to say it, but it no longer works in larger settlements. In the Public Works Programme, if a person works for a short period of time, it must be temporary and from there he must go back to the labour market. You cannot go back there, because the tax system that you have adopted simply reduces competitiveness, growth and the economy, and this does not create, but eliminates jobs and cannot go back to work. That's the problem with community service. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-21-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Kovács asked for a second speech from the Fidesz Group. I give the floor, Mr President, that five people from the Fidesz fraction are waiting for you to speak before TV, so I ask that you limit your own speech.
u2014-11-21-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that I would like to talk about a very important chapter, namely social spending in the chapter of the municipality. The day before yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State held a press conference on the conversion of aid. I think that it must be shown that the task of providing aid to the state and the municipalities must be clearly separated, and that the task of this government is for the municipalities with greater tax power to take part in the social policy task that needs to be given to those in need of aid in the form of aid. So to this end, the powers have also been clarified, and I think it is very important to mention the need to introduce transparent and non-abuse social services. So very briefly: some care will disappear, but at the same time it will be transformed. Let me tell you something very important: regular social assistance will be transformed. Three, let's just say a group of beneficiaries will come in instead: those who have completed the retirement age within five years, they will be eligible for a replacement allowance for employment; and there are two other groups, they cannot be employed in view of their health status, and they will not be able to manage the supervision of their children under the age of 14; they will be called to receive health and child care support. It is very important that, as I have said, these aids will be triggered by municipal aid, since the municipalities will have to respond to these crises, and they will also be able to order central resources in the absence of tax power. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Anita Heringes, from the MSZP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-21-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, in the general justification for the draft budget law, environmental protection was not mentioned, but we are not surprised at that, since we already know the government's environmental thinking. After all, he told his colleagues that there was no need to be more pope than the Pope; this was understood by many as the first economic interest? But we are not surprised that the economic interest is above all else. Therefore, we are not surprised that the word "environment" does not appear in the general justification. We'd like to give you a little help with the little things you'd have to change to get this budget back to normal and be acceptable to the people. For example, let's talk about the product fee, which was introduced in 95. Its main objective was to create financial resources to reduce environmental risks and damage prevention. In 2013, you introduced the deposit fee, the original purpose of which was to support the production of less waste. [[16.20]] In the 2015 draft budget, the revenue from the landfill contribution is HUF 9 billion and the environmental product fee is HUF 63.3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen. In this 63,3 billion, there is also soap and detergent tax, which is estimated at HUF 10 billion. This is what you will pay as soap and detergent. What is interesting is that it was originally created to support waste management tasks. Yet, revenue will spend 17.6 percent on this, which is HUF 12.7 billion. It is very sweet that 80 percent of the soap tax will be absorbed by the central budget, from which stadiums will then be built, as we can see. The poor, small-time people in the soap tax will pay for it, and they'll be able to watch the stadiums from the outside, because they won't be able to afford access. But, as we know, and have been said many times, my fellow Members, unfortunately, this is the budget for poverty that you have just submitted for 2015. Waste management has already been mentioned, that originally the landfill contribution was designed for this, but we can see that 80 percent will be spent entirely on something else, but at least taxpayers will still be able to pay for the new temporary waste public service expenditure, which we can see is 4 billion forints immediately. I have already told you several times that these non-profit self-government companies are barely able to sustain themselves, and that you have frozen the deposit fee at the 2013 level, that is not the solution, since you have not yet been able to pay. Then the fact that this amount is frozen won't change that. Perhaps we should also help these companies in the budget, so that, let's say, in small settlements, people do not have to pay this much for garbage delivery fees on the one hand, and municipal companies can also stay up, and the service provider should not have any problem with this service. It's very, very interesting, you've told me several times that the government will spend more money on the building insulation program. As we looked at the budget, it is also very, very cute, because the money is reduced from HUF 743 million to HUF 654 million. Of course, they will then refer to the fact that they will want to finance it from EU funds. This is also charming, my fellow Members, as EU funds are useful, but they refuse to tolerate the EU flag in Parliament's building and building. It is also very interesting that while between 2008 and 2010, your abusive socialist government supported the renovation of 292,723 residential units in the insulation programme, you only supported 4045 in 2011 and only 1082 in 2012. In any case, even the smallest calculations and hearsay suggest a very harsh decline. Allergic people haven't been able to transfer 1 percent of their personal income tax to you in a while. As Minister János Lázár said, what was the one percent offered in 2009? The taxpayers offered 1.1 billion, out of which you spent 642 million on someone else. We expected this from the budget, where this amount would appear. I'm guessing this is a small mistake that there isn't. Environmental NGOs. Over the past four years, the government has continuously reduced the functioning of green and environmental civil society organisations and their support for the implementation of their programmes from the public funds framework. In 2002, when the first Orbán government left, there was 1.2 billion forints a year for this, and today there is less in scale than that, despite the fact that their duties did not decrease. In 2015, the government expects a product fee of HUF 63.3 billion, as I said, of which HUF 12.7 billion will be allocated to support waste management tasks. In this case, we believe it is necessary to increase the tendering framework for environmental and civil society organisations taking over public tasks. And I just want to mention one little thing to you. The Paks stadium can be renewed, and we are very, very hopeful, and I hope, as a Paksian, that the recent news that MVM is withdrawing funding from the Paks football team is not about the fact that there is no Fidesz city leadership from now on, because that would be rather petty. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Gergely Tapolczai is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-113	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, With regard to my fellow Members in Fidesz, I will make my speech shorter. Allow me to mention three specific themes, and I have tabled an amendment to all three themes. One is the support of national advocacy organisations for people with disabilities. It is important to know that state aid has decreased by 60 percent compared to 2009. In recent years, the amount of aid has been raised to the 2009 level and 95 per cent. One of the objectives of my current amendment is to restore the level of 2009 in general. Support is given to organisations who are also members of the National Disability Council. In the meantime, however, the membership of the National Disability Council has changed. Smaller organisations have also been included that have not yet received operating aid. The other purpose of my proposal is to give them this support. Such is the support of the Aphazia Association, the Demosthenes Association, and I would also like to raise the support of an organisation that has been doing a very high level of professional work for people with disabilities and children with disabilities for decades. One is the Anna Dévény Foundation, which cures children with non-organic diseases with 80% effectiveness. The other is the KézenFogva Foundation, whose professional work I believe my fellow Members are familiar with. The second topic relates to the series of elementary rehabilitation of sign language interpretation services and blinds. It is planned that the planned support will be complemented by EU funding, but this implies a transitional period that will likely cause service problems. Therefore, my associated amendment aims to solve the temporary expected problems and restore them to the previous year's level and to take account of the growth of interpretation services. The additional support can no longer be paid by the services at the moment at 100%. I would also like to propose additional support in my amendment to this area. In relation to sports for disabled people: all budget support for sport has increased, but they have been placed in a different category for the purposes only. The aim of my proposal is to restore the amount planned for the sport of the disabled to this year's level, plus to include next year's world games in this, the winter deaflympics, the summer special Olympics and the summer world game of organ transplants. They will receive support, and we will also take into account the 16th Paralympic Games and the preparation for this, the participation in the qualifying competition, which should also receive increased support. I ask very much for the assistance and support of my fellow Members in this Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2014-11-21-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am in a difficult situation, as I would like to say something like this year, watching my speech in last year's budget debate. The same trends and processes can be detected in the 2015 budget, which have already emerged in recent years. I am sorry to see that these processes are primarily in a negative direction. My ambivalent feelings are strengthened even more after more than ever in 2014 Hungarian sports, but the problem is that these amounts flow to end users, athletes, in the wrong place and in the wrong system. We have repeatedly drawn attention to the untenable state that the Hungarian Olympic Committee, which has the head of several sports professional associations in its management, controls the subsidies granted to professional associations, determines the amount of sport catching up and development from this year onwards. User's checking. So we consider this to be a problem, not an ideal condition, certainly not a problem. The Secretary of State for Sports has slowly been deprived of all its powers to decide. They might as well have ended it. The marketing slogan by Fidesz, according to which sport is a strategic sector, would have sounded ridiculous in this scenario. Reading the budget lines, however, we will be aware that not only sports decisions, money distribution, but also government budget money itself have been privatised, especially sports organisations that have become leaders of Fidesz party soldiers over the past four years. We are also experiencing anomalies in relation to the development of sports facilities. It could be assumed that, at the level of the amount to be allocated to football sports facilities, the level of allocation of resources to football stadiums was determined on the basis of a number of different criteria and background studies on the ground. We could assume that the aim of a third-class football club is to create a UEFA category C stadium, which serves primarily the sport industry, while the goal of a first-class sports club offering international competition in Budapest is to create a UEFA category A stadium, which meets all the basic requirements of UEFA category A, serving all the fans, sports, media and sponsors, VIP viewers. However, this is not what the figures show, and we would like to draw attention now to the fact that the proportions have not been properly hit, it is necessary to rethink the development of sports facilities, as this may result in new shortcomings in stadium capacity in Hangman, Dunaújváros or Zalaegerszeg, while where there is a real need for, for example, support or international exploitation, they cannot organise an international event due to inadequately prepared resource insurance. We see, for example, the political background in Fölkövesd, Felcsút or Kisvárda, but we are very confident that it is not only the political lobbying force that is linked to persons that controls the money and that it is also able to meet the real needs of determining stadium development resources. We ask for the re-checking, re-thinking of the items marked in the draft budget, for the necessary resources to be clarified, because the amounts currently spent have a major impact on the possibilities of moving forward in sport. In addition, it is incomprehensible that the use of sports facilities that have recently been built or are being built has not been considered in advance planning or budget planning. Building, you know, everybody loves you. There's big money moving, who knows what direction. However, it is not enough to build something, to continuously develop it, to operate it, at a high standard, with a highly qualified team of professionals. This is the aspect that distinguishes the development of sports facilities in Hungary and Western Europe. Unfortunately, the Fidesz government, following the worst traditions of socialism, does not think about the operating difficulties of built schools, sports halls and stadiums. The maintenance of these facilities is difficult as it generates continuous losses. If we don't separate the money for their operation now, the depreciation will begin quickly. An excellent example of this process is the current Puskás Stadium. I would like to point out here that there was an anomaly at the Puskás Stadium, too, that already, in the design phase, it was almost scandalous, as the NSK concluded a 2 billion HUF design contract with Közti, they said that UEFA and FIFA standards were taken into account in any case, and now it has been so taken into account that the contract with Közti was concluded for additional design works of HUF 650 million. So they didn't ask them for the rent or they would have punished them for the bad design documentation, but they gave them another 650 million forints. So this process has begun, and many facilities have not yet been handed over. For example, next week's operation of the Spike Hall is not included in the 2015 budget, despite the fact that from the summer of 2015, a swimming pool is planned to be operated in its territory. The money will then have to be taken from other sport facilities already in a pathetic situation. This example is an excellent example of the dilettantism of the current government. I do not wish to deal with the way in which budget money is distributed now for a long time, as I could read my speech from last year, and it is much more important to point out now that the situation will be worse than it was this year, as everything is significant, so I stress that all major sports items have decreased by 10-15 percent compared to this year's appropriations. In addition, the 2015 budget does not cure the wounds in Hungarian sports that have become evident to all sports professionals in recent years. In its legislative proposals for the Jobbik Hungary Movement, the small but yet many athletes who want to play sports and the professional working in sports would make life easier, helping to maintain the success of Hungarian sports and promote sport. I ask for the assistance of my fellow Members. Looking at our amendments, one of the most important aspects is the fight against doping. No international sporting association meeting will go away without the fight against doping being put on the table. Unfortunately, we Hungarians, because of the events at the 2004 Olympics in Athens, should be particularly sensitive to this issue. This sensitivity is completely lacking in the budget. A small fraction of the nearly 100 billion in total Hungarian sports is what the Hungarian government would devote to the fight against doping next year. The HUF 165.2 million really works ridiculously in a world where drugs are becoming more sophisticated. It is important to note that doping is not only in the top sport, but also in the area of recreational sports. The fight against doping must not only affect the Olympic team, but also extend to all areas that were not at the point of focus at the moment. Our children's health is increasingly at risk through gyms, gyms, online food supplements, hormones, steroids. As a result, it is increasingly important to draw the attention of as many amateur athletes as possible to the dangers of doping and to fight anti-doping with ever more sophisticated tools. This requires an increase in budgetary support. I would ask my fellow Members to help in the fight against doping and to support our proposal. We consider it very important to draw attention to another area treated as a stepchild, the sport of people with disabilities. Here, my fellow Member has just said, and we have also tabled an amending proposal to spend HUF 39.2 million more on this area from the budget and to help disabled athletes. One of the most important decisions in recent years is that from September 2012 day-to-day physical education was introduced in Hungary in primary and secondary education institutions. We are proud, because the introduction of daily physical education was one of the main points of Jobbik's 2010 election programme. Taking into account the experience of recent years, it can be said that in most schools it is difficult to hold daily physical education classes for the first years due to lack of space and gymnasium. It is necessary to increase the number of gymnasiums and to keep daily physical education classes in decent conditions at all Hungarian schools. In addition, it is important to note that gymnasiums also generate revenue for schools, as during the afternoon and evening hours the rooms are rented by schools. Taking this into account, it is also economically beneficial to increase the number of gymnasiums. Jobbik intends to increase the gym construction program by 2.1 billion HUF in 2015. Just give me a minute, everybody, and I'm sorry, I have a cold, so I'm gonna take a break for a few seconds. [[The congressman blows his nose.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-116	I'll count on your time, Congressman. [[16.40]]
u2014-11-21-117	Thank you very much. Besides everyday physical education, there have been successful programs for over ten years. The foundation of Hungary and Hungarian sports was defined by the development programmes. Seven of our eight gold medals in London were part of the world-famous Hercules program. We believe that support for these programmes is more important than anything else, and that it is also necessary to extend the sports involved in the programme. Jobbik intends to allocate an additional HUF 231.1 million from the budget for replacement training tasks. I would ask you to look at these amendments and support these efforts by Jobbik. Now, with a sharp turn, I would like to draw your attention to another amendment, or I would like your support. This amending proposal is about the fact that we would like to be supported by assisted reproduction, IVF, with HUF 2 billion of extraordinary government measures in health sector appropriations. I don't like it when Members, let's say, bring personal matters and private examples into Parliament? Everyone has their own private business, and we have a private sphere? However, let me now set my own example of supporting this amending proposal. I've been living with my wife for over 20 years, and we have two pretty little girls. We waited more than 10 years for our first child to be born. When we first faced something that wasn't right, we went from doctor to doctor, I might add, the doctors couldn't tell if we had any problems. Neither I nor my wife had any apparent problems, they said that we were both healthy and safe to have children. This didn't work, so after a while we got into this program, and both of my little girls were born under the flask baby program, thank God, so I know from my own experience what a couple who has this problem have to experience in such an intervention. Just so you know, such an intervention costs the state about HUF 1 million, it costs HUF 1-1.2 million for such an intervention. Of course, the TB supports this until five attempts, but the support means that these couples will have to pay about 300-400,000 forints of their own strength in each of these interventions. When I first went to replace the first injection dose and was told at the pharmacy that there would be 80,000 forints, I suddenly asked if it was possible to pay with a credit card on the spot. So it's not a cheap thing, and a lot of couples who really want to have children can't participate, say, in this program, because there's no 300-400,000 forints of self-power, it's not available. We have met many married couples who have either sold their cars or bought a mortgage, and they have loaded their homes just to be able to participate in this program, and many are unable to participate in it as a result. So this is the 2 billion forints? Did I just mention that the design of the Gunnery Stadium cost 2 billion forints? I feel that this HUF 2 billion is not such a large sum compared to the budget, it could help 6-8 thousand families or married couples in a year or so to participate in this program even if they do not have money. I say that in a population policy that we can meet from the government, and it is expressed that it is necessary for as many Hungarian children as possible to be born, couples and families who want and take on these children, and even examples show that in general, whom God blesses with children within the IVF programme, they do everything in their power to make sure that child fills them in the most perfect way in his life, describes the career that is right for him or for the benefit of society, I feel that they should be helped by these families. So I would ask you to support this amendment, with HUF 2 billion, within the framework of the IVF programme, to contribute to these families so that their dream can be fulfilled and children can be raised in their lives. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2014-11-21-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that you have given the Fidesz Group five minutes of the timeframe of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group was Ms Agnes Molnár, who spoke again. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, After clarifying the general budgetary issues, let me now talk about two areas that Hungarian people, patients, meet most in their daily lives. One is medicine and the other is basic care. Over 100 million doctor-patient meetings and nearly 60 million pharmacist-patient meetings are the basis for the importance and importance of these two areas each year in the supply of medicines and basic care. The government's objective to transform and further strengthen the health care system with a public health perspective is very welcome. Today, many of my fellow Members have said that everyone is concerned about the health of their children, their own health, and they want to be responsible for the health of their families. Please, this is a great opportunity. It's time to start putting the health care system in order with a public health perspective. To begin the transformation of the public health care system, it is a key issue that we can strengthen the basics of the system and the basic supply. This will be a priority for the government in the coming years. Significant progress has already been made over the past four years, and funding has been increased in several circles, which, in addition to GPs, has affected children's doctors, school doctors, nurses and regional care dentists as well as young GPs with the practice change programme. Today, by 26 percent, and even if we look at the 2015 budget plan, there is more than 30 percent more money to finance the basic supply than in 2010. However, we are also aware that this is not enough, and we need to move on. So we need to take measures that make basic care more respected both professionally and financially than at present. In the 2015 draft budget, there is already HUF 10 billion in extra money for this purpose, and the government's intention to make more funds available later is to continue to strengthen the basic supply in 2016. It will also be a very important goal to ensure a higher level of care than currently provided by GPs with closely related public health tasks. So we expect the doctors involved in the transformation of the future to provide basic care to give their tribe, the basis for the establishment of a public health care system, and to participate actively in it. We need to attract the career as a GP, a protective woman, and to do so, we need to create better personal, material and operational conditions than at present. If we can strengthen basic care, we can relieve our hospitals, our clinics, and this will clearly benefit patients, doctors and the budget as well. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at pharmaceuticals, perhaps the most important question is what medications patients face, i.e. what the system of subsidies is. Between 2002-2010, patients' burden on the medicines supported increased significantly by HUF 60 billion by reducing individual drug support rates. [[16.50]] For example, in some high public health diseases, the fee for medicines regularly taken, such as high blood pressure, cholesterol lowerings, has doubled. In contrast, in recent years the retail pharmaceutical burden has decreased by HUF 10 billion as a result of the transformation of the drug support system. It's not a mistake, it's reduced. In addition, new medicines have been available in recent years, including cardiovascular diseases, cancer patients, viral hepatitis, multiple sclerosis. Therefore, the 2015 budget ensures the necessary balance between the system of aid for medicinal products. In 2010 the situation was characterised by an economic, professional and moral crisis. One in four pharmacies operated at a loss. The structure created by paticaliberisation was inadequate to achieve the public health objectives. From 2010, the government laid the foundations for a new pharmaceutical model. It was necessary. As a result, the supply of medicinal products to the general public is a part of health care again, liberalisation has ceased, the need principle has been applied again, decisions on the majority ownership of pharmacies have been taken, and the primary responsibility for the supply of medicinal products is the pharmacist. In addition, three very important funding elements have been published in the operation of pharmacies to ensure the strengthening of the supply of medicinal products. First of all, the budget provides a so-called generic incentive to the pharmacists of 3.6 billion forints per year, so that both patients and the financiers will be given the best priced, preferred generic medicines. Security, effectiveness and patient safety of the supply of medicinal products will be increased by the HUF 4.5 billion pharmacy service fee included in the budget. This will further strengthen the role of pharmacies as a public health meeting place and public health mobilisation. Thus, an important second funding element is the 4.5 billion pharmacy service fee, which is included in the 2015 budget. In addition, 700 million HUF is available to support the operation of small-scale pharmacies supplying one settlement alone, thereby helping the government to provide a continuous supply of medicinal products to nearly 500 municipalities. These important elements guaranteeing drug and patient safety are also provided by the 2015 budget. As a whole, the number of loss-making pharmacies decreased to one third by 2013, the sector's pre-tax results increased by more than two and a half times in 2013 compared to 2010 and the supplier's debts decreased by more than 30 percent. The supply of medicines has started out of the economic, professional and ethical crisis and is showing signs of stabilisation. The new model is more economically rational, professionally safer and ethically sensitive than the previous one. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Balázs Rákossy asked for the floor from the government. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that the member of the government may speak at any time without a time limit. But the total amount of the TV time frame is...? Why is the time of the Fidesz fraction going? Did the clock go? 8 seconds from the time of the Fidesz fraction and 1 minute 12 seconds from the time of the KDNP. Of course, you can use both of them, but I think it is only fair that you observe this timeframe, Mr Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-21-121	Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the debate on the draft budget bill, I would like to respond to the main critical comments that have been made so far in a few words. Several Members commented on the wage situation of workers in the various sectors of the national economy. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the basis of the proposed legislation, the government will continue to expand career models in the public sector in 2015. In this context, the employees of the armed and law enforcement agencies will receive a significant 30 percent wage increase from 1 July 2015, to which the budget will provide HUF 44 billion. In addition, the rise in earnings will continue as part of the teaching career model launched in 2013, with an average wage increase of 10 per cent next year. In addition, for the fourth year, there have been several increases in wages for health care workers, including nurses, doctors, specialists, residents, general practitioners, nurses and dentists. Healthcare workers were the first to have a wage increase programme launched by the government, as well as a scholarship programme to prevent the emigration of doctors and health workers, as well as to replace health shortages. As regards the social sector, from 1 January 2014, a social sector wage supplement was introduced to cover the remuneration of workers in social institutions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-122	Thank you very much. I would also ask you to delete the time frame for KDNP, because we have looked at the time agreed with the notary. An independent Member, Mr László Varju, is now taking part in his speech, at the expense of the time frame at his disposal. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, In the last two days, I have been able to whip this excellent budget proposal in a speech, and so allow me to come up with two topics that make a positive assessment of what you and your Member have proposed. I would like to point out that I am happy to support Dr. Gergely Tapolczai's multiple proposals on the issue of people with disabilities, although I do not know from which subject he wishes to draw the source, this has not yet been found, but if this is specifically about stadiums, for example, where this is possible and there is significant resources available, I would like to point out that I have the support of the Member's motion. The other equally important area is the issue of nationalities. In this respect, there have been a number of negotiations, and I have seen that all of this can lead to results, i.e. the amendments that have been made here in the past, are certainly something that must be supported. Is that what I'm saying in general? Like I said before? in itself, the entire budget cannot be supported in this form, but these two initiatives can. This is so true that we must be critical of this budget, and I must say that we need not a change of attitude, but a change of government for the whole. [[17.00]] If the government can resolve this in itself, then at least the Minister's resignation would contribute much to Hungary's 2015 budget being a real opportunity with a new proposal, providing a way for economic development and growth. I'm also saying this because my last example cannot be positive for you. In a sense, this example reaches here from a long chain to the budget, but it is very clear that their insolence is showing. This concerns gas procurement in the field of energy management. In recent years, you have developed an opportunity to put a private company, a Hungarian-owned private company, in a position to take advantage of the international gas price reduction by means of MVM Rt. with the help of a Hungarian state company. That's how it came about. Meanwhile, you want to give MVM a special allowance here in this budget. I think it's unacceptable, shocking. This is something that must be protested. In conclusion, everything you have done in this budget in this way is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-124	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, as Congressman Varju spoke, the television broadcast has ended. [[László Varju: Has it been banned?]] We will continue the debate. We are now taking the floor of a minority advocate. The spokespersons agreed with each other by dividing the 20-minute time frame for the spokespersons in 15 minutes and 5 minutes. First, I give the floor to Imre Ritter, the advocate of German nationality, who will now traditionally say the first sentences of his speech in German, but according to the rules of the resolution, it must be translated for himself. By forwarding them, I give the speaker the floor within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-125	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlassen Sie mir bitte meine Rede mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe zu beginnen. Er hat gesagt:,, Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muß zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with a quote from Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which reads: "The tolerance can only mark a temporary condition that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let me briefly explain Goethe's quote on nationality. From the perspective of acceptance, tolerance from a nationality, it's like they just tolerate, tolerate their presence. For centuries, they have added their knowledge, their work, their talents to the prosperity of the country in which they lived and whose citizens they were. If necessary, they sacrificed their lives for it. For Hungary. So acceptance is not enough. Just acceptance? It's an insult in itself. We want more. We're waiting for more. Appreciation. Our ancestors' lives provide a sufficient basis for recognition, and we are still working for it. The condition of recognition, the basis of knowledge. In the last few days in the Hungarian Parliament, we have tried to make up for 25 years of failure in this area at least partially, giving an overview of the activities, lives, difficulties and opportunities of Hungarian ethnicities and their organisations. My spoke colleagues consciously sought to make their speech truly comprehensive and credible information, and I trust that the person who listened to these speeches has come closer to becoming aware of tolerance, perhaps a recognition. Allow me to give you a brief overview of the most important areas of nationalities living in Hungary on the draft law on the central budget for 2015. National civil society organisations. I will start the review with the support of national NGOs, as they are the guardians of ethnic culture, ethnic traditions, ethnic identity. The operating and programme support of national minority NGOs was 110 million HUF in 2014, which has not increased since 2002 or 12 years ago. The valid applications submitted to the Human Resources Support Manager in 2013 and 14 show that only a fraction, some a quarter of the legitimate subsidies requested, could be judged due to a lack of resources. The 40 million HUF budget is even more limited for minority mother tongue student camps. As an example, only 15% of legitimate German applications were accepted, also due to a lack of resources. The area of individual aid. Does the ethnicity committee welcome and thank you for the increased number of ethnic communities through intergovernmental ethnicity joint committees? Croatian, Slovak, Slovenian, Serbian? receive regular support. At the same time, it is necessary to change the situation that this option does not exist systematically for the majority of nationalities in Hungary, and therefore it is necessary to provide a specific source, all the more so, as the number of national minority institutions adopted by national authorities has already increased significantly and will increase in the future. National minority self-governments. In the case of national minority self-governments, which have already been told by my provocative colleagues, which carry out very diverse and diverse tasks, the changes in public finance legislation in 2008, the further legislative changes in 2012 and the general government and accounting changeover in 2014 have continuously and permanently increased operating costs. However, support for national minority self-governments was minimal between 2008 and 2010 and, in the last four fiscal years, did not increase at all during the period of legislative changes and additional tasks. Support for local and regional minority self-governments. There was a significant change in the system of support for local and regional self-governments in 2008 by introducing a transition to task-based support. However, as a result of this, the overall operating aid rate and its amount have been frozen in practice to an impossible low amount. On average, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments is HUF 221 833 gross, corresponding to HUF 14 556 per month net. In addition, this average operating aid, the smaller national authorities, receives only a part of it, a net monthly HUF 9000. Well, they would, because they have to pay bank charges because of this mandatory bank account management. However, for all the areas listed, the problem is not only that the amount of aid has not increased in six to eight or ten or twelve years, but it is at least such a serious problem that they were deeply underfunded even at the start. Following these decades of negative, increasingly suffocating history, the draft law on the 2015 Central Budget submitted still does not contain any HUF increase, and even the amount of individual ethnicity grants was reduced by HUF 735 million compared to 2014. Many people can rightly say that this draft budget has been pushing down even more under water the Hungarian nationalities who have been increasingly tired of drowning for many years, as those who say so can, on the basis of what has been said so far, support this with real statements and objective facts. [[17.10]] However, we, the advocates of nationalities in Hungary, disagree with this statement. We think that in life, nothing is given for free, everything has to be worked for, it has to be fought. Therefore, we began to assess and compile the needs of the Hungarian nationalities in relation to the 2015 budget as early as the summer. Our proposals were sent to all the factions, professional wallets, long before the 2015 budget was submitted. We have reached a consensus-based package of amendments, which have been considered professionally sound by the wallets, which we have been promised to support by all parliamentary groups and independent Members, before the general debate on the draft budgetary law began. Thank you in advance. This can mean a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics, because of the following.1. After 25 years, the previous Parliament has ensured the parliamentary representation of Hungarian nationalities, which is why we have the opportunity to express our opinion in the Hungarian Parliament. 2. In 2013, significant progress has been made towards the expansion of cultural autonomy by extending the legal conditions and possibilities for national minority self-government reservations or ownership, and by substantially increasing the operational support of the national minority public education institutions taken over and making them normative. 3. The adoption by Parliament of the amendment proposal to be submitted to the draft central budget law in 2015 by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, agreed with the relevant specialists, all parliamentary factions and independent representatives, can at last lead to a meaningful, comprehensive improvement in the lives of Hungarian nationalities. 4. Last but not least, this decision of the new Hungarian Parliament can at the same time give weight and give credibility to the institution of ethnic advocates; it means that Hungarian politics really means the presence and role of Hungarian nationalities in Parliament, and finally considers us to be an equal partner. I started my comment on the 2013 Central Budget Act from a few weeks ago on the report and closing accounts by saying that I am in an easy position, because I can give an honest opinion without responsibility and commitment, because we, the nationalities in Hungary, had nothing to do with the central budgets, preparation and acceptance of the 2013 and previous years. On the other hand, our amendment to the draft law on the central budget of 2015 could be drawn up on our own, we could agree with the professional wallets and the factions, in the political decision on its total amount our opinion was taken into consideration in substance, and even in the light of the total amount, in particular the priorities of the individual ethnic areas, the size and internal proportions of the subtotals, we, the nationalities living in Hungary, could decide for ourselves. For the first time in the last 25 years, the Hungarian Parliament will be faced with the decision of the central budget bill and its amendments, not without us and above our heads, but with the opinion of the nationalities living in Hungary being heard and taken into account. This is rightly and without exaggeration, at least from our point of view, a historical change. Finally, let me remind you of the closing thoughts of my first festive speech to Parliament on 30 June 2014. Democracy is undoubtedly the most advanced political form, despite the fact that minority nationalities in democracy can never directly enforce their will with their votes. We Hungarian nationalities, for the simple reason that we do not have the right to vote. The well-being of nationalities depends on the loyalty and sensitivity of the majority society, the rightful and positive discrimination it employs for the benefit of nationalities. This will also be a test of the maturity of democracy in Hungary. We, the advocates of Hungarian nationalities, did what we could, what was ours. It is up to you, the Hungarian Parliament, to adopt and vote on our amendments. That's your responsibility now. This vote can clearly confirm and indisputable the very positive change that has been felt for about two years, the essence of which is that Hungarian politics understands and understands: national cohesion, the creation of national unity must be founded at home, by embracing national minorities in Hungary, by guaranteeing genuine, guaranteed national rights. Only this can provide a stable basis, credibility and effectiveness for efforts related to Hungarian ethnicity living outside the border, supported by us and considered absolutely legitimate. It's in everyone's best interest. On this basis, we, the nationalities living in Hungary, can finally represent Hungary honestly, with a good heart, authentically in our mother countries and throughout Europe, which we consider to be our priority. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit? Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-21-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Next round of speeches. I give the floor first to Mr Zsolt Becsó of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the government has taken significant measures to create a work-based economy. Among these, the launch of the job protection action announced in summer 2012 is also highlighted. Government programmes that have enabled 890 thousand people to work and reduced employers' burdens by HUF 205 billion will continue in 2015. Next year, the job protection action will be part-time tax relief for parents with small children, and the employer's social contribution allowance will be extended. Next year, there will be a part-time tax reduction for women, which was introduced by the government in 2011, when the social security contribution was reduced from 27 per cent to 20 per cent. Gyed extra continues in 2015, in which we also encourage employers to employ mothers with small children through tax incentives. Dear House, The government's aim is to further expand the family tax system and encourage the second child's commitment. The government plans to continue to increase tax incentives for people with two children from 2016 to 2019. The Gyed extra introduced a year ago will continue in 2015 because it has become clear that it is suitable for significant incentives for childbearing and the employment of mothers with small children. In order to improve the labour market situation of parents with small children, the government will also extend the social contribution tax relief granted by employers under the employment protection action. On the basis of the amendment, the employer's social contribution allowance for parents with small children is also available for part-time employees up to a gross amount of HUF 100,000. [[17.20]] Moreover, it is a priority to ensure that people of active age who are able to work receive as much income as possible, that no income replacement allowance is required. Competitive vocational training is also an essential tool for strengthening the labour-based society and the functioning of a competitive economy, with the priority of strengthening the dual vocational training system and making the operation and management of vocational training more effective. To this end, it is necessary to establish a single system of management and implementation of vocational training. Dear House, With the extension of the public employment system, the government has created the opportunity to participate in value-creating work for even wider layers. As in recent years, the 2015 priority is the continuation and gradual extension of the Start Work Programme; the 2015 objective is to allow as many people as possible to work in value-creating work as possible, especially those who are disadvantaged in the labour market, those with lower education, those without work and people with changed job skills to be employed by the government. The overall objective of the programme is to promote a return to the competitive sector, the primary labour market. Complex business development is the main objective of the priority, in order to develop complex corporate capacities of companies with growth potential, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to increase their ability to generate income and to improve their market positions. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to further develop technologically intensive activities, to root out high value added production and strategic services in Hungary, and, in particular, to modernise the SME sector and strengthen its role in employment. In the case of interventions in the priority axis, it is particularly important to integrate within each enterprise development project the development of the enterprise organisation and human resources, job creation, the use of infocommunication technology and applications, and business and market development activities. And last but not least, in order to further stimulate economic growth, the corporate tax on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary remains low. From 2011 the government reduced corporate tax from 19 percent to 10 percent, up to HUF 500 million tax base, which will continue next year. In addition, the government is determined to have a single-key corporate tax in this cycle. Next year, companies supporting higher education institutions will benefit from corporate tax benefits, and companies supporting visual team sports, performers, art organizations and Hungarian films will continue to receive tax relief. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Dezső, Member of the Parliament's notary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about a case that is not included in the 2015 budget, but should be included in my opinion. This case is about the renovation of the panel buildings. I think this case has a story. There was a period that was an undeniably successful period, a significant number of panel dwellings were renewed, and of course also the apartments in it. I think it was a successful program, although I'm not saying it was absolutely perfect. Surely this could have been refined and improved, but can it be said in any case that the buildings built 35-40 years ago have a significant number in the country? Have large numbers of such buildings been built in Budapest or in county cities? , 25-30 percent was renovated in the previous panel program. The housing communities of buildings who have undertaken to renovate the building have not only won that they can live in a more economical building, they can pay less rent, but I also think that from an aesthetic point of view, these buildings provide something other than those provided previously, and I think we should also remember that the value of these apartments, these buildings, has also increased significantly. We have also seen that this has changed recently. In recent years, the number of applications issued has been zero since 2010. I think this is unpleasant news, and it is even more unpleasant that the government was in serious delay, because there were those who were able to pay in 2013 on the basis of the applications adopted in 2009, and that was when, in practice, four years of slippage, what was successfully won by these residential communities in 2009. And as I looked at the 2015 budget, I found that this number is still not going to increase. However, I also think that we could think together on this matter, all the more so, because I have brought you a quote, and I would like to read to you, János Bencsik, Secretary of State, did this at the time as Secretary of State. In response to an interpellation on a panel program in 2010, he said:. During the first years, a slower start-up phase could result in an equivalent renovation of 100 thousand flats per year, then gradually accelerated, of 150 to 200 thousand flats per year. We strive to ensure that the application system works predictablely, so that the conditions of application, residents and residential communities can plan for years in advance every year. Through a green bank to be set up, we want to ensure that the credit facility, the instalments of which will be determined on the basis of the return on investment, is not charged to household daily expenditure to carry out the renovation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These are sympathetic and beautiful words, although I recall what happened to the Secretary of State in 2010. If I remember correctly, you were the victim of an internal struggle within a faction, but perhaps now as a Member of Parliament, my amendment on this subject? which is in line with what he said? He might have a sponsor from the Fidesz benches.
u2014-11-21-130	Mr. Messenger! We're in the debate on the budget law, so I respectfully ask you to speak in line with that? Okay? Thank you very much. According to the rules of the house, if that's not the case, I'm forced to withdraw the floor from you.
u2014-11-21-131	I believe that the renovation of the residence of hundreds of thousands of families living in Hungarian society is a subject of the budget.
u2014-11-21-132	Clearly, I do not dispute that, but at the moment, Mr Bencsik's past is not, it has been linked to the last four years, and under what circumstances he left the faction, it is certainly not a subject that can be linked to the budget.
u2014-11-21-133	Thank you very much. I will pay attention to what you have said, although we have heard a lot about eight years lately; I have only gone back four years. Anyway, I'm trying to stick to it. I think what I would like to say to you could be a program that is acceptable to Fidesz, because it fits all its elements into what Fidesz plans to do in the coming years. What are these? One is that you want to reduce the rent in the apartments. I think the real reduction is to renovate these apartments and these buildings. I say that it is a real reduction in the rent, because it is fair, because the current reduction in the rent benefits those who operate a pool, a sauna, and others, but this is about residential buildings. So I think the reduction of the overhead could be a common point in the coming period. Our goal is for us, and I think for Fidesz, and even for all the parties operating in the country, so that domestic construction can get orders. This could be a program where domestic construction can be completed, and the state is good, the taxes and contributions received, I think they can increase the state register. Another common point could be the creation of new jobs. I think that if we look at this together, we can see that such a major programme or such a programme can really increase the number of jobs. The next such common point could be energy dependence and energy import reduction. This is what we are constantly talking about, that this is a problem and that is why it is necessary to build more and more facilities that meet this need. [[17 .30]] Then, if we reduce this energy demand, I believe that we can meet this too. Therefore, I think that if you think about this and you will consider that hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary are waiting for such calls to be made, then this could be a common point in which we can think together. Finally, I hope that the amendment that I tabled, since it does not conflict with Fidesz's ideas, may find support. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-21-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. On behalf of the government, István Nagy, State Secretary asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-21-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, More than once, when we are discussing the Hungarian budget, we are missing segments of what happens from EU funding. This is particularly the case for investments in the environment. I would like to put an end to my dear fellow Member's doubts, because I myself, as mayor earlier, know the operation of this, and I am very grateful for the opportunity to insulate 90 percent of the panels in the city of Mosonmagyaróvár, precisely as a result of this programme. That is why I know what the possibility for people to do this means, that they can be reduced by half, and that the value of their houses is obviously 1.5-2 million forints more expensive per panel. We agree on your need, in the criticism that the budget does not deal with it, but in that we do not, allow me to do so. But if we are here in the field of environmental protection, there are also some questions raised in the speech by Anita Heringes and in the speech by my fellow Member Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Allow me to highlight how these can be achieved on some of the issues concerned, which are also missing from the budget. First of all, let me say a few words about the Ramsari Convention and its financing, as we perform the tasks of this Convention as a job task through the central staff of the FM and its staff. So every year we organize the World Day of Wetlands, the source of which is provided by the wallet. Are we operating the Hungarian Ramsari National Committee, members of the interest representation bodies involved? like research sites, universities, NGOs, farmers? They perform their tasks free of charge, voluntarily and in social work with a high degree of effectiveness. In relation to the national park directorates, let me reply by saying that their budget support for 2015 is the same as in 2014 but that the change in the main sources of income, the reduction or absence of agricultural subsidies available to them so far, SAPS and AKG have a significant impact on several of their revenue factors during 2015. The Boards have used all the possibilities to increase their own revenues. In the period 2014-20, nearly HUF 50 billion of resources are expected to be available to perform conservation tasks in the framework of the CUHOP and GINOP projects. Does the wallet do everything in its power to ensure that the animal husbandry aids to be advertised can be used to the full by the management board? if necessary? carry out internal transfers of funds within its own wallet. I would like to point out here that Mrs Heringes misses the money-refunds announced and agreed in the grass action. I would like to point out that this year, in the framework of the 2014 budget, will not be carried over to the next year, and will be transferred from the RKI now, so success will come much earlier than the next budget. My fellow Member, Mr R. Benedek, also made some comments on the operation of CITES. Hungary has been a member of the Washington Convention governing international trade in endangered wild plants since 1985. We have a significant role to play in the trade in animal and plant species and their products in the region and in monitoring them. Our country has always been, and is now, at the forefront, in detecting shipments of illegal origin. Have we established and run a strict regulatory control system? Customs, police, environmental and nature control? which are able to effectively filter out illegally placed animals and plants. Illegal acts shall be combated with appropriate rigour by the authorities and shall be subject to penalties proportionate to the gravity of the act. The portfolio is regularly trained, several times a year, and further training the officials of the authorities concerned. Hungary was also actively involved in shaping the relevant EU legislation, but our country was also elected to the Standing Committee of the Convention in 2013 as a recognition of our work at international level. In addition, our regional role is shown by the fact that just this year we won the right to implement a Twinning programme in Serbia, in which Hungarian professionals trained the experts of the Serbian authorities in the area for six months. I am convinced that Hungary is doing everything in its power to implement the Convention and to protect its species. Nature conservation is not a failure to mitigate the economic damage caused by protected animal species because there are also existing legal provisions and the necessary budgetary coverage. The Nature Protection Act also regulates rules on the prevention of damage to protected animals and on compensation. According to the law, where a protected animal can cause harm to another, it is the responsibility of the farmer, the owner, the user and the trustee of the property to prevent any damage. On the basis of the legislation, if the farmer is unable to prevent the damage, he may request the professional assistance of the nature conservation authority or the assistance of the body with the necessary expertise through the nature conservation authority. If the damage has occurred, the farmer is entitled to compensation within the limits of the legislation. Under the above legislation, legitimate claims for compensation are met each year. The issue of the European landscape agreement has also been raised. In Florence, on October 20, 2000, the law on the publication of the European Landscape Convention was published by law here in Hungary as well. The Minister for Nature Protection shall ensure the measures necessary for the implementation of the Act in agreement with the Minister for Culture and in cooperation with the Minister for Territorial Development and Spatial Planning. To this end, a National Coordination Working Group on the European Landscape Convention was also established. The integration of landscape aspects into the national development and territorial development concept, an integrated document coordinating development policy and territorial development objectives, is a major step forward in the implementation of the Convention in Hungary. The national spatial planning plan as well as the Balaton Law designates zones for the protection of the landscape at the legal level, the protection of the landscape system is integrated into urban planning and certain specific official procedures. The measures taken to increase public information and awareness of the subject are as follows. In the year preceding the donation of the Council of Europe landscape fee, the wallets responsible for implementing the Landscape Convention shall tender at national level for the submission of competition at European level. In 2012, the Minister for Nature Protection founded the Hungarian Landscape Award in connection with the application system at national level, which was first presented in 2013. Publications are published, workshops are held and the TÉKA programme is operated. He also brought up the Carpathian Convention, which adopted the Sustainable Tourism Strategy of the Carpathian Convention at its Ministerial Conference in September 2014. Our wallet was also involved in the work of the task force that drew up the strategy. According to our information, the minutes relating to the Convention on the protection of cultural heritage are under way at the Prime Minister's Office. With the coordination of the network of protected areas in Carpathia, the Bioregion in the Carpathia project has produced professional documents with the help of the Duna-Ipoly National Park Directorate, which the national park directorates in Hungary will also be able to make effective use of on the basis of their management activities and the preparation of management plans. Of course, our wallet was also involved in the work of the task force. The issue of small-scale particulate matter has been raised, with a government decision on its cross-sectoral programme of measures containing some 23 main measures to reduce PM10 pollution in five intervention areas, by reducing PM10 emissions as effectively as possible. By the end of 2013, around HUF 100 billion were used to implement the measures in the programme, mostly in the transport sector. [[17.40]] The withdrawal of the HUF 54 million budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2014 and the chapter management of HUF 54 million planned for 2015 from the total expenditure amount therefore paints a fairly distorted picture of the actual situation. The tasks assigned to the first local responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture require a considerable reduction in expenditure compared to the implementation of measures in the transport sector, which have been given priority in the programme. In addition, the framework of the portfolio is aimed directly at the preparation of studies, studies, draft legislative acts, data reporting, and does not include other government and EU funds that contribute directly or indirectly to the implementation of the tasks set out in the transport and other sectors. Measures to reduce air pollution include, among other things, the heat of the home, which is now published, including the heating-up, shutter replacement and household replacement programmes, a number of other previous energy efficiency programmes such as the panel programme, the eco-programme or the sub-programmes of the green investment system. Transport emission reduction measures include the implementation of the existing large-scale bus exchange programme and vehicle modernisation tasks, the continuation of awareness-raising initiatives to influence traffic patterns, the development and dissemination of occupational transport plans and, of course, the implementation of continuous infrastructure development measures. In view of all of this, I can say firmly and I hope to remove all remaining doubts as to the determination of the government to provide healthy, clean air and to reduce PM10 pollution, for which it is making considerable efforts and to which it devotes considerable resources. The issue of waste management has also been mentioned several times today, since it does not only cover waste management, but not only public services, but is a much more complex area. Therefore, the increase in aid indicated in the proposal does not exclusively support the waste management public service because, in order to meet the recovery rates set by the European Union, it is necessary for operators active in the waste management area? Not just for the public services? an appropriate opportunity must be created. This is a priority task for Hungary, as non-compliance with recovery obligations can result in infringement procedures and fines by the European Union. Accordingly, the National Waste Management Agency organises and coordinates separate waste collection, processing and recovery activities at national level. To this end, OHÜ plans and implements the national waste collection and recovery plan. It is also a priority to develop the recycling industry for waste management and to carry out educational, educational and awareness-raising activities in relation to the environmental education of the public. In any case, thank you very much for the opportunity to have a word and to have a dialogue on environmental issues. I think, as has been the case so far, every member of the agricultural portfolio is still at the forefront of all questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-21-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr István Szávay. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Imre Ritter for his previous speech, which he obviously did not only on his own behalf, but also on behalf of the other ethnic advocates. I consider everything he has said to be very important and exemplary, whether from the point of view of the fact that the ethnic advocates of the Hungarian Parliament support the aspirations of Hungarians abroad, or from the point of view of what he has said, that they are essentially satisfied with the chapter of this budget, or have made amendments that may seem to be accepted by the government. Of course, we will support this ourselves. We have often said how important it is for nationalities to feel that Hungary is their home and feel that they have the fullness of the rights that we ourselves consider important to ensure that Hungarian communities in neighbouring countries are guaranteed. I thank you, in particular, for the sentence that nationalities in the governments of their mother countries will also be involved in these matters. Thank you very much again for this. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, Basically, I would like to talk about the parts and chapters of support for national policy, but before that, please allow me two other amendments to which I would like to comment. One concerns the support of the National Cooperation Fund, where we are talking about HUF 5 billion 400 million. We are pleased to see a significant increase compared to the previous years compared to HUF 3-3,5 billion. There seems to be a significant increase here. I would like to note two things in this regard, and three in fact. The first is that I would like to propose an additional HUF 2.5 billion to increase the costs of the National Cooperation Fund, because this will be the only way to achieve the original amount that the predecessor of this fund, the national civil society fund, had. A few years ago, even at the time of the change of government, HUF 7.7 billion was tendered to Hungarian NGOs, which they could use and apply for operational purposes and funding their programmes. So it's a pleasure to see a serious increase compared to last year. However, this still does not reach the level at which you took over the government at the time, in 2010. On the other hand, I would also like to express my concerns or my fears that I very much hope that this significant increase is not due to the fact that you might be thinking about abolishing 1+1 or at least 1 percent of the personal income tax that can be offered to civilians. It is just because the news has spread in civil society recently, and that is why the policy of your civil society and civil society organisations under the government, which only supports civil society organisations close to you, unfortunately, would fit in very well. I asked Mr András Tállai the Secretary of State two weeks ago a written question as to whether the government was planning to abolish the 1%s, and unfortunately I did not get a straight and clear answer to that. So I trust that this intention has not been raised in you, and I hope that this is not the intention behind the increase in the budget support of the National Cooperation Fund. The other is a topic that I have dealt with on several occasions: I propose the creation of a separate line with the title of the National Cultural Fund, the device development of small town cinemas with municipal reservations. In recent years, the National Cultural Fund has set out virtually only an opportunity to apply for arts, and rural small-town cinemas, which can still operate and operate at all, are practically unable to obtain a tender source, cannot modernise their tools, which, of course, can be seen in the long term by the audience. Where small rural cinemas like Soltvadkerten still operate, as in my home town, they are in an increasingly difficult position without opportunities for tender. We have spoken several times in this House, and you have rejected this proposal on several occasions, and I would like to bring it to you again and again. And then allow me to give a summary of a few sentences on national politics. On the one hand, we would consider it important not to continue the practice that, again this year, last year, has been the case with a separate government decree that, in addition to the national political budget, grants of a very large amount, up to a billion-dollar magnitude, are being paid. Of course, do we not have a problem with the government providing new resources for national policy purposes? If, of course, you do so reasonably? However, the budget is relatively difficult to plan and transparent, so that the government supports a 14-15 billion-dollar area in the course of the year with an individual decision of 2-3 billion forints. Unfortunately, in four years, you have failed to resolve the fragmentation of the application system. The serious problem is that besides the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which is supposed to be designed to deal with national policy subsidies in a transparent and uniform manner, there are also different applications at the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Human Resources. We've been pushing for a long time, and I'm doing it now to try and change this situation. [[17.50]] The same problem also exists with regard to budgetary resources; instead of a single system, there are more than 30 lines of national policy funding in many separate chapters. And as far as summation is concerned, it is relatively difficult to calculate precisely because of fragmentation. Last year there was an increase in the amount of national political aid compared to previous years. We were still afraid it was an election budget. Unfortunately, we have to see that these fears were justified, and we have to see overall that the next year's budget provides less money and less resources for these purposes. And then allow me to argue in favour of some specific proposals. It is a very old problem, we talked about it many times in the House, we talked about it at a committee meeting, at a ministerial hearing, all the competent authorities admitted that there was a problem at the Hungarian-Ukrainian border. And that is now independent of the situation in Ukraine. Quite simply the possibility of Hungarian-Ukrainian border crossing, its speed is quite simply tragic. There are hours in line. Not to mention the humiliations, my fellow Member says, this is not part of the budget, but we have used quite a lot of these signs in the direction of the Ministry of the Interior, that we have a lot of complaints about how they behave and how they treat them at the border, especially the Transcarpathian Hungarians who would cross or who would like to cross regularly. But it is a bigger problem, and I would like to emphasise once again that this has been acknowledged on several occasions by the competent authorities that the way in which border controls are taking place is indeed inadequate, especially as long as border crossings can take place. So we would definitely like to allocate funds here, we proposed 500 million forints, however much we are very, very happy to do, which would mean that the technical development of the border crossing or even the increase of the population in order to make border crossings smoother. National institutions, HUF 4 billion and HUF 126 million. We would also consider it appropriate to increase this. Isn't that what this is about? The government has declared a number of Hungarian institutions from abroad to be of national importance, including educational institutions, cultural institutions, theatres, universities, but there are also civil society organisations, such as teachers' associations, which, contrary to previous practice, do not need to apply, but can receive some kind of normative state support. This system was supposed to be welcomed. We thought it was right. There are several problems with its implementation. On the one hand, the source is not sufficient, of course, and on the other hand it was managed to do so, while you keep talking about the need for a consensus on national policy, the Hungarian opposition parties did not even have the opportunity to make suggestions in the compilation of this list, despite the fact that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén promised this at the meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference two years ago. On the one hand, we continue to push for this opportunity, since the meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference took place yesterday in such a calm and constructive atmosphere. We have seen this in a number of newscasts, and we hope that this constructivity will bring to mind the words of the Deputy Prime Minister two years ago. Education education grants: 4 billion 820 million. Dear fellow Members, There wasn't enough 5.5 billion forints for education support two years ago, so for me it is quite incomprehensible why this amount is included. So 5,5 billion HUF was not enough, it had to be replaced by a separate government decision with HUF 720 million in order to ensure that all applicants were Hungarian parents from abroad or, more precisely, children, that they could receive this amount. Unfortunately, we have come to that shameful situation, and there is still no answer to that, by the way, why, after last year, the total amount was not paid this year. We are talking about HUF 22 400 per child, and you withheld one quarter of it with a noble simplicity last year, then you promised to pay it. This is where Zsuzsanna Répás promised, with reference to the secretary of state, Bence Rétvári, it did not happen. This year, no promises were made, but only HUF 17 200 was paid, although this amount has been unchanged for 12 years, so it is far from worth as much as when it was introduced. Compared to this, you have taken this money away from these Hungarian families, but as I see it, next year's budget is already calculated in such a way that you do not want to secure this amount. Now, it is not just that this money should be paid in the form that has been promised, and as the stakeholders have applied for it, and as the tenders have been accepted; a significant increase in this amount is required, to which I would add that, in Jobbik's view, and now perhaps a debate on how to change the system will start to improve it. In Jobbik's view, the educational institutions and institutions receiving children should receive grants equal to this amount. It is very nice and very noble to go to a Hungarian school and rely on the national identity of parents when, in many cases, we see that the Hungarian school is in much worse condition, there is a lower level of education, under worse conditions and poorly equipped, so it is very important that the Hungarian institutions can also receive such support for children in order to be competitive. Well, it's an old favourite of mine, and I've actually brought it to you for the sake of order, so I can talk about it again: support for the development of foreign Hungarian studios. I've been bringing this in every year for four years, and for four years, someone has always promised me at the committee meeting that this is very important, but they won't accept it now because I don't know where, at the media fund, there is already an invitation to support the development of the Hungarian TV studios abroad. I have just brought this in again, and I propose again 500 million HUF for the purpose that Hungary has not helped Hungarian televisions across the border in 12 years to provide support for asset development. And then I'm waiting again for someone to promise me that next year, there's gonna be money for this from somewhere else. It's a sporadic care program. There is a special Diaspora Council within the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin, there is a separate Szórvány Special Committee, and members of the Hungarian Permanent Conference are the organizations that represent Hungarians living in the sporadics, among other things, in addition to the Hungarians living in the bloc. We would very much like this task to be supported separately and independently in the budget. According to Jobbik, sporadic care centers and sporadic care centers are needed throughout the regions of the Carpathian Basin where Hungarians live only a small number. Think of the Upper Tisza, the Banishment or the South Transylvania. To save these Hungarian communities, a special programme must be drawn up, and this requires special care from the mother country, so we would like to allocate HUF 300 million for this purpose. Has an old request been made by Deputy Prime Minister Semyen in 2010? Do you think it's very important? , and this is the provision of Hungarian student ID to foreign Hungarian students. There are many ways to do that. We would be pleased if this opportunity could also appear independently in the budget. It is possible in many ways, since thousands of Hungarian students from abroad are now living and studying in the broken parts of the country, who are studying in Hungarian higher education institutions there, we could also provide the Hungarian student ID for them, because they are students of institutions supported by the Hungarian state, and the Hungarian state was also involved in the creation of it. On the other hand, we can also consider that every Hungarian student who studies outside the borders of the country, regardless of the quality or language of the institution, but who has Hungarian citizenship, could be granted a student's ID similar to that of Hungarian students. Care of the graves of war. I know that in this connection there is a possibility, especially with the Ministry of Defence, and there have been programmes for the care of war tombs abroad in recent years, and there have been applications in this regard, but it would be good and important if there were a separate fund for this. We would like to estimate 100 million HUF for this purpose, as this year is the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of World War I, and then in the coming years there will be many commemorative celebrations. It would be worth opening up and repairing, or at least trying to repair, any grave that would cover Hungarian dead people and Hungarian soldiers, either in torn areas or outside the Carpathian Basin. And I would like to make one last suggestion before you. This was an important element of Jobbik's program in the current elections. This is also to help and support the development of the sister-town and sister-town relations of the Hungarian settlements in Hungary and the Hungarian towns and villages across the border. However, we would go further, since there is a much more complicated, much more diverse net here. [[18.00]] After all, not only should we be talking about a twin city relationship, and not only do we want to support it, but if there are two settlements that conclude a partnership agreement, sister association cooperation is equally important, if possible, sister school cooperation, sister institution cooperation and civil society organisations in the given settlements, whether it be a traditional women's choir or, say, a hunting company, to help and encourage their cooperation. Therefore, we consider it important to apply separately for resources that aim at this complex cooperation and encourage Hungarian settlements to build such a multifaceted partner institution with Hungarian settlements like those from abroad. I may not have to talk much about this significance to you and to this Parliament, as the governing parties have said on several occasions in recent years how important it is to strengthen relations with foreign Hungarian communities. I would therefore like to recommend these proposals to the Parliament and the Government with respect. Please consider them. I don't have any lost illusions about your opinion, but do I trust our proposals? which, on the one hand, I think are technically sound and, on the other hand, are linked to political debates over the past few years? Maybe some of you will find an audition at your house. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now up to a voice of minority advocates. However, before I give the floor to Félix Farkas, a Roma minority advocate, I give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller. Speaker, you have the floor, please. [[Lajos Korózs applauded: Thank you, Mr Vice President.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2014-11-21-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak here in Parliament, perhaps at the most important item on the agenda, on the subject of the budget, since my election. The ethnic authorities living in our country, I mean all thirteen nationalities, are looking forward to receiving increased funding in line with their increased responsibilities. The leaders of our municipalities are already able to sacrifice part of their own salary in order to operate their municipalities at all. As my fellow advocate Ritter Imre has already said, the annual budget of a municipal minority government is HUF 220,000, for a local government it is, let's say, HUF 400 thousand. You know that's not enough for anything, right? The spokespersons appointed by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary also held preliminary discussions on the budget with the governing parties, the opposition parties and, of course, the independent representatives. Based on the feedback so far, we feel that the reception was positive in all cases. I mean, they understood. Thank you. We therefore ask you to support with your votes the need to increase the budget of these difficult national governments when the budget is final. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-21-140	Welcome. Good evening, good work. After the speaker's speech, it would in principle be possible to hold a two-minute debate, but since I do not see a candidate for this, we will continue the line of contributions from the pre-notified speakers, and I will give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, from the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-21-141	Thank you very much. And I didn't expect this to happen so quickly. I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that there are some words that one is positive about and would like to be connected to. These include, among other things, the motion or the speech by Mr Gergely Tapolczai, which we can support to the farthest possible, all the more so because it is a noble matter in the financing of sign language translation services. So thank you very much for having tabled this amendment. By the way, I've done the same thing with the modifications. The other thing is the voice of ethnic advocates. I haven't had the chance to explain this in at least one sentence. I think everyone in this house is a little ethnic. There is no family where there is no German origin, there is no Croatian or Serbian, there is no Slovak or Romanian. I tell you this only because my grandfather has never set foot in his life in the Carpathian Basin, yet our family has a peaceful Romanian, Bunevac, Slovakian and Baranya County Swabian Swabian. So we can support all the efforts that the two ethnic advocates have told us to the farthest. Dear House, Yesterday, I mentioned that today, if we can still fit into the time frame, I would like to talk about a few things, including health care. Am I doing this in the first place because I know exactly what I'm doing? Since I've been representing for quite a long time? that social sub-schemes are not a simple task, whatever color is a government. Indeed, major systems such as education, health care or the reform of the pension system require very, very thorough preparatory work. In addition, we have already tasted what it means when a group of those involved do not support such a transformation, it can be a terrible failure. I would like to refer to the initiative that we decided after 2006 as well as to the reform of health care. Please? Although I see that Mrs. Chief of Medicine has just left, I am not saying this, but I am trying to give my opinion with a better purpose, so that it does not matter that if a government resigns from its mandate, the next government will, as far as possible, take over that area in a better state than it did in the past. From this point of view, I would like to address some of the health problems. It is undisputed that this year the budget will spend more money on health funding, but I must note that the expenditure side of next year's budget, which they want to devote to health, will not even reach the level before last year. Just to give you a very simple example: financing hospital activities and services is indisputable for the government to put more resources into the budget, but these more resources do not reach the 2013 level. Consequently, it can be deducted that, in recent years, several hundred billion forints have been withdrawn from health care. If you count it well, in the previous government cycle, it already exceeded HUF 300 billion in the government cycle of Fidesz. There are many failures, I think, for the government in terms of development. There was a reference here, I believe that Mr Cook pointed out that the waiting lists are even longer, and the number of patients awaiting surgery is now up to 45,000. You can't put that on the plaque. A number of people talked about providing free healthcare for everyone, including the former State Secretary, the current State Secretary for Health, while I see that at the inauguration of private hospitals, the government potentates are happy to parlor with various health investors. Are there plans to stay away from mandatory screenings? Is that coming out of the documents? will result in a loss of full social security entitlement. It's not that I disagree with the fact that as many people as possible go to screening, because that's the first step in solving the problems that come later. As I agree with the head doctor, Mrs Ágnes Molnár, that we should, as far as possible, strengthen basic care in order not to automatically release all patients to hospitals? I put that in quotes, of course? Because there's nothing more expensive than funding the hospital. [[18.10]] It's possible, according to the current proposals, that there will be only one hospital per county. There are two issues about the health and state of the country that I would like to mention. Of the EU Member States, life expectancy at birth is one of the lowest in Hungary, and no government, including the Orbán government, can be proud of that, and unfortunately the European Union has the highest number of premature births in Hungary. No one can be proud of that either. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to quote the President of the Hungarian Hospital Association. With regard to next year's budget, the Chairman of the Hospital Association says that although the government is actually spending more money on health care in his budget, despite the fact that there is no cover for increasing the minimum wage, the re-production of hospital debt cannot be prevented in this way. The Chairman of the Hospital Association pointed out that there was no cover for wage increases, while mobile wages and overtime payments were critically low and no salary increases were granted to those working in the economic and technical field. So I stress that these sentences were not spoken by me, but by the President of the Hungarian Hospital Association. If we look at the various items in the budget, I would like to point out, first of all, in relation to the healing-preventive sector, that although there is a minimum additional resource, there is no meaningful improvement here, I believe. Hospitals will be forced to roll their almost 100 billion dollars in debt ahead of them. I would like to stress that, in the first half of the year, the debt of hospitals seemed almost unmanageable, and it is clear that these problems cannot be resolved without government intervention. I don't want to be an anecdotal and from home, but I'm gonna do it now. Dear Friends! I live across the street from a county hospital, and the security guards tell me that in the case of the drugs delivered to the hospital, the driver and the coachman ask you to check the list, see if they paid for the previous delivery, because if they didn't, the medicine will be returned to the trailer and they'll go. In English, a significant proportion of pharmaceutical suppliers are only willing to deliver medicinal products to hospitals in cash. While Congresswoman Molnár described the situation of the drug store. What has been done, I can agree with some of it, not part of it, but it is an unblessed situation that the debts of hospitals are almost 100 billion forints. I would like to quote Secretary Bence Rétvári. According to him, a general provision of HUF 60 billion will be used next year to settle the debt of the budget institutions, including hospitals. Think about it. He says, Mr Secretary of State, that there is 60 billion forints to finance the deficits of budgetary institutions, including hospitals, which alone have over 100 billion debts. The fact that exactly what part of this will be used to reduce hospital debt will only be revealed in the course of the year, and will, of course, depend on the guarantees that hospitals will take to avoid their debt regenerating. One thing is certain, if there is no systematic intervention, these debts will be generated again and again, and they will most likely only be higher than the current one. The Secretary of State also indicated the residency scholarship programme and said that it would be extended further next year, with 700 additional residents joining the current 1700 participants thanks to additional resources. But the president of the Residents Association says, "The human resources bomb is ticking in health care." Based on the current trend, the number of medical staff will fall to 60 percent of the very low skill shortage level in 2013 by 2023. So I'm not claiming to be the President of the Residents Association. These are cardinal questions. Dear Friends! I'm saying one-sided territory. In North Jasmine, I'm just setting an example of one problem, the issue of GP care. Two years ago, when I was forbidden to work under a pension or, more specifically, the law was amended so that the minister could assess specifically who he was giving entitlement to, I was contacted by people living there and told that 23 settlements were located there? in a contiguous settlement in northern Jasmine? There are only retired general practitioners. Dear Friends! More than two thirds of doctors in the entire Abaúj region are over 70 years old. I just remembered that on the margins. If by 2023 there will be such conditions based on a survey by the Residents Association? Is it clear that there is no reduction in medical emigration at all? The majority of 25-29-year-olds leave the country before obtaining the exam. That's what the President of the Resident Association says. I would like to stress what this is about, that you will leave this country before you pass the exam. It seems that the government has given the residents a scholarship in the previous term in vain, because with the exam, the extra HUF 100 or HUF 200,000 of state aid is over, and the resident has received nearly HUF 300,000 by then, when he is a starting doctor and receives his first salary, this salary of nearly HUF 300,000 will fall to HUF 150-160,000. Consequently, he will not accept this reduction in living standards, and before his examination, as the President says, he will leave the country. I would also like to address another matter, the issue of nationalisation or non-nationalisation. State Secretary Gábor Zombor has already made reference to how the government is dealing with this matter next year. In this context, should it be pointed out that according to the general statement of reasons for the budget? I would like to stress that I am quoting the budget now, and the government considers it essential that public health on a social security basis will be fully free of charge, plus the obligation to pay the patients will not be burdened. I'd like to make two small remarks. Officially, my dear friends, there has been no social security in Hungary for three years. You were left out of the Fundamental Law. That word doesn't include social security. Consequently, any entitlement or entitlement, whether it is a cash benefit or a service, which you want to reduce or take away in this section, can be done by the government legally at any time, because there is no official social security in Hungary. These processes, as I see the State Secretary's speeches and appearances and the government's communication, are quite contradictory. On the one hand, on the road and on the other hand, they are talking about physically separating private and public health, but we also know that they also want to support the development of private health. So it remains vague that we are dealing with stealth reform, or that they really just want to clarify the affairs. The question is, what's the price, yeah, and of course, who's gonna pay for it. Nearly a decade ago, when we were in a situation where we had to think, among other things, about the transformation of this subsystem, it was clear to me: this economy can never, in addition to such income, collect as much taxes and contributions as would be necessary for the operation of health, education and the state at all. Now, please, if that's the case, and that's the case, we should look into some fresh money. Such fresh money could have been the 300 HUF visit fee, which was torpedoed by this governing party, even though that money remained with the doctors. Don't make a mistake, I'm not going to cry back at this situation. I just want to point out that, please, you can't save it so there's no fresh money in health care, new money, because otherwise it's gonna be destroyed, just like the health care system is going down in front of us year after year. Experts say, and according to them, it is a pure, just situation, but it can also be the result of transformations in healthcare that is dependent on poor and rich supply. After the uncertainty after the first announcement, only the direction is certain, because private and public supply is currently rather mixed, at least as far as ownership and the relationship between doctors are concerned. I stress that this is said by people who are professional in health care. [[18.20]] In public hospitals, for example, there are workstations, imaging diagnostic centres, and laboratories that are privately owned but provide care to people in the care sector of the institution. You don't have to give me long examples of that, do you? They have been contracted for a certain amount of care, which is financed by OEP, and they also provide private care for money. They will probably stay for now, as the Secretary of State has said, the state cannot buy them out, nor can it implement new developments on such a scale. So they say something first, and then they back out of it because they realize that it can't be done, at least in the way I want it to be. If I may, some conclusions can be drawn from what has happened in this area in the last month. I stress that Mr Gábor Zombor has repeatedly expressed himself to this. The conclusions are: there is no doctor, hospital or clinic available at this time; not yet. We don't know if there's gonna be a doctor, a hospital or a clinic for extra money. The third conclusion is that not everyone will get the best care, and certainly not quickly. The fourth conclusion is that the public institution cannot operate a private service provider, but it can function temporarily. One more conclusion is that a private operator cannot receive OEP funding, but can temporarily receive OEP funding. Finally, hospital doctors working with the contributing contract are not private providers. If we draw all these conclusions, then allow the one and only sentence that there is terrible uncertainty, and doctors and hospital directors are the most confused. Dear House, We remember the slogan that health is not a business. Viktor Orbán himself mentioned this several times since 2008, then Fidesz was still opposed to the presence of private insurance companies in health care, and even made it impossible by referendum to pay the 300 HUF visitation fee mentioned above by a patient and get to the doctor or stay with the doctor. However, in 2010 Viktor Orbán thought otherwise. Did you say 2010? Literally, I quote? To put health care on a new footing, people want a different health system than the government is trying to force them to do. Health care must be renewed in such a way that it does not lead to chaos as it does today, but that it works better, it must be renewed so that people are not sicker than they are today, but healthier. The state should take on more responsibility, no less, spend more money on health care and education, and no less. That's what the Prime Minister himself said. And we also remember when you told us not to listen to what I'm saying, but what I'm doing. As I mentioned earlier, it was stated in the old constitution that the state has an obligation to organise and finance healthcare, and this is done through the social security system, in Hungarian: the citizen is entitled to benefits in return for contributions. As I mentioned, this passage has been omitted from the Fundamental Law, even the state does not commit itself to providing public health care. The term social security was also deleted from the Fundamental Law, as I mentioned earlier. In essence, insurance-based health care has been abolished, since 27 percent of the social contributions paid as employers' obligations have been converted into social contributions taxes. This is where I note that if this is a social contribution tax and not a social security contribution, then, my dear friends? I'm a sociologist, but even I know that? It's tax. Tax is a public burden. And after the public burden, there's no compensation? silence consent. [[Tamás Vargha: How funny you are!]] Then Mr Orbán promised discounts to profit-oriented private insurers, and the tax laws were amended in order to allow companies to make private health insurance for their employees free of taxes and contributions. This is quite relevant for the current processes. Extraction will only be simplified if you control everything from one hand. For the time being, we see that since the state took over the operation of hospitals, their debt has roughly doubled, while private services and paid benefits are coming in nicely. Well, my dear friends, we look good in front of the Lord. There's probably going to be health care for the poor, and there's going to be a high standard for the rich, and they're going to be able to pay for it well. Well, that's the direction we're going, I see, but we're not really gonna help you with that. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-21-142	Thank you very much. Congressman encouraged the government, the government took the page, and I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs has drawn attention to several problems, but I have heard not only the problems, but also the results of recent years. Let us face the challenges faced by the country as a whole, and if we are talking about a budget, let us also mention the budgetary situation in which the government has had to deal with, for example, health problems in recent years. I say, and I repeat this for many times, the figures show that, in the general budgetary economic situation, when Europe was struggling with a debt crisis, when the deficit in public finances in Hungary was persistently well below 3 per cent, we managed to repair the state's finances so that we could achieve substantial economic growth that we could talk about progress in a number of areas, including health care. Congressman, you mentioned that the Resident Scholarship has been launched. Yeah, it's been going on lately. I think that is undoubtedly positive. This scholarship programme will continue with the draft budget law for next year. Congressman mentioned that the wage increase could have been more. I think it is extremely positive that, unlike many of Europe's countries, there has been no gross wage cuts in any field in the public sector. We can remember that net incomes have increased in many cases, thanks to the new tax system, and even gross wage increases have started in several areas in the public sector, including in the health sector. Two steps, in 2012 and 2013 could result in a salary increase of HUF 30-30 billion. Congressman, you mentioned that the system of support for medicines has been transformed. Yes, this not only meant significant savings to the State and was necessary, for example, in order to achieve wage increases, but also because of the so-called blind system, the use of generic products has brought down the price of thousands of medicines. People who buy drugs in the context of these transformations pay less today than they did several years ago. I think that these values should be valued, and I think that we should continue to support them. Mr. Congressman has repeatedly drawn attention to several problems. I agree that all the processes that have started in recent years do not solve all the health problems in themselves. However, the budget proposal before us again contains progress, as has been the case in recent years. Why? Because, in addition to the funding already made in recent years, the basic supply, which has been mentioned many times, will receive an extra 10 billion if the honourable Parliament accepts the proposal submitted by the Government. In order to relieve hospitals, the general medical system will receive a HUF 10 billion bonus. If we look at the proposal, this is the first step in strengthening the general medical system, and the public proposal with the numbers 2016-18 contains an additional HUF 10 billion from 2016. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned the critical situation of debt. The government intends to use a new instrument of debt consolidation, which has not been seen before, in 2016. This means that HUF 60 billion will be allocated to reduce the debt of budgetary bodies if the debt reduction is combined with the transformation of a longer-term, more financially sustainable system. [[18.30]] I think this is important because the government is proposing not only to deal with an existing problem, but also to make changes that prevent debt from regenerating in the longer term. I think this is extremely important. It is not enough to deal with a problem on a case-by-case basis, but also to solve it in the longer term. We have seen good patterns from the past period, and I regard municipal debt consolidation as this. Not only did the municipalities get rid of their debt worth HUF 1300 billion, but a new set of rules and a new task financing system has been established to prevent debt regenerating. I think this is also a good example of solving the problems that we are facing. Finally, let me interpret the issue of health in a broader way, and let me quote the Prime Minister, just as MEP Lajos Korózs mentioned. The Prime Minister said the goal was not to make people sick, but to be healthy. Congressman, if we look at the government's activities over the last few years, we can see that it has not only focused on the transformation of the health system, but has decided to introduce daily physical education in order to spread and strengthen healthier lifestyles, it has preferred healthier lifestyles in public health programmes, or has taken a number of measures against smoking. So, please, let us take a comprehensive look at what the government has done, what Parliament has done towards a healthier lifestyle. Finally, let me also argue with Mr President that in the health insurance register there is insufficient resources to carry out expenditure, there cannot be sufficient resources, and the government is not looking for new resources. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned the amount of the social contribution tax. Please consider, in fact, how this amount has evolved, how employment has evolved, after which the social contribution tax has to be paid to employers. This amount has increased significantly. Why? Because, thank God, Hungary has a substantial economic growth, there are employment figures that break peaks in the twenty-year period. Therefore, the amount of the social contribution tax is increasing and the revenues of the Health Insurance Fund are increasing. Mr Congressman, I must also argue that the government would not have sought new means of financing healthcare expenditure. I would remind everyone that the public health product tax has recently been introduced. It was not simply a fiscal instrument. It was not just a matter of finding cover for health expenditure, but a tool was introduced to try to curb the consumption of healthier foods by market and economic means by the government and Parliament. I think I can say here that two birds can be struck with one stone, because these measures can achieve results in two areas, and I repeat, they have been extra income for the medical register. Congressman! I repeat, I agree with you that there are tasks ahead of us. Please consider the measures taken by the Parliament and the government. These measures, I think, have been tangible in many cases. Doctors and nurses make more money today than they did a few years ago. And please consider, when voting on the budget proposal, whether or not you are in favour of the possibility of moving forward, of newer funding, or of newer measures in the direction of a healthier lifestyle. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-144	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. We will now return to the speakers that have been announced, and I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the foreign chapters of the 2015 draft budget law. I'm going to have a hard time, because diplomacy, due to its nature and nature, is somewhat out of line. I'm going to have a hard time because costs are not necessarily related to efficiency. Efficiency itself is a relative concept, and, of course, it can be interpreted according to objectives, and it is no longer certain that we always agree on objectives, as regards diplomacy and the foreign policy strategy. For a reason, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has repeatedly formulated a criticism of the foreign policy strategy of the last 25 years. In this sense, we are also having conceptual, rather than specific, and budgetary debates on the draft budgetary law. In order to illustrate the nature of the problem, I would like to recall the debate between the current government and previous governments on how many foreign representations, for example, have been opened by which government and how many have been closed. It is possible to argue on this, of course, and to compete on how many diplomatic institutions have been closed or foreign representations and how many have been opened, but that is not necessarily the point of the problem, and it is not certain that this is appropriate. There are many different models in terms of foreign affairs, in terms of diplomacy. There are models in the world that have very low infrastructure, very low costs, but are very effective in enforcing the diplomatic interests of a given country. For example, Singapore, just to give an example. There are, mostly in the West, countries that exercise the country's interests with high investment in infrastructure, very large numbers of people and presence in many countries. There are many of these countries. There are also countries, such as ours, that operate with large infrastructure, high cost, large staff and very little efficiency. Unfortunately, Hungarian diplomacy is the same. The effectiveness of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very much explained by the sentence attributed to one of Lajos Simicska's media empires, he noted, exceptionally very well and critically, that if there were no Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we would not necessarily have noticed it in the last 25 years. In order to avoid misunderstanding, the person on the News TV channel made this statement during the second Orbán government. This is a fitting statement, because it has been 25 years, and it can be said that while the world has been transformed around us, a whole new world order is emerging, and Central and Eastern Europe has also been completely transformed, the surrounding countries have been transformed to a very large extent, and Hungary has perhaps been the only country in the region that has not been able to enforce its own national interests. I don't have time to go through the transformations that have happened, but we all know what this is about. Czechoslovakia has fallen apart, the Soviet Union has fallen apart, in the region of Yugoslavia, which has been built on the ruins of Trianon, half a dozen states, even Kosovo and Montenegro have fallen out of Serbia, so to speak. The only ancient nation that has been in the Carpathian Basin for 1100 years has not been able to enforce its interests, and has not even achieved a wretched territorial autonomy for its minorities across the border, in any direction, in Slovakia, in Romania, Ukraine, in Transcarpathia, or in the southern direction of the South. This is Hungary. It's a sad fact, but I'm afraid that's true. Let's talk about world order, shall we? Hungary has adapted its foreign policy and foreign policy strategy to a single-polar world order over the last 25 years, while the blind and the stupid can see that a multipolar world order is emerging. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs could have worked with a staff of about two in the last 25 years, a person who could handle a fax machine and a person who could translate the Ukazás received from the fax from Brussels and Washington from an eloquent English language into an eloquent Hungarian language. Because that's about what's happened in our little country in the last 25 years, and we're gonna have to drink it today. A small country has basically two options if it wants to enforce its national interests in the world. Or he is born a great power, and he pushes his interests through the world from power; perhaps today only one country is fully capable of doing so, called the United States of America. I don't know what that's gonna do to the world, so let's just leave it at that. Every other country has only one other option to try to stop the correct diagnosis, to evaluate events in the world, and somehow to extrapolate them, to project them for the future, and to build a strategy for this. So, to acquire the ability of foresight. [[18.40]] This is essential, every country does this, even the biggest, and for that, we need institutions. For example, we need an analytical institute that explores, analyzes, analyzes events in the world, and for this, official diplomacy develops a strategy and tries to enforce national interests in the world in this way. Hungary first reached the level of understanding the essence of this problem in 2007, and then set up an Institute of Foreign Affairs in which the leaders changed annually, so ergo there was no continuity within the institution and the organization, there was no concept within the organization, and the work of the whole has become something that concerns background analyses. He worked with a limited budget, limited number of staff, and the researchers were civil servants, and in this sense his margin of manoeuvre was limited. So that's how the Institute of Foreign Affairs tried to prevail until this year's end. As far as I know, the appearance of this institution is gone. It's been completely liquidated. I don't know if the State Department is even in need of the world's processes. 'Cause there's, like, a lot of turbulence going on? I don't know if there's even a need to analyse this, whether there's a budget intention to separate money and create a think tank that analyzes, researches and builds a nation strategy for the benefit of the country and the nation. I don't see that, and I can't read it from the budget. Of course, it can also be said that we are renaming the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and from now on we are talking only about GDP, imports, exports, strategic cooperation and other economic aspects. This is, of course, very important, and economic diplomacy is very important, but it would be a tragedy for the country to not try to enforce its national interests in the field of classical diplomacy and not try to present and explain our fate here in Central and Eastern Europe to the world, as it is part of diplomacy. Of course, in addition to the analytical institute, the question arises whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, has secret service tools. You can ask me what the Secret Service has to do with foreign affairs. There are many, especially in today's world, when a country is being attacked not primarily on the surface, but by attacks below the surface using secret service tools and various devices that can be classified into the soft power category, which can only be protected by secret service tools. That's why I don't understand why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't dispo over the Information Office, why it's gone somewhere else, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and so our country have no shields in a war that seems to be swept away. It is clear that the attacks that are taking place in Hungary, and which are completely unprepared for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are not only affecting this government, they are damaging not only this government, but also the entire country and our entire nation. So it's very important that we not only croak after the events, but also try to come up with a strategy. It would be very good if this were to be reflected in the draft budget, and in this sense this government could present an external diplomatic strategy to our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-146	Thank you very much. After a two-minute speech by Congressman, we now have two minutes of the floor, but first the government has applied again, so I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-147	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond briefly, briefly, to what you have raised. However, I would like to start by saying that I thanked most of the contributions, because the Member pointed out real problems. In the last 25 years, Hungarian foreign policy has been subject to a number of criticisms, some of which are rightly made to correct them every day in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. By the way, it is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, as the Member said, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade for six months now; you are dealing with Hungarian foreign policy on a daily basis, so I recommend this change to your attention, which is what our ministry has been calling it for several months now. Let me start with the criticism, Congressman, that classical diplomacy is in the background of foreign economic interest. This debate has been held several times between the walls of this House and in other forums, so I would like to emphasise our well-known position that this is not the case. So it is merely, honourable Member, that the national external economic interest which has been in the background of the so-called classic diplomatic tasks and considerations in recent years is given much more scope during the current foreign policy and foreign affairs course than before. I think that precisely because of the geopolitical changes that are extremely intense and deeply affecting Hungary, it is the clear recognition and recognition that we need to transform it, we need to make our external economic and foreign affairs system more flexible and, above all, we need to devote our resources to Hungary's position globally in a growing competitive situation, in an increasing competitive position. In the past, the structures were not built, or, even if their germs were, they did not have the capacity to ensure that Hungary's economic interest was effectively reflected either in the Far East or in the closer regions of the world. This work is in practice now, we are laying the foundations for the structure, and I think that soon we can expect substantial results from the new system. What the Member said about the transformations in the early '90s, I must agree more or less, indeed, with our national advocacy over the last 25 years, I think it can be said that he left something to be desired. Does it have to be this one? Is it reflected in the same budget? the significantly increased assets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade ensure that we change. Congressman, you can be sure that every day we go to work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to promote national interests in both economic and, if you like, classical diplomatic terms. The establishment of the Institute of Foreign Affairs in 97 is not a modern story, it has been almost 20 years now, but precisely because of the lack of stable analytical and foreign policy analytical capacity in Hungary over the last 25 years, which could analyse and display aspects of this specific field across governments, the reconstruction of the Institute of Foreign Affairs and Trade is due to this recognition. You can see, Mr President, that the 2015 budget is signing more than HUF 154 million for this purpose, so we are aware of this deficiency and we are trying to remedy it. As regards the issue of inefficiencies, Mr President, you said that you expressed as a criticism that if you do not see a Ministry of Foreign Affairs operating on a daily basis, it is a detrimental or harmful phenomenon. I would argue with that, so it is a virtue for a State Department in many ways that if there is no political battles on a daily basis, it is at the heart of daily political communication. Of course, we try to produce spectacular results, we try to be spectacularly on the scene, but the fact that Hungarian foreign policy is not the central theme of daily communication, daily political dialogue, I think it shows that things are going well, because in the field of foreign policy, the communication of turbulence usually takes place. [[18.50]] And the primary task of foreign policy is that? Perhaps we agree on that, Your Honour? To ensure the conditions of a country's peaceful operation abroad. If they're insured, there's no storms, there's no news. So I think we have a debate here. We have made a fundamental paradigm shift on the part of the Ministry in this area, if we also want to significantly strengthen the economic aspects of the national policy objectives. For whatever noble principles we are talking about, whatever sublime words are spoken about Hungarian communities living outside the border, no matter how many symbolic and emotional gestures we take, if the economic foundations of Hungarian life beyond the border are not given, and the mother country has a significant role to play in creating these foundations, then I think that a fundamental aspect of our national policy is missing. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is working on it intensively? And can I list the results? How can we offer our fellow countrymen across the border as much economic opportunities as possible for practical life as possible? Again? It is an important element of survival, residence and identity preservation, because obviously we are also talking about existential issues. There is no discussion between us about the transcendence of the monopolar world order. Of course, a multipolar world order is emerging or has already been developed; these processes are still taking place and the current world order is fluid in this sense. Much more radical and intensifying changes take place than ever before, at least since the end of the Cold War. We are aware of this, we are constantly watching this, we are analysing it, and the foreign policy strategy, the whole Eastern Opening, feeds on this recognition that in a new world order, standing on one foot does not work. We need to stand on more feet, maintain relations with more regions on a daily basis, build economic relations and go beyond the paradigm that Hungary's international activity and stability must be based only on the transatlantic relations system west of us. In this way, we have opened up the spectrum of our economic activity extremely wide. The Member is aware that from the Middle East to the Far East, from Latin America to Black Africa, we open consulates, we open embassies, we open trading houses, we seek to explore these areas for the Hungarian economy, which have been removed from the attention of Hungarian politics in the last 20-25 years, because all capacities have been committed to transatlantic integration, quite rightly. This task, however, was carried out by the Hungarian diplomacy, and we can regroup the resources thus released for economic networking in the eastern direction. Once again, not neglecting the Western connection system. If there is anything to talk about in this regard, it is a significant increase, a significant step forward in our western diplomatic presence. It is enough to mention, Congressman, that we are opening two Consulates in Germany over the next few weeks, in Düsseldorf and in Stuttgart, but I would also like to say further representations. So the opening of the East is in no way incompatible with the intensive care of our Western relations. Mr President, you must know the numbers that support our connection to the German economy. German companies provide jobs for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, we carry out a quarter of our commercial traffic with Germany, there is more than 20 billion euros of direct German capital investment in Hungary. I could give you a list of numbers. It is unrealistic to assume that building an eastern link would imply neglecting Western relations that have already been established, and what is more, Western economic networking is taking place with unprecedented intensity. Honourable Congressman, With regard to the effectiveness of our foreign affairs system as a whole, this is also a point where we still have a lot of work to do. It's brave of me to say that everything here is all right and that the system works with sufficient efficiency. I think we need to find a flexible operational structure that is more cost-effective than before. It is true that Hungary is a large diplomatic network; if you look at the countries in the area, except for one or two exceptions, it is the largest. This has a huge potential to physically appear in many countries of the world through our representations, some 116 of our foreign representations. At the same time, we need to find a way to effectively operate this large infrastructure. We have to forget the paradigm, perhaps valid until today, that the diplomatic presence means either a full-fledged embassy presence or nothing. There are a lot of temporary solutions between the two. The Singapore you mentioned is an excellent example. The travelling ambassador for Singapore Hungary is an excellent person who shows up every 3-4 months, and we see him practically more than the resident ambassadors who live in Budapest and stay in Budapest on a continuous basis. This is a good example of how to maintain relatively cost-effective intensive relations with a country that lies thousands of miles away from our country, possibly tens of thousands of miles away. This really requires a new approach, but the Hungarian foreign affairs leadership is on board to find these flexible tools. So it is possible to employ a traveling ambassador, to associate with allied states with our representations, to use a so-called laptop diplomat, who is representing the Hungarian state, using the infrastructure of an ally. So there are a lot of soft or flexible ways of diplomatic presence. Congressman, thank you again for the suggestions. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you to adopt the external action budget in its present form. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-21-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I'll give word to Congressman Louis Korózs in two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-149	Dear House, There's only one thing I want to talk to you about. I was listening to the Secretary of State in the field of health. Look, I was the one who said that I thought we needed fresh money for health care. I hope that you will think about this and, let's say, make the NAV work more efficient. It is widely said in this country that the NAV has not taken nearly a thousand billion forints in connection with corruption. Whether this thousand billion or not is true, I don't know, but I'm sure: if a journalist can follow through with two days' effort how, for example, the sugar tax is to be lured away in this country, then there's no magic to find out what they're doing with a pallet of sugar! How to travel towards Miskolc, Košice, Poprad, Bratislava, Mosonmagyaróvár or Győr. And when it's very noticeable that they don't even unload the sugar, but they're always officially buying it, and they're constantly reclaiming the VAT, and in order not to be suspicious, they even travel the same sugar to Barcelona, so I'm telling you, there's some fresh money to get to health care. Secretary of State, Facebook is full of a message right now. The government wants to close the private pension funds that are still on their feet on 1 January. There's about 60,000 people in there. Forints 3000 billion have been applauded in the last three and a half years without a crooked penny. And you don't know where he is, because what he was meant to do wasn't done. These 60,000 people are the most determined. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Secretary of State, if you go back to the Ministry, tell Minister Varga to start packing. These 60,000 people are going to burn down the Ministry! [[Tamás Vargha: Are we threatening you?]] [[19.00]]
u2014-11-21-150	After the two-minute comment, I almost gave the floor to the Member, Mr Bárándy, who had applied as a pre-notified speaker, who had to be asked for patience again, because the secretary of state, Mr Banai Péter Benő, has applied and I have to give the floor to him in accordance with the house rules. Secretary of State, please.
u2014-11-21-151	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I must say that Mr President, you can vote in favour of next year's budget bill, because one of the problems you have mentioned is that next year's draft budget bill is about to be resolved. You mentioned the travel of the goods. Both the justification for the 2015 Budget Bill and the related amendment of this year's Budget Act introduce the goods control system to filter out these VAT frauds. The reason why I mention this year's budget proposal is because the system that provides the IT background to eliminate the travel of goods and thereby reduce VAT fraud will be built in excess of HUF 8 billion. I must also remind everyone that this is not the only step to whiten the resources in the grey or black zone of 100 or 1000 billion people who have been mentioned. I think the government was brave when it took a serious step forward with new tools, such as the introduction of the online cash register system. In this year's budget, we calculated a HUF 150 billion item, and I can see from the treasury figures that this was not an excessive estimate. I could therefore list the list of measures, but, on the basis of Mr President, I confirm once again: yes, the government is making progress in this area too, so the Member is banging open gates. As far as the private pension fund system is concerned, there was a long debate on how well and how effectively these funds worked. I think that public data is more evidence that the introduction of a compulsory private pension fund system was not a good step, and I also think it is thoughtful that this system does not work in the vast majority of Western European countries. As far as the amount of money, which is voluntary, on the basis of their decision to move back to the state of the state pension system, is concerned, the annual accounts of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund clearly show what the state used the money for. To reduce public debt and to fill the holes in the pension fund in 2011. So there is the use of money, and I say that this has also contributed to Hungary being one of the three countries in the European Union where public debt is constantly falling. I think that what I must also highlight is that we all know that many private pension funds have achieved a negative return. The amount paid there was reduced. What does that mean? Retirement income would have been reduced. [[Lajos Korózs: That is not true, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Congressman, please take a look at the public records. Many people have chosen that instead they need the security of the public pension system, and in recent years, it has been shown that old-age pensions have not only preserved their real value, but, for example, the real value of pensions has also increased thanks to the reduction in wages. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-21-152	Dear Parliament, I would remind you that we are in the two-minute debate, so I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, who has applied for this round, for two minutes, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-153	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I find the attitude of Lajos Korózs outrageous. Dear fellow Member, We know you. [[Lajos Korózs: I know you too, Miklós!]] Because in 2004, you were a member of the government. As Secretary of State for Labour in 2009, your... [[Lajos Korózs: I was never Secretary of State for Labour!]] ? Minister of State of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour, my dear fellow Member. What you said with your last sentence is outrageous. He's teasing people, and they introduced themselves because in 2010 they left ruins in the country. [[Anita Herring: Oh, my God!]] Hungary has been taxed. I remember that in 2008 János Veres announced here that we would turn to the IMF and set the world free for us at that time. They destroyed the country, and you're inciting me to burn down the Treasury Department? ! I find this outrageous, and I refuse, and I ask you to reduce yourself a little and look at yourself. Thank you. [[Lajos Korózs: Unlike you, Miklós, I am calm.]]
u2014-11-21-154	Thank you very much. We will now return to the group of speakers that have been announced and give the floor to Member Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am always happy to wait, all the more so, because it is a rare phenomenon when the government and the pro-government representatives take part in the debate and respond to our suggestions and speeches. It's a refreshing exception, and I'm just happy for you. I hope that there will be more debate where I will have to wait for the speech because the government is asking for the floor in the parliamentary debate on such a regular basis. First of all, I would like to say two sentences to the words of the last Member who spoke before me. One of the sentences is that Congressman Simon, we know you, too, but I think you wouldn't be pleased if I told you about where and what case? That's one of them. The other thing is that your speech was about as good as it was, I'm sure it wasn't any more than that. What you said about private pension funds, Mr. Secretary of State, I appreciate when someone uses the words well and cleverly, but what you said was about that. Because the private pension funds had HUF 3000 billion, and it's nowhere to be found, is it? It's a fact. It is also a fact, Mr Secretary, that you took over the debt in 2010; now that is not reduced. Well, if he had been involved, and it was used to reduce his debt, then? correct me if I'm wrong? About 10 percent of the government debt should have been reduced. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right.]] He's at a higher level than you've taken over. Then, Mr. Secretary, what did we gain by stealing 3000 billion forints of private pension savings? Because I think it's nothing in the world. What you're saying is a game with words, let me say that. Is it that the Prime Minister used to be? correct me if I misjudge the term? You promised individual bills, where is it now? Where are the millions of people credited from the private pension fund practically nationalized by the state? Where's that 3000 billion forint? What's the use of taking that away from people? Because what's in it for you, and don't take it personally, Secretary of State, because obviously I'm not thinking about you, but you're pretty much able to figure out who I'm thinking about, so what the benefit of these people was, I understand, but that society and people have nothing to say, but I can tell you for sure. Dear Secretary of State, With regard to private pension funds, it could have been considered that if this system had been replaced by another, it would have been fair to give people the money they saved there, or at least credit them as you promised. But none of it happened, and the other didn't happen. The other thing you said about VAT fraud, Secretary of State. You know, I think that so far, and now, neither the tools of the NAV are missing to detect VAT fraud, but the will, Mr. Secretary of State. The will is missing, you know? ! [[19.10]] I think these numbers could have been better if you, if the NAV had taken that 1000 billion forint from your fidesz friends, had collected it from the oligarchs who took this money from the joint. Then we would probably move ahead, and then probably in certain chapters this HUF 1000 billion could appear as a positive amount. And maybe it could be used for health care, maybe it could be used for education, maybe less of the social care system would be taken if you had taken it, but you didn't take it. Isn't that why, Mr. Secretary? And don't take it personally again? Not because the government didn't take him in, but because they didn't have the means, because there was no will; because the whole state system is corrupted; because corruption is institutionalized; because they see this not only in Hungary? Just think of the crowds who have gone out into the street, tens and hundreds of thousands? but also in other countries. Your Honour, Secretary of State, is the president of the NAV banned for corruption? I would like to stress it, because of corruption! ? from the United States, and this woman is still in her place, not only her shame, but also the shame of the government, and through this, unfortunately, I must say, the shame of the country as well. Therefore, the lack of these funds is not because you do not have the means to collect it, but because the government and the senior management supervising the NAV have no intention of collecting these funds. If I remember correctly? If I remember correctly? So, some of this has already been investigated, and now it's a follow-up? This is how it's gonna be. And it also turned out that the announcements that the Prime Minister classified as a piece of paper might then have been, in fact, rather serious documentation, and that had already been made much earlier to the NAV; however, the NAV has not done anything in the world. So when the Secretary of State says that you are doing everything you can in the matter of VAT fraud, it is simply not true, it is not true as it is. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the Justice Chapter and the related chapters, and I regret that the Government is not represented on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, but perhaps one of the State Secretary will be able to respond to these points as well. However, let me highlight one thing first; I have not done so far in budgetary debates, but I will do it now. In the eyes of a lawyer, there are things in this budget that I cannot ignore. I can't just ignore how much money they're pulling out of education. I cannot leave without saying that the financial assistance provided to municipalities for social care will be reduced by 40%. Can't I just ignore that? It doesn't matter what we call it. That basically they're raising the food tax to 33 percent. I cannot ignore the fact that the child's allowance is reduced by HUF 6.5 billion, the family allowance is reduced by HUF 13 billion. Is this where I'm going to point out the chapter budget figures that they're employees of the IRS? But correct me, Mr. Secretary, if I'm wrong about that? They can receive a HUF 25 billion premium according to the budget next year. This is interesting, because if you compare it to the numbers in the Justice Department now, then, let's say, the prosecution doesn't have a total budget of HUF 40 billion. Forty billion forints will not be paid to the prosecution in general, compared to 25 billion forints will be paid as a bonus to the APEH managers and the APEH workers? I sincerely hope, Mr Secretary, that I have read this very badly in the budget and that you will correct what I am saying and say that there is no basis for this number that I have just said to you. One more thing? referring back to what you said in your speech about health? Mr. Secretary of State. He said that much had been done to improve health care, and here he raised anti-smoking measures. Well, Mr. Secretary, to be honest, maybe you don't mean that, do you? So the fact that the trade fairs were distributed to the mates does not mean that the harmful effects of smoking have been reduced, and no indicator can justify that, none of them. What I do know is that, by the way, recordings can prove that these concessions have been distributed to your party members and sympathizers, and that otherwise this is not over, because they are making further proposals on how this market can be distributed even more leaning towards you, but that this has nothing to do with health care in the world, we can say for sure. I can't judge the rest of your claims because I don't know how to do it, but if the rest are so well founded, I'm not reassured, Mr. Secretary. President of the Republic: I don't want to spend much time here, the numbers don't really change. I would like to point out one thing: when there is a need for such restrictions, which this budget contains, does that really have symbolic significance? And I'm genuinely interested in the reason why this has to be raised? that the President of the Republic's protocol expenditures will rise from HUF 276 million to HUF 355 million. These are not big figures in the budget, even I know that as a lawyer, you know, when we subtract money from health care, education, and it doesn't work well anyway, don't you think there's a bad message that, by the way, protocol costs will be raised by HUF 80 million in the President's Office alone, or that HUF 73 million will be allocated to the President of the Republic's public offerings? You'd rather offer it to one of the hospitals, we'd probably do better with it. Turning to the budget figures of the Court chapter: there is little advantage, honourable Members, that the National Court Office is led by the wife of a Fidesz Member. There may be one advantage: budget support has not been reduced here. I remember when during Paul Solt's time, during the first Orbán government, the Prime Minister and the President of the Supreme Court fought, and then the budgetary support of the courts was reduced by half. Now this, thank God, will not happen, and perhaps even a few hundred million forints will be spent, two hundred and forty-some million forints will still be devoted to investments and renovations, let's say, in addition to last year's budget figures, but nothing else will appear there in addition. Ladies and gentlemen, When you say and rightly say that one of the most important things in the judiciary is speeding up procedures and quality justice, then everyone who is a specialist in this area, including the President of the Curia, says that there is only one thing that could really improve this area: if the judges had more assistance. At the last hearing, President Darák said that, but I can tell you that he said that as an evidence, because everyone in the business thinks so, and so do I. Compared to this, a single extra penny is not intended to increase this assistance in court. You know, of course, this is usually true of each area, that legislative amendments can achieve certain results, but it is still possible to achieve the highest result if we give more money to that area. So the speeding up of procedures should not be achieved by decimating the guarantee system, but by giving a little more money to the judiciary, and I would like to stress that they are not so much money. The total annual court budget is no HUF 90 billion, so it's all there. In other words, if you could add a little bit to this, we could achieve a great result in this area; I would suggest that the present representatives of the government consider this. [[19.20]] I can say the same with regard to the prosecutor's office, where the person of the Attorney General is obviously a guarantee that nothing will decrease in this chapter or increase. Here, too, some money is spent on investment costs, but that the assistance of prosecutors, which would also serve the speeding up of proceedings and the interests of quality justice, will not be spent a penny extra money, but it is quite certain. The figures relating to the Ministry of Justice, I must say, are quite difficult to judge, because it has been given a completely different function, since the Prime Minister's Office takes over a number of tasks from the Ministry of Justice, but the wallet receives countless other functions, so I can't tell whether the design is correct or wrong. The only thing I would suggest is that so far the Ministry's budget has not been well planned, since in 2012 the Ministry's actual expenditure was HUF 366 billion, compared with HUF 238 billion in 2013 and HUF 294 billion in 2013. I hope you hit the numbers better in this year's budget. Which is still on the subject, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand, but, Mr Secretary, tell me this once, I have been telling you for years, and I have never been given an answer, so I really do care. That if we see that the compensation provided for under the Law on Criminal Procedure is always higher, significantly higher in reality than the allocation, then why cannot the figures be adapted to reality? I really don't understand why. For several years now, if I remember correctly, it is set at 120 million forints, and the reality always comes out around 300-320 million forints. But I can say the same thing about legal aid, where 115 million forints are now counted for the second year. Now it is finally raised to 182 million forints, there is indeed a slight shift here, but the reality is 250 million forints. I don't understand why, if you can see that this is it, you can't adjust the numbers to reality. I don't want to think that there's any trickery in the budget here, because, once again, I don't know much about this subject, but I've never been given an answer to why these numbers can't cover reality once in a while. The same can be said for the compensation of the victims of crime, where the planned expenditure is now HUF 100 million, that was it in the previous year, and there was a real edition of this chapter of HUF 140 million. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the criticisms I have made of the chapters on justice and related to it, I think that I could be the subject of a speech by the opposition in almost any budgetary debate, because I say so? And I'm going to make this very positive? That there is no such amazing problem here as elsewhere in the budget chapters. However, once again, as a lawyer, I must point out that, if you will, this area, the prosecutors' office, the chapter of the courts is a curio in this regard. Somewhere else, however, there are enormous problems. And those criticisms that I have made sharp, I have not done at the level of political lozunges, but I do so honestly, Mr. Secretary of State, honourable representatives of governments and pro-government representatives. I sincerely hope that the events of the past period will affect you in the sense that at least these harmful trends will be dampened a little. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Lajos Korózs: Yay! ? Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-21-156	Thank you very much. As a spokesperson, the representative of Jobbik, Mr Csaba Gyüre, would come if he had not been pressed by the government's representative, Mr Banai Secretary of State. I am only saying this to ask Mr. Congressman for a moment of patience, and to give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I was forced to press a button because I heard wordings, statements that I believe are based on incorrect information, at least. Allow me, Congressman, to respond in order of what has been said. The first key question is what benefit has it had for people to withdraw from the compulsory private pension fund into the public system. The benefit is the security of their pension, which is enshrined in the basic law after 2010. If they had stayed in the private pension scheme, a financial process that we saw in 2008-2009 could have taken away a significant part of their pension. I think that this cannot be argued, because that was the pension system. So the majority of those in the private pension fund decided? have many experienced that their payments do not produce returns but decrease? That you're going back into the state system. That was the benefit of it. As far as money is concerned, I repeat: public figures show what this money was used for. With regard to public debt, Congressman, if you question my words, I respectfully ask you to look at the public statistical figures of the European Union. In terms of public debt, the ratio to GDP is what investors pay attention to, to which a legal sanction applies or does not apply. Unfortunately, according to these figures, the Hungarian government debt increased radically after 2002 and increased from 51-52 percent to over 80 percent. In the middle of the 2000s, Europe was characterised by prosperity and the EU's average debt decreased. What happened next? Again, Congressman, please look at the public numbers. What happened? Hungary was able to break out of this trap. I think we should all be proud of this. He broke out of this trap by reducing his public debt, bringing the deficit below 3 percent, unemployment falling, employment rising. And yes, the results of this are perceived by people. The government debt, i.e. the government debt-to-GDP ratio, has decreased. The nominal amount is, of course, increasing, and in this Member is right, but as long as a budget is characterised by a deficit, expenditure is, by far, higher than revenue, nominal government debt is increasing. Investors are therefore not looking at nominal government debt, but at debt-to-GDP debt, which shows how the country's debt is going compared to its economic strength. I report that the country's economic potential and economic strength have increased more than the nominal rate of government debt. That is why it is now much cheaper to finance our public debt than it was a few years ago. As far as VAT fraud is concerned, there is no more evidence that the government is determined and wants to change the current situation of money in the grey or black zone than that it dared to introduce an online cash register system or to put a stop to the travel of goods and proposed or proposed in this year's budget and next year's budget. Congressman, you told me not to take this personally. I don't take your point personally, so I'm asking you not to take what I'm saying personally. An educated, skilled lawyer, I think, from me, who has a limited legal degree? I have some legal qualifications, too? Don't take it personally when I tell you that accusations and accusations can't be confused. As far as the president of the NAV is concerned, which is strictly formulated with regard to institutionalized corruption, let us separate the accusations and accusations. Congressman, as a lawyer, you know exactly how different your legal situation is to that of the accused president of the NAV, as, say, the former vice-president who is currently under house arrest, for whom the prosecutor's office is investigating how and how he was able to make repayments. I repeat, let's distinguish between accusations and accusations. [[19.30]] As to the specific points made by the Member, allow me to refer to numbers beyond words. Education expenses. I would like you to look at page 261 of the budget bill for next year, where we can see the expenditure of a consolidated cash flow in the priority area of the central subsystem. We can see how educational expenditures are going, and we can see through a number of tables how judicial spending is going. I don't see a decrease in these numbers. As regards the accuracy of planning, as long as there is a budget, no government or government in any country will be able to accurately hit the budget figures, since macroeconomic processes, growth, employment, normative expenditure or revenue can only be prognosised. I trust that next year's budget bill will also justify the government in this respect, and in this respect we also see that the overall government plans are being implemented and even overachieved. Congressman, I'm sure there'll be a 100-200 million difference in the budget we've adopted, and I'm glad it's just like that. And I'm hoping there won't be hundreds of billion-dollar differences like that? Do I have to say it factually again? It's been over the past decade. I think that's the serious question. We've seen budgets where the deficit is double what we're looking for. With regard to recent years, I am confident that we have been able to improve the practice so far. In that, I must say our determination both for the Member and for the Parliament, that where we can improve the accuracy of planning, we will do so, and in this respect we will also prepare the 2016 budget bill as well as our best possible knowledge. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-21-158	Thank you very much. Mr Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, will be the speaker who has been announced. You have the floor.
u2014-11-21-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to comment on parts of the justice chapter. A democratic principle in Hungary? and not only in Hungary, but in all countries since the Enlightenment? separation of branches of power. Three branches of power, the independence of which is obviously one of the most fundamental things, then we can only talk about democracy. In this case, I would like to talk about the judicial power, the third branch of power, and the budget chapter of this budget section, and in parallel the budget chapter of the prosecutor's office. The independence of workers, judges and prosecutors in this field of justice is very important. Judicial independence is a very important principle. Why is that important? It is very important because judges, prosecutors, are obliged to act without any influence. A fair and impartial attitude towards clients should be demonstrated. In addition, all judges and prosecutors are obliged to refrain from any manifestation which would undermine trust in judicial proceedings or judicial authority. They have an important obligation of confidentiality and, where appropriate, they handle classified information, thus increasing their load. In general, they should not be able to express an opinion or to give an opinion on pending cases. In addition to their work, administrative measures must be taken. They must be involved in the professional education of their replacements, in the teaching of authors and secretaries. They go to training courses all the time. In addition to working hours, you can be ordered to watch and stand by. They may not carry out other gainful activities, with some exceptions. They have very strict conflict of interest rules. Obviously, their participation in politics is also limited. So there are a lot of things that limit them. For all these reasons, what is it that they receive in response? Obviously, it's a certain benefit, which is their salary, their work, their appreciation. It is very important that the right wage, the right benefit, be balanced with what we expect of them. CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. It is also stipulated by law that the judge shall be entitled to remuneration, in accordance with the weight of his or her profession and responsibility, which shall ensure his or her independence. This remuneration should allow the acquisition, retention of well-trained lawyers and the provision of a standard of living for judges. The National Judicial Association notes, on the contrary, that the current wage is not suitable for the smooth maintenance of judicial work. Their lack of judicial wages is spectacular both in Europe and in the European Union. If we look at the statement that has recently been drawn up in the European Union, which analyses the salaries of judges and prosecutors, then we will receive shocking data. It compares European wages, the wages of justice workers in the EU States, the wages of judges and prosecutors. We will see that Hungary is the last place, in the last place, Romania, Bulgaria and any state in the area. Let's just look at the figures: in Austria, the salary is threefold, in Bulgaria, the salary of judges is 10 percent higher, in Romania, the salary of judges is 60 percent higher than in Hungary, and in the same way the salary of prosecutors is usually the same in all EU countries. So when I talk about it, it's both wages. In the Czech Republic, judges are also paid nearly double, and even in Russia, as a non-EU state, they have higher salaries. It is nearly 60 percent higher in Poland, almost 60 percent higher in Croatia, and two and a half times the salary in Estonia. So, in our own area, judges, prosecutors are far behind our own territory, and we stand last. Is that why I have tabled an amendment to the budget proposal in which I propose that judges, prosecutors and judges working in Curia should take place by 30 percent? So these chapters have a personal budget? 30 percent wage development. If we look at this and add it to the current payments, and assume that in the other countries, there is no increase in salaries now in the next 2015 budget, we can see that in Hungary, in the case of 30 percent wage development, the Hungarian salary will be just ahead of Bulgarian salaries and will reach the level of Lithuanian salaries. So Hungary will come up from behind to third place with a 30% wage development. Of course, we can say that those who make the budget, yes, it is easy to say that we should raise wages, we should raise wages everywhere, we are lagging behind everywhere, but this is an important independent branch of power. At the time when the Constitution was negotiated and the Fundamental Law was adopted, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also made a proposal or amendment to determine the budget chapter of the courts and prosecutors, the size of the budget, so that at all times a percentage of the basic law is regulated, a percentage of the budget, so that the current Parliament is not able to determine in the budgetary law the salaries of judges and the benefits of the courts, because the independence of the courts, the independence of the judiciary, is at risk, since one of the powers, the legislative authority, is in financial control of the institution of the courts. So this can make the independence of the courts and judicial independence questionable. In order for the courts and prosecutors to be properly prepared for proper replacement, there is a need for adequate wages, and obviously then we could also discuss that it is also important that judges should not be corrupted, worth bribes, accept anything, and not talk about it anymore, but that is why it would be very important. [[19.40]] If we look at the change in the basic salary of judges and prosecutors, we see that after practically 2002 and after the change of government in 2002, the salaries of the judges have been raised in three steps and have practically not been touched since then. There were a few very small wage developments, the last apparently in 2012, when the basic salary increased, but we have to add that the 13th month's salary was then withdrawn and increased as much as the 13th month's salary was reduced. Overall, we are actually talking about a 0.5 percent actual wage development. And then we can't say that it would be a real wage increase, because inflation has not been followed by the remuneration of judges and prosecutors. So in real terms in these years, the salaries of judges and prosecutors have decreased significantly over the last ten years. And while we're at it, let's take a step inside the court system. When a judge sits there and makes use of the experts acting in the course of the procedure on professional questions, we see that these experts will also receive much more in hourly rates than the judges who will make the decision who will make the judgment. So he who is at the highest professional peak receives the lowest remuneration, because the independent bailiffs, who will be there at the end of the justice system, are also working at a higher hourly rate, they too have a much higher income. So it is important that, in order to equalise this inequality, somewhere at least at this moment, at least beyond inflation, because these wages are very behind us, we are raising them at least as much. That is why I would ask for this amendment to be supported by the majority of governments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-160	Thank you very much. After Mr President's speech, a two-minute comment is possible. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy for two minutes, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm not gonna be able to respond to everything Mr. Secretary said, but what can take two minutes is. First of all, in the chapters where I mentioned that the budget was very underdesigned, there has been about the same actual expenditure for years, so there is no need to be a great fortune in figuring out how much it will be, because it has been the same for years, it is always designed for a fraction of it. That is why I am interested in why, based on the experience of recent years, realistic figures should not be given. The other, Mr. Secretary, and I would very much like to clarify that right now, yes, I know the difference between the accusation and the accusation. You mentioned two cases. I'd say two things, three things. One is that it is not good for corrupt politicians to steal, but it is a tragedy if government operations are based on institutionalized corruption. That's one of them. My second point is that I also know, Mr. Secretary of State, the difference between the charge and the judgment, and I would like to remind you that in the politically motivated criminal matters in which the prosecution has prosecuted, the left-wing politicians who are being accused by the prosecution are being dismissed. And my third point in this round, Mr. Secretary of State, is that you know that there is a word, and that is not a word I invented, but a legitimate word called integrity. And, you know, Secretary of State, some state leaders not only have to be unpunished, they have to be not only accused, but they have to be impeccable. This is precisely the lack of the tens of thousands of people who have demanded the resignation of the NAV president, because since 1990 we have not known of a state leader who has been banned from the United States for corruption. If nothing else, Mr Secretary, at least your integrity to the NAV president is questioned, which should result in you resigning. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-162	We will return to the list of speakers that have been announced, and I will give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable fellow Members, Well, many of us are no longer here, there are five opposition representatives, and among the ranks of the government, only the State Secretarys are fighting the current opposition. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Five-five, parities. The truth is on our side.]] Yes, the ratio is still equal, but it wouldn't hurt to have a representative of the ruling parties here during the debate. But we're used to it, of course. Well, I don't really have a lot of time, but I hope I will have time to talk about a very important proposal, the amendment proposed by Jobbik, a proposal that was very strongly formulated in the party's election campaign in the spring, and which affects an extremely wide range of people, virtually all men in Hungary who are under 65 years old. What it is, I will get to it, but first I would like to do a little introduction, because perhaps the introduction also revealed that this is a matter of pensions. And indeed, we will be talking about the pension issue that has been treated as a stepchild in recent years, or we can say that from the year 2009 onwards, a period has started in Hungary's history when pensioners or pensioners are gradually in a worse situation, under the influence of various government measures. I would just like to point out a few, because there has been a debate here on pensions, and here the Jobbik is in a little bit of a central position, because from here they tell us what one government has done to pensioners or pensioners, and from the other side the same thing is said. Yeah, well, that's the thing. There were two types of governments, both of which weakened the position of pensioners, the possibilities of pensioners. Where did the story start? Everyone knows, I think it started when we managed to raise the retirement age from 62 to 65 years. This was during the socialist period, under the government of Bajna, and then the next major blow, obviously an extremely sensitive blow, was the removal of the 13th month pension. There were many small, other measures, but I would like to highlight them. Then came the Fidesz administration, and then, as has already been said here, suddenly disappeared a private pension fund of HUF 3000 billion, which really disappeared. It has disappeared between the mazes of public debt and, as has already been said here, and, quite rightly so, it has not reduced the level of public debt at all. This has not stopped the trend, since the early retirement pension system has also ceased in Hungary, and this pension system is now being permanently implemented on 31 December. Then it is also important that the employer's pension contribution was also abolished by the government, which was the basis for the pension system. It is now called a social contribution tax, which can be spent on everything, by the way, the government spends, while previously pension contributions could only be spent on the payment of a pension. It was a very important legal security. That's the history, I think everyone knows that. From this, it is clear that no matter what colorful government has been in Hungary in the last six to seven years, pensioners have not benefited from this, by keeping the pension in real terms at the level where, say, it was last year or the year before, it means that they were not worse off at the moment of retirement. Well, this process, we believe, must be stopped. It must be stopped, because we cannot go without saying that if the pension system continues to be broken down in this way, there will be hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary who are over 60-65 years old. We know that there are two reasons why the pension system is being cut down and placed in a worse and worse situation, basically a demographic that I do not want to talk about right now, because this is a lot of questions, Jobbik has already made a thousand proposals on this, and there is a weak economic situation, which is the result of all these short-term measures that have taken place in this area over a few years. I really want to deal with these short-term things, and we want to change that. How? So that once the early retirement pension scheme in the pension system has ceased once, if the possibility of a service pension is taken away from future pensioners, then it is possible for men to retire after 40 years of employment. This is our very strong position because men deserve to retire after 40 years of employment. They deserve it, because unfortunately, the fastest number of men in Hungary is lost around 60 years. Perhaps there are only one or two countries in Europe where fewer elderly people live than in Hungary. [[19.50]] In Hungary, as Mary Kopp wrote? and did I include this in the justification for the amendment proposal? , about 64 percent of men live to the age of 65, while in Sweden it accounts for 83 percent. It also shows that Hungarian men wear out. They wear out because they have to do more work at the same time for extremely low salaries, and generally under much worse working conditions than in, say, Sweden or any Western European state. That is why we say that one or two or three or a few years would be appropriate for men after they retire, so that they can spend such a period in peace and tranquility. As a result, we proposed the first increase of the Pension Insurance Fund of HUF 15 billion, indicating that we would like to start designing this system. Of course, we are aware that it is not possible to introduce everyone into this system at the same time, but we say that in jobs where there is dangerous or increased use of the human body, there must be an opportunity to retire after forty years of employment as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! I don't think anyone can seriously think that, for example, a 65-year-old paramedic on the fourth floor can take a 140-pound patient down to the ambulance on a gurney. These are the impossible. However, the current government seems to think so, since there is no possibility for a 64 - year - old paramedic. Of course, I have to add that this category doesn't exist, because in 55 years, a paramedic has lost his waist, and from then on he will be entitled to a disability pension or some kind of early retirement benefit, if there is any. So there's no such thing, because it's physically impossible. Obviously, no one thinks that this can be expected from a Hungarian man or any Hungarian man. And a number of such working groups could be listed. Here are the drivers who are said to have a much easier job today, so they do not need early retirement. Please, it may be easier to use the clutch in a modern bus, and it doesn't need the physical force it used to be, or the steering force, but when it took a strong physical force, a bus was only traveling at a speed of 40 to 50 kilometres on the roads with little traffic, but now it has to move at a speed of 90 to 100 to 120 kilometres. It is true that it is easier to drive physically, but it is much harder spiritually, because today there is much more traffic. Unfortunately, I only had time to draw your attention to this one suggestion. However, we would like the government to reconsider its actions so far and to create the opportunity for men to retire after forty years of employment. There are many other aspects of this, which, unfortunately, I do not have time to say, but I would ask the government to consider supporting this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-21-164	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your speech. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has applied. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would only respond to the part of your speech that is more closely linked to the budgetary law. In this debate, it may not be house-bound to respond to those that are generally subject to other laws. This government has indeed created a pension system that is self - sustaining. We said that we could pay pensions from pension contributions to all pensioners, and that we had to transform the system to make it stable. At that time Jobbik's position on mandatory private pension funds differed by about 180 degrees from the current one, since even in their electoral programme, they demanded the abolition of this central pillar. It's been a few years, and somehow the Jobbik has changed that position. But not just on this issue, because we have seen how Jobbik has been able to take turns on other important issues in four years. Well, since then, we have a pension fund that doesn't need to be filled, there are no holes in it, but every year it can cover its own expenses with its own income, there's no need for 400 billion forints of state aid every year in the budget law. Next year's law is also counting on inflation-following pensions, and pensions will rise by 1.8 percent next year, thus ensuring the value-proofness of pensions. However, in recent years, as inflation has in many cases been much lower than planned, there has been a 3-4 percent increase in real pensions for all pensioners, as if inflation had increased during the year, we would have increased the rate of pension increases, but if inflation had been lower than planned, then pensioners would have received it, as if they had won it. The correct economic policy of the government, which has kept inflation down, has had a double advantage for pensioners. In addition, while the Socialists took away the 13th month pension from pensioners in 2008-2009 following the IMF's instructions or ukase, thereby reducing the value of pensions? which has rarely been the case in the history of modern democracies that pensioners not only don't raise or even take away 8 percent of their pensions? Compared to that, we were able to save about a month's pension for pensioners. If on another side, not on the budget expenditure side, but on the price reduction side, we were able to leave this one-month pension amount with pensioners, which they could spend on themselves, not on the overhead costs. And the long-term sustainability of the pension system, as you said, Member, depends on the positive influence of population processes on the one hand. We have talked a lot about the fact that every year in this three-day debate, when there is a civil government, there is progress, there is no budget, there is no tax law that does not put families in a more favourable position during the civil government period than in the previous year. This could not be said for other governments. Moreover, it is the creation of jobs that we have spent much more on in this government cycle, whether in the work plan or in the public works programme. I think if you want a sustainable pension fund, maybe it would be good for Jobbik to think in these two directions. I think that we broadly agree on the demographic issue, and indeed the petition or proposal of the Three Princes, Three Queens Movement was accepted by all parliamentary parties in the previous term, and there was a national minimum on this issue, but I ask you to support the government's policy of creating jobs, whether in terms of public works or in terms of job creation, because it will provide a sustainable pension for everyone, now under 65, and therefore also for our generation. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-166	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your speech. Now you can make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-167	Thank you very much for the floor. We know that this two-thirds majority of government is not a socially sensitive government, it is not primarily in the interests of the people, but, as we have seen, it is primarily looking at economic interests, even in the environment. But in response, there are numbers in this budget that I think will knock out the fail-safe for all people with good sense. These include minus 36 billion of pre-age benefits or minus 13 billion of family allowances or minus 6.5 billion of children. You are cutting huge social costs, as you are saving more than 150 billion dollars on people with social spending, on people who are most in need of these benefits. And what is very, very interesting is that even job search support will be reduced, and you will spend 6 billion less on it. It's not enough that we see negative numbers in social expenditure, but even from people who lose their jobs, their jobs, they take money. But what is really the most outrageous number, and I think this has to be said several times: next year the government will spend nearly 120 billion forints on sport. The largest amount of this is the establishment of the National Olympic Center by HUF 44.2 billion, which is in itself more than the total budget of the National Rescue Service. I think these numbers are outrageous to all people. I don't understand how a budget like this can be submitted, even if you're not left-wing. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-168	Mr Retvár State Secretary has indicated that he wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-169	Thank you very much. The congresswoman forgot to add that the budget items of the National Rescue Service and helicopter rescue are greatly increased, with one HUF 500 million and the other HUF 400 million, so we spend much more to save. And you also forgot to tell me that we've replaced new ambulances with about 70 percent of the ambulances in the past, and we've set up 22 new rescue stations. So we have made progress in these areas. [[20.00]] I think you're sore about the stadium construction program because you had a secretary of state for youth and sport, who also became president of the party, who announced the stadium construction program in the same way, but you managed to get it to programme level and failed to implement it. If you say that stadium building is a sign of social insensitiveness, and the Hungarian Socialist Party has accepted a stadium building program, not the party, the then government, you have formulated a plan for this, and you say that if you build a stadium, you have no social sensitivity, then you are talking about the social sensitivity of your own party. We don't think so, by the way. The fact that there has been 3.9 percent economic growth in Hungary over the past period is due, among other things, to the recovery of construction and similar large public investments. And what you're talking about is that there is a need for social or other austerity in a country where, unlike in the Bajnai-Gyurcsány period, when the country's economic production has decreased by 7 percent, it is growing by 3.9 percent, and in the next budget period we expect an increase of 2-3 percent, then there is no need for retaliation anywhere. You know very well that in the social register, if you look at the composition of that part more precisely, and if you consider that public work is essentially a social tool to get out of hopelessness, out of poverty, we are spending a lot more on social expenditure. You know as well as I do that a man's aid costs a third of what it costs to create a job for a man. And we have spent a great deal of time on the latter. You are well aware of the fact that there are 16 billion more in the budget for various social services, child welfare services and social services, and 2 billion more in the budget for improving the institutional system. In particular, I ask that what is said about the family allowance and the child is that no matter how much this amount will be reduced next year: no, the same amount will be paid to everyone in the family allowance and child benefit as they have received this year. Is there no doubt that in Hungary, although the rate of population loss is decreasing? For the first time since the '80s, population loss decreased in the last eight months, three thousand more children were born than a year ago, and that means more than three percent decrease in population loss? However, it is decreasing, so fewer children will obviously benefit from fewer family allowances. But that does not mean that any child's family allowance would be reduced, but, unfortunately, there are still fewer children. Believe me, if more children will be born next year than the number of children who die in Hungary, we will be happy to increase this item immediately. But we're gonna provide everyone with the permanent benefits so far. And you know that families will also be in a very favourable position at tax relief level next year. We've left 700 billion forints with the families over the past four and a half years. Today, an average Hungarian family can manage 20,000 forints more, with 20,000 forints more than they had in 2010. That's how much ahead of the Hungarian families every month. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-170	Come on, please. The thing is, some people have time, but they don't have representatives, some people have representatives, but they don't have time. If you didn't fall into the two previous categories, I'm asking if you'd like to take the floor. I can also see that you wish to take advantage of this opportunity, if not in an unlimited time, but in about two and a half minutes, Mr Barándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think that Mr President has correctly and briefly summarised what is the situation here, and what is the problem here: that only one Fidesz and one KDNP Member has not been involved in the debate for a long time now.
u2014-11-21-172	I'm honored by your compliments, thank you very much.
u2014-11-21-173	I'm sorry, I don't count government representatives here. And that is a problem, honourable State Secretary and fellow opposition Members, because you would have the right to hand over from the time frame to the group leader or the deputy group leaders. You don't have the right to do that, so I can't ask you to do that. That's the problem. Because if they no longer had anything to say to the Fidesz Members about the budget, they would leave at least one person who could pass the time frame to the opposition, which, in turn, would have something to say about the budget. Two things for the Secretary of State of Rétvár to say. One is that my fellow Member did not speak of numbers, but said proportions, and it is indeed how much money is spent on one subject and how much is spent on the other that can cause indignation in the man. Even though you've purchased ambulances before to stay on the subject, it's a legitimate outrage. Nevertheless, I think it might be of greater benefit to society if at least part of the money for stadiums were to be devoted to further developing this sector, which is not in very good condition. I don't think Mr. Secretary of State would argue that we could still use the money, would we? Maybe we don't have a fight about that. The second is, well, you'll see that these stadiums will stand as a sad memento, reminding you of your governance, because the problem is, otherwise, there's not much of a visitor in this, and there's not much of a viewer. One of the news portals has calculated this well over the past period, and they are built completely unnecessarily in Hungarian. The fact that there's a big stadium on a can, or Felcsút? I don't know where this is, where the Prime Minister was born, and in English, he's making us pay for his own city, his own village and his own hobby, and I think that's not okay. In the remaining 15 seconds, I ask that my fellow Members and the members of the government who are no longer present consider the amendments that we have tabled. We were indeed driven by the intention to improve, and we would like to transfer budgetary resources to the areas where it is really needed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-21-174	Honourable Members, I see an application, but it didn't take time. I would therefore like to say to the Member that I have registered, Mr Szilágyi, from Jobbik, that you would like to speak and have a thought. The two aren't enough to speak, by the way, because there's no time. So I'd like to ask the government or the government representative? By not seeing or seeing any other applicants who can speak according to the house rules? to conclude the general debate on whether the representative of the Government wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. I can see that Secretary of State Banai indicates that. You have the floor. I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of half an hour. Here you go.
u2014-11-21-175	Thank you very much for the floor. I am trying to stay within the time frame. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen. To conclude the general debate, allow me to recap the most important objectives of the government's draft budget bill for next year, and also to respond to some of the points raised several times during the parliamentary debate. The government has made significant structural changes in recent years, including in the fields of labour market, pension system, tax system, education and public administration. The results show that efforts to restore fiscal and financial balance, to reduce public debt and to restart economic growth have resulted. One of the important results of this was Hungary's exit from the excessive deficit procedure in 2013, growth is substantially above the EU average, and the positive effects are felt by people in many areas. The government remains committed to further reducing fiscal stability, economic growth and public debt, while implementing professional priorities and ideas in specific sectors and areas. In line with this intention, the 2015 budget also envisages disciplined public farming. The submitted bill calculates an economic growth of 2.5 per cent, a deficit according to the EU methodology of 2.4 per cent and a debt-to-GDP ratio of 75,4 per cent at the end of the year according to the rules of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. Dear House, The government will continue to prioritise support for families next year. The system of family tax and contribution allowances that have been taken so far remains. In addition, the tax relief for first-married couples will be introduced, which will last until the birth of the first child, but for a maximum of two years. Together, newlyweds receive a tax allowance of HUF 5 000 per month, giving families an additional income of up to HUF 120 000 in two years. In order to strengthen cooperation between the workplace and the family, incentives for employment will be extended in the framework of the job protection action. What is new is that in 2015 there will be a higher tax reduction even after part-time employment of parents with small children. The increase in employment will mean that the state will have to spend less on aid and income support. One of the priorities of the 2015 budget is the continuation and extension of the Public Works Programme. In addition to the average 200,000 public workers a year, in the second half of 2015, tens of thousands of people could be able to participate in public employment. [[20.10]] Next year's budget envisages HUF 270 billion. The expansion of career models in the public sector will continue next year. In this context, employees of armed and police bodies will receive a significant wage increase of 30 per cent on average from 1 July 2015 and a wage increase will continue in the healthcare sector and also in the case of teachers. The government pays particular attention to improving the situation of pensioners. Pensions will increase in 2015 with inflation levels, thus preserving real pension growth so far. In addition, the burden of older people has been reduced by the reduction of the overhead, the result of which the government wants to keep by launching the national utility system. 2015 is the year the banks are accounted for, the Fair Bank Act enters into force. The settlement of foreign currency loans will take place from mid-January until the end of the year. This will further reduce the retail burden. As in previous years, the use of EU funds is a priority. In the next seven years, together with the Hungarian co-financing, Hungary will receive a total of HUF 12,000 billion of EU funds. The aim is to spend 60% of development and investment aid on economic development and job creation in Hungary. This commitment is reflected in the budget for next year. In the meantime, the last decisive year of the 2007-13 programmes will come, and payments for the new programmes for the 2014-20 period will actually start. Next year, therefore, includes the combined use of resources for two European Union periods, which can substantially contribute to economic growth and employment. Dear House, During the general debate on next year's budget proposal, a number of areas have been highlighted which I would like to address very briefly. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as State Secretary Bence Rétvári pointed out, the government's welfare measures are not exclusively expressed by the development of welfare expenditure. The government does not want to tackle employment problems by increasing aid, but by creating real jobs and expanding public works programmes. This strategy also causes a change in the structure of expenditure in the budget. Thus, the development of welfare expenditure alone only partially expresses the government's commitment to improving the lives of families. The government wants to help families, to a large extent, through the tax system, i.e. by taking measures on the revenue side. As regards welfare expenditure and services, I would like to point out that the amounts spent on sickness benefits, maternity or temporary invalidity benefits or pension expenditure representing the largest item will increase nominally compared to this year. There was a lot of talk about education, too. I would like to point out once again that, in the justification for the bill, the fact that the amounts spent on educational activities and services will be increased next year compared to this year is factually demonstrated. This is also true of public education and higher education expenditure. These are in the chapter of the Ministry of Human Resources. Several times during the debate, the reduction in the spending appropriations of the National Family and Social Policy Fund compared to this year. I would like to inform you that this fund includes pre-retirement benefits from the Pension Insurance Fund, family allowances, income and income supplement social allowances, as well as budgetary resources for the various grants, amounting to HUF 646 billion. Within this fund, a significant change in the number of persons entitled to the pension below the age limit justifies the decrease compared to this year, given that the number of persons concerned can gradually reach the relevant retirement age and thus be entitled to an old-age pension. As a result, the financing of the benefit will be transferred to the Pension Insurance Fund. Therefore, stakeholders will not be left without care, but will only benefit from other funds within the public finances. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in setting up next year's appropriations for family support, we have taken into account the currently more favourable demographic trends and the underlying effects of earlier unfavourable processes. It is therefore important to point out that the population policy action launched in 2004 and continuing in 2015 has led to an increase in births, which represents a welcome increase in the number of people who entered this support scheme, but this increase still cannot compensate for the number of people who are getting out. That's what the bill says. The point is, therefore, that the forint amount for each benefit does not decrease for family support. In his speech, Member József Tobias drew attention to a very important area, the feeding of children. I would like to inform you that next year's bill will provide 10 percent more than 2014 resources to carry out the children's meals of the municipalities. In addition, the support for children's meals in the summer is increased by 15 percent. No government has ever increased the source of child feeding as much as the current government does. Compared to the HUF 28.7 billion budget item in 2010, the steady increase will increase to HUF 52.6 billion this year and HUF 58 billion next year. In addition, the sources of the summer meal increase from HUF 2.4 billion to HUF 3 billion during the same period. Dear Parliament, In many cases Jobbik's representatives pointed to facts and figures related to state income centralisation, and to the fact that, in proportion to GDP, the extent of state centralisation, absorption and redistribution does not seem to decrease. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the state's total revenue increased significantly in proportion to GDP because, after becoming an EU member of our country, the state's revenue is reflected in the annual increase in EU funds. The size of these items reached 3.2 percentage points in 2013 and, as I mentioned, this amount could increase in proportion to GDP over the next period. What is important is that the government has overall reduced the tax deduction compared to the 2009 level of The rate of tax centralisation amounted to 38,4 percent in 2013, and this reduction was also made by extending the system of public burden-sharing in some areas, by increasing resources, while reducing the tax burden for small and medium-sized enterprises and families in Hungary. The VAT rate and the area of the black economy have been mentioned several times. I have to say clearly that the hidden economy, the so-called black and grey area, reached around 23.3% of GDP in 2010, which decreased, according to the latest official 2013 data, to 22.1 percent of GDP. With this indicator, Hungary is part of the European Union's midfield. Based on the recent steps and the process of the 2015 budget ahead, if the proposal is adopted by the Honourable Parliament, we can expect that this ratio will decrease, the economic whitening instruments and measures will reduce the level of the black economy. Thus, next year's budget bill contains a number of measures to reduce this rate. Among these measures, I would like to emphasise once again the establishment of an electronic road traffic control system aimed at monitoring the real journey of goods and paying for public burdens on supplies and sales. Dear Parliament, Dear House, In my opinion, the 2015 government's budget bill ensures the government's commitments to maintain economic stability and leads to gradual positive changes in the daily lives of people and businesses. [[20.20]] I am sure that with the amendments, this draft budget bill will be amended, but I think that if it keeps the basic directions, then 2015 will also result in a rising nation, an increasing economic performance and increased employment. I therefore ask you to support the bill on the 2015 budget during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-21-176	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and no one has spoken after the agenda. Therefore, I would like to inform you that the next three-day session of the autumn session is expected to take place from 24 November 2014. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. I wish you all a restful good night. Goodbye. [[The meeting ended at 8:21 p.m.]]
