u2014-12-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 22nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dezső Believer will be attending the meeting to help me. I salute our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. Speaking before the agenda today, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, will the people who are being pushed into poverty become workers of the future? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-02-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In fact, we are all bored with the government's success propaganda about employment, falling unemployment, which is leading to more and more peaks, but one thing you need to see: living, people's income situation in this country is not improving or even worsening. The Hungarian people simply cannot earn enough to live and support their families. Poverty grows unstoppably. We all know the passwords they use, work-basedness and full employment, but it really doesn't mean anything more and more people in this country are working for hunger. You believe in community service and three shifts along the assembly line, but you don't realize that community service is impossible, anyway humiliatingly low, these people are looking for three-quarters of the minimum wage, and otherwise the minimum wage is the same proportion of the minimum wage, while it is quite clear that there is money in this country, just not spending it on what it should be. I could say next year's budget, including HUF 150 billion in completely unnecessary expenses, the recapitalisation of Eximbank, the stadiums, Paks II, Prime Minister will move to the Castle for HUF 5 billion. What does the government do in this situation? We believe that there is a positive way: to catch up on wages and create jobs. It would be appropriate to reduce the burden on work, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, not just orally, as you do, but in actual action. Instead, you guys are constantly cutting social benefits and trying to get the welfare people out of the way, at least on paper. According to the LMP, we need a radically different direction. We also see that the demand for labour on the market is increasing, let alone decreasing, but the number of public workers is increasing, and this just shows that public workers cannot be absorbed by the labour market, despite the thousands of vacant jobs. You cannot deal with these maladministrations; you simply do not have an employment policy that is modern. But let's see what they're doing next year: 270 billion in public work and 30 billion forints in training and adult education, although there is a situation where if we look at the 270 billion in public workers' situation, too, because the only thing that would really help them is a modern education. This was taken to a quarter from last year to this year. So a quarter of the public workers who participated in education last year will be able to receive education this winter. In addition, training, which would also increase labour market opportunities, i.e. active labour market instruments, and a total of 30 billion. So you are cutting off opportunities for education, training, real labour market catching up, and simply keeping Hungarian people in a public work trap. When will you finally understand that without raising the level of skills of the workforce, employment will not increase and poverty will not decrease? In addition, we remember that last year before the campaign, you suddenly had a lot of public workers, suddenly there were trainings, there was the winter community service programme. Now that there are no elections this year, these people will also be forgotten. The number of public workers in education was fourth by winter this year. But I also have to say that the poverty of workers in this country is also increasing among market workers. You have a concept of reindustrialisation, and this is a concept that leads to employment growth in segments where people work for hunger wages, vulnerable. Moreover, wages in this country have not, for years, been or barely growing, and the government's tax policy is clearly affecting small-time earners. We think that we need a fundamental turnaround, by reducing the tax burden on employers, we could increase the net income of minimum wage earners to the minimum, which, in our calculations, would amount to HUF 20,000 a month. The Hungarian people really need this, and we really need this small-income Hungarian people. In fact, what we see is that you have a completely different view of this country. They are thinking of a cheap, vulnerable and untrained economy where production takes place in large industrial plants, involving huge public funds, although we clearly see that the last 25 years have shown that this model has failed once. It was just after the change of regime that it became clear that the multinationals who moved to Hungary could not lead the country out of the employment crisis, otherwise it would not be their job. You should create an economic policy, predictability and an appropriate employment policy that would be able to bring people down permanently, reduce unemployment and increase wages. We see that this agelessness exists in all areas, including in the field of energy. Paks expansion is constantly appearing on the government's spiritual horizon to put it this way, but it is becoming increasingly apparent that it is only a net loss of money. Yesterday, you presented a bill in which everything is encrypted and, moreover, the loan you received from the Russians is also mentioned in the law that it will be possible to use it for other purposes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This agelessness characterizes you...
u2014-12-02-2	Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-3	I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This Paks law means exactly what it means right now. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2014-12-02-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, András Tállai... - no, but Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-02-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, One thing was certainly forgotten by the LMP's speech before the agenda is that its particular vision and proposal for a solution to the problem is not. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] The problem is seen by the LMP, although I will obviously give you a few figures on exactly how much poverty is a problem in Hungary, which is really present, but fortunately in many ways, but in any case its solution proposal was to make 20 thousand forints more. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Have you read our program?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thanks to the system of family-type taxation, it is about HUF 19-20 thousand that stays with each family compared to four years ago, as this is how much more remains for Hungarian families with average income and average number of children in the new, one-key, family-type tax system. Poverty obviously has different approaches. Obviously, I am trying to give you European Union figures, precisely because you may believe them more easily. At EU level, the EU country's poverty average has risen to 14.7 percent, as a result of the crisis in Hungary, but has not been substantially increased since 2011, but this 14 percent is still less than the EU's 16.7 percent average. It is still a lot, because 14 percent is obviously a lot, and we have to act against this, and I would just like to point out that this government, although the economic crisis has continued throughout the European Union, has still been able to halt previous poverty growth. And if you look at what the CSF statistics that were brought out a few days ago in November say, then they say that the overall group of people living in relative income poverty or at risk of social exclusion has fallen by 241 thousand compared to 2012, which is a 2.4 percent reduction. The highest proportion of people in severe material deprivation. This means that they cannot have sufficient access to basic goods and suffer material deprivation. Their rate has fallen to the greatest extent, 2.9 percent. There are a lot of reasons for this, obviously, if the congresswoman is watching. You say wages don't grow during the crisis. Indeed, generally nowhere in the world, when there is an economic crisis, wages do not increase, but to protect the Hungarian population from mass poverty, that is why we have taken the road to reducing wages, if wages do not rise, at least to reduce the cost of living, so that we can protect the larger masses of people from poverty. It was very important in the crisis brigade when Fidesz-KDNP started its governance in 2010 to protect those who have jobs. That's why we started the job protection action plan. As you know, we have contributed 700 to 800 thousand people to their jobs, because I think you agree with me that one of the best ways to avoid and prevent poverty is to have a job. If someone has a job, has a job income, has a much smaller opportunity to live in poverty, but if they do not have a job, then it is almost certain that only poverty and poverty can be their share. That is why it was important for us to protect jobs. You spoke once again in a demeaning manner and spoke of a community service trap. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ask those people who had previously spent twenty-thousand forints of aid, and now they live on a gross average public wage of 70,000 forints, that they consider it a trap or an opportunity to break out. Indeed, the government spent more and more on this, since in 2011, HUF 64 billion, HUF 137 billion in 2012 and HUF 153 billion in 2013 were included in the budgets, precisely in order to provide more and more people with jobs and wages, more and more people have the opportunity to start working after years of unemployment, and sooner or later to get a job in the market. [[9.10]] I think it's a more humane thing to go to a job, to do community service rather than to go home on welfare, and I think everyone thinks it's fairer if the state, for some reason, gives these otherwise poor people more money than if they're kept in the world of aid. And if you look at these numbers, these hundreds of billions of HUF items, they have essentially all expanded the social register in this respect, as they have given additional benefits to people who had to live on aid. But in addition, since I only have 20 seconds left, let me give you a few more measures. Free textbooks also save families an average of HUF 5 000 per month; for the summer meal - you know it - we spend more than ever for HUF 3 billion next year; for the social children's meals were HUF 29 billion in 2010, next year there will be HUF 58 billion, so every child who suffers from deprivation will receive multiple meals per day; and for those in need, we started a special operational programme worth HUF 29 billion; not to mention the 60 percent enterprise development of GINOP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Zoltán Lukács, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday it was found that Fidesz also stood behind KDNP's proposal that commercial units should be closed in Hungary on Sunday, where no commercial activity could be carried out. This law is for us, and for me it is primarily about the loss of about 20,000 Hungarian jobs if we closed these commercial units on Sunday, about 20,000 people would lose their jobs if these jobs were closed on Sunday. There are currently 330 to 340 thousand people working in the trade, and the opening hours on Sunday affect about 100,000 of these people, about 100,000 workers working in the trade on Sunday, and if the stores are closed, of course, there will be fewer working hours, and fewer workers are obviously required for less working hours, which is why wages and livelihoods in this area will be put at risk. Of course, we're not the only ones saying that, that's what trade unions say. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not what they say!]] And that's what the trade industry experts say. And it is also important to know that there are already 40,000 unemployed people in Hungary who have worked in trade before, and if we add the 20,000 jobs that could be lost now, there will be 60,000 people who will be unemployed and have worked in trade before. And you can also see from statistics that there are about 2,000 jobs in trade today. By adding these three numbers together and comparing them, it means that two thousand empty commercial jobs will soon be 60 thousand unemployed from trade. This means that 30 people will want to work for every vacant job. The Trade Employees Trade Union has also withdrawn from the subsidy. Yesterday, a statement was published that it was one thing that they were informed of, and another thing that they saw written down, so they no longer support this proposal, and the representatives of the trade industry say that this is not eligible. Trade unions say that the proposed legislation that has come forward is a serious attack on trade as a whole and say that it is a serious threat to the jobs, the safety and livelihood of the families involved. You are an example of employee rights, you are referring to employee rights when you talk about this law. Ladies and gentlemen, workers' rights should have been guaranteed in the Labour Code, then they should not have been allowed to take allowances, then they should not have been allowed to be completely vulnerable to workers in the Labour Code, and they should not be referring to this right now! You say that families should be together on Sunday, except during Advent, that they should not be together on Sunday, or that they should not be together on Sunday if they may have a commercial unit and entrepreneurs, because they can be together at their workplaces. That's another interesting thought. Then you very much like to say that this is true in Western Europe too, referring to Western European examples. I would like to point out that in 15 of the Member States of the European Union there is no regulation in this regard, there is a small part of the regulation, and it is also necessary to see that governments in those countries, for example Germany, France, are proposing to open shops more Sundays because they need employment and economic growth. In France, the Minister for Economic Affairs just recently made such a proposal. They said your ultimate goal was to make sure no one works on Sundays. On Sunday, however, people are working outside the trade in Hungary, and in places where it is impossible not to work on Sundays, but they also work in places, such as factories and factories, where there is also work on Sundays. It seems that their families are not so important, that right now it is just commercial families that are important. Orbán said in 2011 that until you can make a living from five days a week's work, there is no way to keep the shops closed. I'm telling you, you still can't make a living in Hungary from five days' work. People don't work on Sunday because they're not against the law, but they work on Sunday because they need the extra money to make a living on their little salary. The Hungarian people have not become richer since 2011. The reason why people work in Hungarian trade is because the 5 to 6,000 forints of wages they can get is that they need to be able to make a living in some way. Ladies and gentlemen. If you make such laws, you will obviously fail, and I will also tell you when you will fail: you will fail on Sunday. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2014-12-02-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we've heard a speech here from the MSZP that finally gave up being considered a left-wing party somewhere in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We have seen this even when the hunger march led by a hundred million-dollar bank account in their pockets, and we know that all the former prime ministers of the MSZP are billionaires at the moment; they have already given up on the appearance of left-wing government when they have helped billions in the position of prime minister. But now, when workers say no to a proposal initiated by them and then react so warily, I think they themselves admit that they still do not want to become a party to left-wing people and workers. I am sorry because other left-wing parties in Western Europe have managed to achieve these results. You know very well that the regulations in Austria, Germany and Belgium are almost exactly the same as those in Hungary in our proposal. [[Zoltán Lukács: Pays are just a little different there!]] On the other hand, if you look at the Italian, French or English regulations, there are a lot of similar elements in them than in the bill that has just been tabled. [[Zoltán Lukács: They only make twice as much there!]] So not only social democracy, but also Western thinking, has been abandoned by the socialists, as I would like to record the wild eastern relations in Hungary, where large employers can do everything they can with their employees, where they are not protected by guarantees such as Austria, Germany or Belgium, but they are completely vulnerable to owners. You have shown me, honourable Member, that many people in Western Europe are also attacking these proposals. Of course, it is not usually attacked by left-wing politicians. Well, yes, a lot of people are attacking, and so far, all attacks have been repelled. After all, since the 1960s, this regulation has been in Austria since maybe 67 or 62 and in other Western European countries, for decades, large companies have been trying to break the rigour of this regulation, they want to loosen up the protection rules for workers, but they could not do it, because there were Members of Parliament, there were governments who defended the interests of workers against these large companies, who wanted to take advantage of the vulnerability of these people until the last moment. So, honourable Member, this has been protected in Western Europe for decades. Let us hope that we will also be able to achieve this Western European model in Hungary. If you are so proud of the European Union flag - which you, honourable Member, have at least managed to put up well, because 60 percent of your fellow Members have put upside down on their laptops. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] - so if you manage to wear it so proudly, you might also try to monitor the rules there from the point of view of the workers and protect them as a real left-wing party. You say the hours will be less. This is obviously true, on the one hand, because the big shops will indeed be closed. [[9.20]] But it's not primarily working time that affects traffic, it's people's wallets to see if there's more or less in it. If you look at the past period, trade traffic has increased by 4.5 percent, and next year's budget is expected to increase by 2-3 percent in the following year. So people are going to spend more and more money in the shops, which is why the traffic there is also going to increase, and more traffic will require more tellers, more sellers, more loaders, more commercial workers. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: In a cashier, two will sit!]] You say that there are a lot of people with commercial skills without work. Honourable Congressman, If that were true, then one of the biggest supermarket chains would not have had to start their own commercial school because there is a shortage of labour in trade. There are no jobs charged on Transdanubia, precisely because there are not enough trade workers, there is a shortage of labour. In fact, if you look at the capital and the countryside that the opening hours on Sunday are profitable or not, there are a lot of opinions here, you've given a kind of opinion, but there's a lot of opinions here, according to one of the trade unions. [[Zoltán Pride: Which one?]] it is very important to introduce this measure, and even members of an international network, workers' councils, and even when KDNP raised this proposal for the second time four years ago, even MSOSZ stood in favour of it and supported it. You've had a pretty good relationship with these unions in the past, apparently these issues have removed you. When, of course, you have to talk about workers' rights when you have to say nice words in the sea of red flags, you are easily left-wing and easy to speak for trade unions' proposals [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the other employees?]] especially in opposition. When they come to government, they forget this, and when it comes to making decisions for workers here in Parliament [[Ágnes Kunhalmi and Zoltán Gőgös: Don't argue with us!]] Then you will also forget exactly what you promised, who you would represent in principle, and what trade unions expect of you. So, this very wide range of surveys that have been carried out over the past period, since we are at the end of a rather thorough consultation on this proposal, he said that it is worth keeping open to companies only in Budapest, and that there is almost a loss of opening hours on Sundays everywhere in the countryside. But what is most important to us is the legal protection of workers [[Zoltán Haughty: But why only those few thousand?]] to ensure that no one is obliged to open as an employee on a free Sunday [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But, of course, it's the convenience store that someone wants to go to on Sunday. [[The president's ringing again.]] and where the owner himself works, they may continue to be open. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect to my fellow Members on my left, I ask you to calm down. Let us not forget that Mr Soldész has also applied for an address before the agenda entitled "Teaching the Left." [[Zoltán Lukács: Oh, Miklós, say it! Zoltán Grimlock: And what about the cows, we can talk about that! It's ringing.]]
u2014-12-02-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If the last five minutes upset Zoltán Grimlock, he won't be soothed by these few minutes. [[Zoltán Pride: I don't care!]] I would like to remind you not only of them, but also of the country. [[Why were you relieved if you were so good?]] not only them, but also Hungarian people living outside the country. After 5 December 2004, who had been to Transylvania, Transcarpathia, South Hungary, he was saddened to experience those months, in many places even years, when the Hungarians who had come to them with love, the Hungarians who wanted to take them back were also received with understandable anger and understandable resistance because of the betrayal of the socialists. Why was that? [[Zoltán Pride: Because you carry so much money...]] Why did you have to get this far, that's the big question. And the big question is whether the attitude of the socialists has changed since then. In the referendum on 5 December 2004, the Socialists and the Liberals, together with them, campaigned hard against the fact that our brothers, who had been separated from us by a peace dictatorship - who had endured for decades in the Ceauşescu or any other dictatorship, kept their Hungarianness, kept their language and everything - they were reaccepted, and they started an uproar in the referendum, during which the referendum was invalid. They spent 50 million forints on this. There was also cynicism in them that some posters were actually cheaper for the socialists, printed across the border, across the border, I could say that they were not very sympathetic with printers and people. But I think it's worth recalling a few things. A poster has been printed:. Do not pay for dual citizenship. Don't pay 20,000 forints a month. ..,.. Don't pay for our jobs because of cheap workers across the border. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Ferenc Gyurcsány said: "The mass immigration of people beyond the border can crush the country's economy, health and pension system. István Hiller, then socialist president, says no, because he thinks that Hungarians across the border will be much better off with the Hungarian passport abroad and the state aid of billions than dual citizenship. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame!]] [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame!]] In vain, all the organisations across the borders here in Parliament, speaking in Parliament, asked that the country vote and support their dual citizenship. (Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame!) As a great democratic politician, Gábor Kuncze cynically said: people know little about this to decide about it, so they have to vote 'no' to give up on what happens. That's the big liberal attitude. But unfortunately, this period had a history. Its history is obviously a period of communism, obviously a period of socialist governance. And unfortunately, this was also done in 2002, because in 2002 they also opposed the status law on Hungarians abroad. What they said then: 23 million Romanians will invade the country, taking away the bread, jobs and everything. But it is worth listening to the attitude of József Tóbias, President of the Young Left at the time:. Young Romanian workers will destroy our small-money Hungarian students with this betrayal of the government. This sad situation makes job opportunities tragic for young people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Has the attitude of the socialists changed since then? [[Interview from Fidesz: No.]] [[Interview from Fidesz: No.]] Has the attitude of the left changed since then? (An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: No. ) Unfortunately, no. The sequel was clear: in 2010, when we could have had an uplifting moment, if everyone had voted for the Hungarian citizenship law abroad, but Ferenc Gyurcsány, Tibor Szanyi, Csaba Molnár socialist representatives voted against; József Baracskai, Lajos Oláh, István Vitányi Socialists abstained... [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Stephen? That's in a different party! Intercom from the pro-government benches: Ivan!]] - Iván Vitányi was a socialist; Dávid Doros, Members of the LMP of Szabó Timea abstained. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] The question is, and here the socialists and the left also have to make the decision: the past decades [[Zoltán Haughty: And how much money have you given, speak of it.]] Are they pursuing his policy, or is it the apology that Attila Mesterházy initiated in Cluj-Napoca? But if you are not secluded, you will not exclude Tibor Szanyi, who said: "It is time to remove the crescent work of Ukrainian national colours from the building of the Hungarian Parliament." [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame!]] Then you will continue to pursue this treason, this anti-national policy. I wish Comrade Haughty well. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-02-12	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Árpád Potápi State Secretary will respond to what has been said. [[Zoltán Lukács: Duma, that's it! Zoltán Grimlock: Duma, it is, but only on paper!]]
u2014-12-02-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there were precedents for this referendum, including on 1 December 2002 the toast at the Kempinski hotel, well prepared the process that ended on 5 December 2004 and entered Hungary's history after the change of regime as a day of shame, a part of the nation's refusal. We can safely say that that day, and especially the previous campaign period, were weeks of destruction. We never thought that, once we finally had the opportunity to recreate our nation, we were able to recreate and recreate Hungarians from across the border, a political force, a government that states from a government position that Hungarian communities across the border are not part of the Hungarian nation; they are not part of the nation, because they argue that they are an economic burden. Playing with the idea: this means that our greats born beyond the borders of today's Hungary, such as King Matthias or the Transylvanian princes, Bálint Balassi, Sándor Márai, Károly Kós or Endre Ady, and we could continue the line for a long time, you would not think, my socialist fellow Members, Hungarian citizens, because they would be a burden to you and to the mother country. [[9.30]] This policy has caused great damage to all Hungarian society. We testified then, and we still say that every Hungarian person is worth living anywhere in the world, and every Hungarian community enriches our culture. However, after the loss of confidence caused by the referendum debate, it soon turned out that underestimating the power of a thousand-year-old spiritual community like the Hungarian nation was a huge mistake. We have managed to recover from this situation again today. We have proved that the power of our nation lies in unity, faithful to our history, an example of recovery from hopeless situations. We have begun to reunite the nation in the sense of public law. In the 2010 elections, it was finally decided that that policy and selfishness should not continue. In 2010, the Hungarian government responsible for the entire Hungarian nation was formed. We have made the laws that are symbolic, but they are very, very important to all of us. I'm not going through all this, we know what they are, but they have tangible results for today. For example, 680 thousand Hungarians from abroad have submitted their applications for naturalization and more than 630,000 have since become Hungarian citizens. Last December 5 we had a historic moment when Father Csaba Böjte and his mother, Julianna Böjte, took the oath of Hungarian citizenship in the Dome Hall of the Hungarian Parliament. They were the five hundred thousandths, and many among the five hundred thousand were prominent personalities of culture, science, and the ecclesiastical world. After 6 April 2014, a national parliament serves the Hungarian cause. By 2014, we can say that trust between Hungarian communities has been restored, but we can never forget and we cannot lose sight of the bad events of the past, including December 5th. In order to prevent such betrayal from ever happening again, so that the power of the unity of the Hungarian nation can never be questioned again, we will continue to work. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-02-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Gőgös if he is interested in personal matters. I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2014-12-02-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I asked for the floor because Miklós Soltész, referring to others, constantly slandered me in a case he did not otherwise have any legal basis for. I think, honourable former Secretary of State, that if you help Hungarians across the border as much from yourself, not with words, but, by the way, we can talk about who did some for them. By the way, you've only done harm to Hungarians across the border. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Fidesz. Interview at the same place: Where is the personal involvement? The president's ringing the bell.]] This could be discussed separately in Szilágy County. He did not become Hungarian council president because Viktor Orbán campaigned for a party that received 1 percent, but took so many votes that he did not have the Hungarian council president of Szilágy County. Why don't you come over there with me sometime, and we'll discuss this problem with them, and don't insult us, but just take your own pockets, out of all the stuff you've collected for yourself over the past four years. I'm sure you'll get it, not just for Rolex class. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-02-16	Thank you. Adam Mirkóczki's better representative also applied for a speech before the agenda. [[Zoltán Haughty and Zoltán Lukács have repeatedly intervened.]] : How long can rapists continue to roam? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2014-12-02-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor before today's agenda so that we could, I might say, try to bring forward a problem that has been unsolved for long, long years or rather decades with a positive sign, and I would like to speak, in particular, about the problem of falling back among the criminals, which is making society's subjective sense of security continue to decline. I predict that I do not want to express criticisms of my opposition nature, but that it is indeed motivated by how we can solve this very serious social problem in the most appropriate way and in the most efficient way possible. If you look at the crime statistics of the last few days or the last two weeks, as well as crime types and criminal news, you will find shocking news. I don't want to go through it right now, Eger, Miskolc, two county seats: just five rapes; Somogysil: attacking an old lady? Grandpa: School violence. I really don't want to go through all this, so it could be a day's notice of the crimes that take place every day within a closed deadline. What is interesting, and as if the good Lord wanted it, is the news of today's news that the commander of the Star Prison in Szeged says in an interview that, for example, more than 50 percent of Hungarian prisoners who committed serious crimes fall back after their release. Obviously, there are many reasons for this. I think it would be time for you to seriously address both the issue of house arrest and the solution to criminal supervision after your trenchman, the big storm of trenches. After all, you can see that these perpetrators are falling back to a very large extent. I think we should now forget who is in the government and who is in the opposition, but listen to all constructive thoughts. We've repeatedly suggested installing satellite GPS-based trackers, such as bracelets, on house arrests. Whether the person who has served his time in prison for a serious crime and who does not actually fit back into society and actually sees its constructive way of life, we believe that they should also be subject to a sanction or regulation by which they can be properly monitored by the authorities. We would make this criminal surveillance a little more effective and broaden the possibility even more. If I were to simplify it very much, we would also like to introduce, in a sense, an institution for curfewing, so as to limit the movement of prisoners or those who have recently been released, of those who have committed certain crimes, in the sense that this restriction of movement could be extended in space, in time and on a personal basis. What are we thinking? First of all, we think that after a certain period of the day, these people cannot leave their homes - one. Two, people who committed certain crimes, such as pedophiles, are not allowed to come into contact or to go to kindergartens or schools. So we would also introduce a kind of personal restriction. We would also like to make sure that these people who committed violent crimes are not allowed to visit nightclubs. I think when someone looks at it, especially in the case of anger crimes, the amazing extent and proportion of them are, let's just say, committed at nightclubs or at nightclubs. I think these are not regulations from the devil, because in the United States of America, a large part of them are still applied to this day. What's good, I think it's safe to take over, we don't necessarily have to come up with the Spanish wax in order to get from one to the other in order to improve public safety and well-being. And we would also like freshly released offenders to report regularly to the authorities about what they do for a living, where they have money, what their income comes from and what they do for a living. The authorities would experience surprising things if we could check this regularly. And once again, as a closing point, we should not fool society by saying that the current regulation is good. We think that there are some forward-looking signs, but we want society not to be fooled, but to protect and explore further opportunities, even in the form of five-party negotiations. We're open to every solution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. [[9.40]]
u2014-12-02-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As regards the criminal convictions of relapsers, I do not think there is any difference between the government and you, so the repeater or repeater is the perpetrator, the potential perpetrator of the most dangerous crime, and, of course, in recent years, the Parliament has reacted accordingly to the repeated tightening of the penal code on the government's proposal, responding to the new challenges faced by the fight against repeated criminals. I would like to remind you that, as a first step, we have introduced the institution of the three strikes, which has been a very serious sanction specifically for those who committed violent crimes against the person, since the third time, the violent repeat criminal has already been twice the penalty. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] as a culprit, or if this sentence exceeds twice the sentence of 20 years, you will also have to impose a life sentence on the court. So the institution of the three strikes, which was corrected by the Constitutional Court with regard to the punishment of the set, but the rules of the three strikes remained in respect of the repeated criminals, these rules of the three strikes, in essence, exclude those who committed the most serious crimes from parole at any time, or may be released after a long prison sentence, which, I must say, effectively successfully separates them from society, prevents them from committing crimes again. The new criminal code includes those who are not subject to the rules of the three strikes, additional restrictions, so that the new criminal code excludes them from the benefits, the benefit of conditional leave, or even the benefit of suspended imprisonment, only in very exceptional cases, against a repeat criminal. I would like to remind you that within the framework of the so-called child-friendly justice package, the Parliament has tightened the record of the criminal record of children's abuse, primarily sexual crimes. Thus, it is no longer possible today to apply to a former child-injured person who is otherwise subject to the obligation to issue a moral certificate, so the moral certificate will explicitly include the provision of what type of crime he was convicted of. So even if it's not the general public, but the potential employer will know that someone who committed such a pedophile crime or committed crimes against other children cannot be used in such a job. The special attention you have mentioned is that, in this way, which would concern those who are released from prison, not in this form, but is included in the new prison law, and recently the government has also decided that the supervision of the so-called patrons' supervisory system will be coordinated by prison enforcement, so that the prison enforcement will be carried out by those protective inspectors who will carry out special treatment and special monitoring of the escapeees. I believe that Parliament has already taken a lot of steps against violent repeat criminals, and has taken a lot of steps to ensure that prisoners who are released from prison are able to partially fit back into society and that their monitoring is carried out under special circumstances. All proposals will, of course, be considered. My suggestion is that some provisions of the Criminal Code are expected to be reviewed next year, and I think we should go back to this debate when the new Criminal Code may have a first short story discussed by Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-02-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy. Mr Bence Tuzson, on behalf of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda: the essence of our policy. You have the floor.
u2014-12-02-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, When the previous Orbán government took over governance in 2010, a number of fundamental issues arose. One of these fundamental issues was how, in the difficult situation of the country, it was possible to achieve a country from one to two, to stimulate economic growth and to increase employment and employment in the country. Employment was at a very low level at the time, as remember, then less than 3 million 800 thousand people worked in Hungary. If we remove the number of civil servants from this number, then we can see that this number was so small, that about a quarter or fifth of the people supported the entire Hungarian population from the economic side. We had to do something with this number, because we all knew precisely that in the event that it would remain so, with such a low employment, economic growth, lasting economic growth and an increase in people's quality of life and standard of living could not be achieved. A number of measures have been taken by the government in order for growth to start, and it has lured Hungary to companies that have joined in production, in the development of the manufacturing industry, because we produce on one side, and we create value on the other side, and if the number of jobs is increased, then it is certain that people who are involved in this will grow in their quality of life and quality of life. Employment will therefore increase and increase, and a number of other measures have been introduced by the government either in the area of tax law or in the field of labour law, in order to ensure that previous apparent rules protecting workers, which in reality did not protect workers, but which have led to fewer jobs in Hungary, are no longer in the way of economic growth. In this connection, there was all the measures that meant the public works programme, in which we achieved that more and more people were working in Hungary. There have been a number of criticisms here about the public work programme, but it is important to point out that this means temporary temporary employment, temporary employment, which is all about bringing people back to work. These many measures that have taken place at this time are, of course, not immediate and immediate real, visible, measurable effects. These numbers are starting to come in now, and now they're showing quite serious and to a large extent. Of course, we have serious tasks ahead of us, and these are the serious tasks ahead of us. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They need serious people, and we need to rethink the strategy that we will continue to pursue to this end. The figures are beautiful and look good, as unemployment has now fallen to 7.1 percent in Hungary, more and more people are working in Hungary, reaching 4 million 200 thousand people. Of course, we can be happy, and we will go in the right direction if these numbers continue to grow, and we will be able to achieve almost full employment in Hungary, and there will be no person who can, can and wants to work in Hungary and will not have a job. It is in this direction that we need to go further, and the instrument system of this should be further developed. In this respect, the asset system is very important, it remains important for industrial companies to come to Hungary and we welcome all companies that come to Hungary permanently with the aim of creating jobs. Yes, there is a need to create jobs, even if there is a need to broaden the public works programme in Hungary and to take measures that help these people find work in real economic life. There is one more area that is extremely important, and I think we need to go further, and that is the issue of pensioners. Pensioners should also be encouraged and an incentive system should be developed in Hungary to enable pensioners to come back to work mainly in deficit areas, in the deficit sector, because today we have different problems than we did years ago, other problems. While earlier the problem was that young people are unable to fill certain jobs because of pensioners, now the situation is reversed, there are also shortages where the employment of pensioners is needed. In this regard, even tax rules and tax legislation should be amended. We must follow this direction, and I think it is our duty to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-02-22	Thank you, Congressman Tuzson Bence. On behalf of the government, Mr Sándor Czomba will answer. [[9.50]]
u2014-12-02-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, one of the most important and serious problems encountered by the first Orbán government in April 2010. Where were we? 3 million 750 000 people worked in Hungary, there was an unemployment rate of around 12 per cent, with which we competed with Malta, I quote, from many European Member States for many years, by the way. If I say, in the language of numbers alone, that the unemployment rate is 7.1 percent at the moment, with Belgium, Finland and Sweden at roughly the same level, then this is also a very important point. But more importantly, employment is now over 4 million for the first time in 22 years, because no Hungarian government has been able to achieve this since 1992, and we seem to be able to maintain it permanently above 4 million. The question is whether this came on its own, so the world has developed so that employment could expand, or we needed the government's measures that the Hungarian government has taken in recent years. Let me give you a few examples of this. The 2010-2014 phase can be divided into two parts from an employment policy point of view. The first part lasted until the first half of 2010-2013, when we knew during a period of recovery from an economic crisis, we saw that the competitive sphere would not be able to create as many jobs as there was a need for jobs in Hungary, so we had to decide whether we were going to transform the aid system and instead of providing aid work, if nothing else, provide temporary public employment to people in areas where there has been no competition for many years or decades. We have decided to choose employment instead of the aid system, and indeed, between 2010 and 2013 the dynamics of employment were primarily given by public employment. Jobs have also been created in the competition sector, but on an annual level of 20-30, to a maximum of 40 thousand. The situation is quite different, thanks to God, from the second half of 2013, because if we look at reason and argument, we see that nearly 200,000 jobs have been created, and the vast majority of that is 160 thousand in the competition sector. So a very healthy process has started, and we need to maintain this process in the next period as well. What have we done? Amendment of the Labour Code. A number of criticisms have been given to this legislation, but it has to be seen that making the Labour Code more flexible and bringing it closer to real life has also helped a lot from the employer's side to the worker's side to promote competitive employment. In addition, it is important to see that in Hungary there are not only problems with employment in general, but also huge territorial differences, as we compete with Austria in the area of Győr, while in Szabolcs-Szatmár and Borsod there is an unemployment rate in Greece, so it is very important to try to bring jobs where the many working hands are available, knowing the mobility of the Hungarian workforce, that is what the existence and opportunities of a free business zone are for. In the coming years, we would like to extend this opportunity by helping people to find their place as soon as possible with realistic tax and other development policy instruments. The job protection action plan is aimed at where it is aimed for a reason, as there is a great deal of trouble in 25 years, over 55 years of age and in the case of untrained people. Let's keep this program going. In Hungary, 16,000 young people are currently working with the help of this programme under the title of the First Job guarantee programme. We have helped young people become entrepreneurs, and I could say, thank God, there is plenty to be done in relation to the measures of the past period, but there is much more to be done. We need to adapt our vocational training system in order to bring it closer to the needs of the labour market, while adapting higher education and public education feet to make the most of labour market needs, and we are planning a number of measures, even in the next period, that will specifically help to increase employment. We are confident that we will be able to keep the number of employees above 4 million permanently, and we will try to keep the unemployment rate down from 7 per cent in order to achieve full employment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise, conversation. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been inserted into the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The final vote on the bill initiating the amendment of certain laws in the context of the further development of the National Environmental Information System follows. The submission was made in T/1965. received on a serial number. I would like to inform you that the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate will not be tabled. The leader of the LMP Group is the House Rule 48. § 4 of the T/1965/2-3-4. The EESC has initiated the continuation of the proposed amendments. That's what we decide first. T/1965/3 Mr Benedek put forward a proposal in the amending proposal No. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of the request of the LMP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 116 against and two abstentions. T/1965/2. Amendment 3 to the proposal for a regulation on the subject of Mr Benedek's proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of the request of the LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. T/1965/4 Mr Benedek proposed an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of the request of the LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1965. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 158 votes to one, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXXX on Hungary's central budget for 2014 follows. Final vote on the legislative proposal to amend law. The submission was made in T/804. received on a serial number. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of the National Assembly is T/804/8. It sent a single proposal with a serial number to the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the granting of its prior consent T/804/9. available on the network by serial number. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/804/8. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 116 votes in favour, 31 against and 17 abstentions. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/1706. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1706/11. by serial number and summary report by T/1706/12. by serial number. So now it's time for the decisions to be made. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, the leader of the group is T/1706/3. Amendment Nos 4 and 4 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we decide first. T/1706/4. Mr Benedek put forward a motion in the amendment No. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of the request of the LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes to 142, with 1 abstention. T/1706.3. Mr Benedek's motion will be decided on in the amendment No. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of the request of the LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 5 votes in favour, 159 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1706/11. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes to 2, with 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1706.14. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 21, with 28 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break before we continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats in the corridor or in the Chamber. [[Noise. A moment's pause.]] I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats in the corridor or in the Chamber. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 will follow until closure. The submission is T/2141. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that we are discussing the proposal as a matter of nationality. I would also like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Committee on Budgets as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015, we propose to amend approximately 110 laws. However, the bill does not contain only amendments, but also separate, definitive provisions. Please allow me to highlight some of the proposed ones. By amending the Act on Hungary's economic stability, we would like to prevent, among other things, the re-indebtedness of municipalities starting with a clean slate for the future. From 1 January 2015, companies owned by a 100% municipality may, with little exception, enter into a debt transaction only with the government's consent. This is to prevent these companies from building up debt uncontrollably. The amendment provides for the entry into force of a single-key corporation tax at a later date. On 1 January 2015, when the Act on Economic Stability was adopted, Parliament decided on the date of the introduction of a single-key corporate tax, but given that the current corporate tax rules also provide an entrepreneur-friendly environment for taxpayers, the subsequent introduction of a single-key corporate tax does not create a significant disadvantage for economic operators. With the amendment of the Public Finance Act, the rules on the establishment, restructuring and termination of the budgetary body, as well as the management and supervision of the budgetary body, will be re-regulated. [[10.10]] The proposal sets out the conditions and limits for the establishment of budgetary bodies. The proposal introduces the possibility of merger separation and merger separation as a new case for the transformation and termination of the budget body, while at the same time introducing guarantee rules to strengthen the public credibility of the register. The proposal removes the concept of authorised numbers. The effectiveness of determining the number of employees by the managing body has clearly been questioned and has now been significantly removed from the needs that initially motivated it to be introduced. The real limits of the staff are not the fixed number, but the amount of the appropriations under which the budgetary body can ensure the payment of staff allowances. The amount of the expenditure appropriation depends on the remuneration rules laid down by the status law. However, the abolition of the concept of authorised numbers does not preclude the use or consideration of other types of numbers in order to be predictable. According to the methodology published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the indicator calculated on the basis of the continuously maintained staff register will thus have a greater role to play in the functioning of the budgetary bodies. This will, for example, be the measure that provides the budgetary body with or without an economic organisation for more efficient public management. The proposal re-regulates the rules on budgetary support and aid linked to the general operation of local authorities and their sectoral tasks. In this context, the proposal meets the long-standing expectations of the legal nature of the grant relationship and provides clear rules on the rights and obligations of the supporter and beneficiary in relation to the grant relationship. The proposal also settles the relationship between the Public Finance Act and the Public Finance Aid Transparency Act. The latter is not applicable to aid granted under the Public Finance Act. However, this amendment does not, despite previous rumors in the press, address the elimination of both public disclosure and conflict of interest rules in relation to the use of public funds. It aims to ensure that the rules on budgetary aid are exclusively laid down in the Public Finance Act and its Implementing Regulation, increasing the role of the Treasury-led monitoring system for budgetary support. The transparent use of public funds, including budgetary support, is also ensured by the new rule of the proposal that excludes the possibility of providing budgetary support in the future on the basis of non-set and unpublished support decisions in the monitoring system. Dear House, The proposal introduces as a new legal institution the regularity and financial control of local authorities. On the basis of the Council Directive on requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States, the regularity and financial control of the annual budgetary accounts of local authorities and national authorities will be carried out in the future through the Treasury. The purpose of the audit is to improve the reliability of the annual reports of the municipal subsystem, and to make as little substantial errors as possible. The report drawn up during the audit will be discussed by the local government, the body of representatives of the minority self-government, together with the report on the implementation of the budget and the closing accounts. The bill initiates the abolition of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. The Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund has fulfilled its function as required at the time of its establishment. In view of the fact that the Fund no longer manages any additional assets for a substantial debt reduction, it has become obsolete, while some operating expenses continue to arise. In view of this, the Fund is proposed to expire on 31 January 2015. Subsequently, the assets previously transferred from the fund to the State free of charge are treated by the Hungarian National Asset Management Private Limited Company as being required to use the proceeds related to the assets - dividends, returns, proceeds from sales - to reduce debt. The remaining funds of the Fund and the contributions of the members who will withdraw will increase the revenue of the Treasury. In this way, they also indirectly serve to reduce debt. The bill is set out in Annex III. Chapter III of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for a restructuring of the system of social benefits. The government's aim in this regard is to renew the aid scheme for those in need. The amendments will make the new social support system fairer and more transparent and prevent abuse of aid, which we have often experienced before. In addition to the forms of support guaranteed and guaranteed by the State, it will be up to the municipalities to provide social support to the Hungarian people in the future. This is also laid down in the law on the local governments of Hungary as proposed. If the municipal authorities decide on the aid, all in need will receive a benefit, but not those who have abused these rules previously. Local communities have the best knowledge to decide who is eligible and who is not. In the new aid scheme, no one can be left without benefits, since municipalities without adequate tax power will have a central budgetary resource. The benefits covered by the State's responsibility fall within the district competence and the municipal benefits fall within the competence of the body of representatives. The amendment separates the tasks granted by the State and related to the municipal aid. In the future, the social law will only include rules on compulsory benefits. Prior to the amendment, regular social assistance as a form of care will cease to exist and the rules on the provision of active-age care will become uniform. Upon the entry into force of the amendments, the amount previously established shall be paid to those receiving regular social assistance until 28 February 2015. The eligibility of such persons for employment replacement or health and child care assistance should be reviewed by that date. In the future, the municipality will be able to decide on the introduction of municipal aid in view of certain local features. The aid will be granted in particular in the case of regular expenditure on housing, the care of a long-term patient over the age of 18, the accumulated backlog relating to expenditure on medicines, housing expenditure, and an emergency life-threatening situation. In order to ensure the source of municipal aid, the bill states that local business tax and municipal tax should be used primarily for this purpose. The bill also provides for the free transfer of ownership of certain public assets. On 1 January 2012, the State took over from Esztergom the full responsibility of public education institutions and certain social institutions, with the exception of kindergartens, as well as the assets associated with the performance of the tasks. The takeover was justified by the situation in the city in 2012. The city has not been able to perform many of its mandatory tasks. However, this task was one year ahead of the transformation of the municipal system, in which part of the municipal tasks were transferred to the State on the basis of uniform principles, and consequently the situation on Esztergom differs in many respects from the general one. [[10.20]] This particular situation can no longer be explained by any other reason, and it is therefore appropriate to adapt the performance of the mandatory tasks in the case of Esztergom to the general one. Based on this, the distribution of municipal and state tasks would follow the national practice of Esztergom, thus Esztergom would have the same tasks as the other similar municipalities in the country, and the ownership of the property associated with the task would also develop in Esztergom as elsewhere in the country. The proposal also amends the possibility of performing more effective public authority tasks related to the collection and recovery of waste generated from products subject to charge in relation to the certification of public waste management activities. In the future, it will be responsible for the public waste management organisation designated in the Government Decree to carry out the tasks arising from the Environmental Product Fee Act. Dear House, Allow me to continue with the proposal for a regulation under Article VI. I should also like to say a few words about the important further amendments to the law contained in chapter 1 of this Official Journal of the European Union. First of all, I would like to mention the Personal Income Tax Act, whose amendment is justified by the fact that, at the actual time of switching the currency of consumer loan contracts to HUF, the spot exchange rate may differ from the forinting, i.e. the fixed exchange rate. As a result, the private person is subject to a lower obligation than in the case of conversion at the spot rate, which is equivalent to the remission of part of the debt. It is therefore appropriate to provide a legal basis for exempting the obligation that has ceased to exist. I wish to discuss the amendment of the law on private pensions and private pension funds in more detail on the basis of the debate that has arisen since the submission of the bill. It is well known that the pension system was on the verge of collapse by 2010 due to compulsory private pension fund membership. The majority of the Hungarian pension savings were managed by foreign cashiers, the lack of a state pension fund grew; the Gyurcsány government was able to pay pensions only through IMF loans, and the Bajnai government gave its pension fund a deficit of HUF 357 billion. This increased public debt, so the former regime was unsustainable. It is a striking fact that in 2008 and 2009, under left-wing governments, 50,000 people were transferred from private pension funds to the public system, because because of the poor investments made by the cashier, they were unable to provide retirement benefits for those who retired at that time. If it had been up to the previous governments, there would be millions today without a pension. The pension expert of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Employment and the World Bank said that the financing model of the Hungarian compulsory private pension fund system was fundamentally flawed. According to the Commission expert, the former scheme was not suitable for savings to be made by the cashiers. The former private pension fund system did not serve the interests of citizens, and savings could be achieved not by Hungarian citizens, but by cashiers. The restructuring of the pension system was essential for the state to be able to ensure the supply of current and future pensioners. By abolishing the compulsory private pension fund membership and relocating pension contributions to the state fund, we have eliminated the increasing deficit of the state pension fund. 97 percent of the stakeholders, more than 3 million people, have returned to the public system, but 60 000 have remained private pension fund members; in order to ensure their care, additional safeguards are needed, some private pension funds being fictitious, creating a false illusion of pension security while standing on financially uncertain feet. Only a fraction of the members in several cash registers regularly pay the membership fee. The membership fee of 10 thousand HUF per month in 2011 shows an average of less than 500 HUF this year, which is so low because of the non-payers. Without intervention, these fictitious pension funds will collapse over time, and even the money of those who pay decently will be lost, because pension funds simply revive their assets. The government cannot allow this, so the fundamental purpose of the amendment is to filter out fictitious cash registers and encourage members to make regular payments. In the future, it will be a condition for at least 70 percent of members to pay membership fees. It is proposed to use 2.5 per cent of the membership fee for the operation of the cash registers in the future, while to ensure that investments are effective, asset management costs are set at a maximum of 0.4 per cent. The proposal includes a provision for members who are indicting the payment of membership fees, according to which the cashier is entitled to reduce the return of the member's individual account and to credit it for the benefit of the operational and liquidity reserve. In the case of a private pension fund where a large part of the membership does not pay a flat-rate membership fee, the intention of the sustainability of the operational capacity is questioned, and the new rules therefore require the compulsory winding-up of the fund. According to this rule, the private pension fund is not operational if the number of members who pay membership falls below 70 per cent over a period of at least two months on an average of six months. In this case, members shall have the opportunity to move to another private pension fund or to go back to the social security scheme. The retroactive application of the rule is also excluded on the basis of the planned provisions of the bill, since it will be possible to apply it only in respect of the fact arising after the entry into force of the regulation. Moreover, the legislation does not affect the voluntary pension fund branch at all, where there are still more than one million members with significant assets today. This form of self-care is strongly supported by the government and encourages voluntary membership of the cash register, including the tax reduction on payments. However, due to the need for transparent operation, voluntary pension funds and private pension funds will no longer be able to become mixed pension funds. I also think it is very important to stress that those who go back to the state system receive the same pension as those who did not have private pension funds. This practice means that if a real return has been made in the private pension fund, the members will receive it as well as their voluntary payments, while any losses due to membership of the cash register will not reduce their subsequent pension. The adoption of an amendment to the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Equal Opportunities Act will make it possible to collect unwarranted disability benefits. The amendment of the Road Transport Register Act provides for the possibility of effective action against road users who are in breach of the obligation to pay road tolls. If the proposal is adopted, the authorities will be able to access the Central Transport Register database in a targeted way. We are also proposing a number of amendments to the Law on the Rules of Taxation. For the first time, in order to ensure legal certainty, the early relief in the performance of the tax obligations relating to insurance contributions for 2014 can be applied by taxpayers on the basis of the rules in force on 31 December 2014. We also want to facilitate the procedure of municipal tax authorities on a number of points, thus reducing the bureaucratic burden on them and on people. In this context, I mention that, in the future, municipal tax authorities will have the opportunity to correct, supplement, and determine, on the basis of the available data, the incomplete or incorrect declaration of the taxpayer, and in the absence of a tax declaration, in which case the verification procedure will not be necessary. [[10.30]] The amendment is also beneficial for the taxpayer, since it is also exempt from the adverse consequences of tax control. In addition, the municipal tax authorities can prepare the tax charge with the available data during the tax procedure without the taxpayer having to add a new tax return to a tax item that had previously been taxed by the municipality with another tax code. This amendment reduces both the administrative burden for taxpayers and the tax administration. It is also important to note that if the municipal tax authority has learned that the taxpayer's tax liability has ceased to exist, it may cancel the levy without a further declaration and not have to prosecute the taxpayer for failure to submit a tax return. The proposal also provides for legal possibilities for the central body managing the register of citizens' personal data and addresses, as with the State tax authority, to provide information to the municipal tax authority if the municipal tax authority so requests. The amendment of the Law on excise duty and specific rules for the marketing of excise goods aims at avoiding the need to pay higher excise security to small undertakings engaged in alcohol products. With this proposal, the government recognises the typically family businesses that play a decisive role in the commercial distribution of wine products and small distilleries. As a result of their activities, a number of Hungaricums are placed on the shelves, which are sold only in small quantities and could not appear in the product range of the larger traders. With this amendment, we are creating a fixed-band excise security system that represents a proportionate burden increase for large retailers dealing with the distribution of beverages. The adjustment of the level of the excise security to the turnover also reaches the political goal originally intended, as the new security system includes additional stricter requirements for traders with higher turnover. Clearly, the risk is higher where the bulk of goods moves. The amendment of the Law on simplified public liability contributions includes the increase of the revenue limit from HUF 25 million to HUF 60 million. As a result of this amendment, further whitening of the economic performance of the professions and occupations covered by the law and, as a result, its increased tax performance can be expected. We are proposing amendments to the law on public employment and other law related to public employment primarily for practical reasons. Among the problems that have been identified and to be solved is the fact that public workers are usually given the opportunity to take part in a job interview during working hours, but employers often do not contribute to this. According to the current legislation, employers are indeed not obliged to allow public workers to seek employment during working hours, but the government considers it particularly important that as many public workers as possible find a job in the primary labour market, and therefore we propose that public employees receive a working time discount for participation in the job interview. To this end, also in order to support the location, a means of providing public assistance is to assign the job placement to the declared vacant post. If this results, the proposal is accompanied by a sanction in the event of an obligation to accept an appropriate job offered or not accepted. The purpose of the amendment of the Labour Code Act and the law on the status of public sector workers is to further improve the situation of families raising children. Accordingly, for parents with three or more children, the possibility of compulsory part-time employment is extended from the previous 3 years to the age of 5 years. This amendment is also well suited to the extension of the action plan for the protection of jobs. You recall that in this context, the period of tax relief after the employment of parents with three or more children will be extended from next January. The National Public Education Act includes the establishment of a pensioner's allowance table and the supplementary fund at the current minimum wage level. I wish to stress that the amendment does not affect the wage increase resulting from the gradual introduction of the pedagogical career model, and we will, of course, continue to ensure that. The amendment is necessary in order to decide on an increase in salaries in the public sector under the current budgetary constraints. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the bill submitted forms a close union with the 2015 central budget bill and serves as a basis for it, so I ask you to discuss and accept the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-02-26	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-02-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 22. In addition to the submission of the draft law on the central budget, the Government must also submit the legislative proposals necessary to lay down the basis for its provisions. This obligation was fulfilled by the Government on 20 November 2014 when it was submitted by T/2141 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2015 Bill No. 1. The Government has tabled the proposal to amend more than a hundred laws in such a way that it will enter into force at least at the same time as the Central Budget Act. It is a fact that this bill is not one of the most exciting laws, but I think that it cannot, should not be seen in itself, because it is closely linked to two other legislative proposals, the central budget and tax laws. The government first presented the budget to Parliament, which reflects the government's concept and vision of the future. As the general debate on the budget has already been conducted by Parliament, so the main objectives of the budget are known to everyone, it is not necessary to recapitulate this. In order for the measures set out in the budget to be implemented, it was important to amend the tax laws, as this will provide budgetary coverage. I believe that the tax law, which has already been voted in favour, will meet this objective, as the government has always shown strict budgetary discipline in recent years and has met the deficit targets set. In order to ensure a smooth implementation of the budget and tax laws next year, a ground-breaking bill with a fundamental objective of harmonisation is essential. I thought it was important to highlight what we just said so that it is clear to everyone why these three legislative proposals are being drafted at the same time. The most important elements of the foundational bill in a nutshell are: 1. First, the rules governing the government's contribution to the transaction generating municipal debt will be simplified. 2. From 1 January 2015, companies owned by one hundred percent of the local government may, with the consent of the government, enter into a debt-generating transaction or provide guarantees and guarantees.3. According to the Act on Hungary's economic stability, corporate tax would have been uniform from 1 January 2015. Given the current state of the budget, this is likely to enter into force a year later. [[10.40]] 4. The Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund will expire on 31 January 2015. In order to prevent small drink traders from being prevented by the new excise insurance system for alcohols, the government intends to resolve the problem with a striped system. With this, traders selling their own products in some 150 family businesses, typically family wineries, sparkling wine makers, brandy makers and craft brewers can continue to stay on the market. 6. The lower limit of the administrative fine for low turnover companies will be 100 thousand forints instead of 200 thousand forints. 7. Tokaj Wine Region Nonprofit Kft. It is owned by the Tokaj Wine Region Mountain Council. 8. In order to protect the existing private pension fund assets, it is included among the cases of termination of the private pension fund with winding-up, that the cashier should be terminated if the number of members paying the member falls below 70 per cent of the number of members for at least 2 months on the average of the previous 6 months. In addition to other rules on winding-up, members will have the possibility to withdraw from the social security scheme or to move to another private pension fund, which they will be able to do without a time limit. 9. There is a change in the system of centralised salary accounting. From 1 January 2015, a centralised calculation of wages and salaries will be carried out across all budgetary bodies in the public finances system. 10. The aid scheme for those in need will be renewed. Thanks to this amendment, the new social support system will be fairer, more transparent and prevent abuse of aid that has been experienced before. Since local communities have the best knowledge to decide who is eligible and who is not, it is therefore appropriate for the municipalities to decide on the aid. They will be free to decide both the size and the form of the grants. In the new aid scheme, no one can be left without benefits, since municipalities without adequate tax power can obtain central budgetary resources. The public regulatory aid and the local government's tasks in the field of aid will be separated. The social law will only include rules on compulsory benefits. This includes elderly people's benefits, support to replace employment, health and child care support, care premiums, subjective and normative public health care. Regular social assistance, which has been compulsory so far, will cease as a form of care. In addition, compulsory aid will include housing support and debt management services. The bill also provides that the kindergarten allowance will cease with the introduction of compulsory kindergartening from 1 September 2015. In addition to reducing compulsory aid, municipalities are free to decide on additional benefits and eligibility conditions. As regards the aid to be provided by local authorities, the social law requires that the municipality provides municipal support to persons in crisis situations and to address local social problems. It sets out certain types of municipal aid and eligibility conditions in the decree of the municipality. Accordingly, the rules on public health services for equity, care premiums and municipal aid are no longer included in the 1993 Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits. In conclusion, I would like to stress to you that the country's financial situation is stable, public debt is falling, and the budget deficit will be below 3 percent next year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this package of laws is for the good of the country, so I ask you all to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-02-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás László. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-02-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Let us start with perhaps the most far-reaching change, in which this bill contains serious findings, and this is the situation of private pension funds. Let us briefly consider how we got to this point before making some thoughts on the proposal. First of all, what's in the current bill is the many, perhaps the last blackmail. Last blackmail to people who still have some savings. Years ago, Fidesz promised to protect private pension funds to some 3 million people in the private pension fund. We saw the fate of that promise. The fate of this promise has been that some 3 million people have lost some HUF 3000 billion in savings, and to date, it is not known exactly what they spent it on. That's how Fidesz protected the private pension fund. It is not possible to know exactly what it was spent on; part of it is to reduce public debt, that is clear, this is roughly half of this savings. But what the exact fate of the additional money has been, to this day, cannot be known without a doubt. Since then, the word "protection" has been synonymous with "robbery." Fidesz also promised people at the time that it would introduce individual pension accounts, which would make it clear to everyone what kind of pension it could expect in the future. That promise didn't turn out to be anything either. Fidesz didn't introduce the system of individual accounts. As a result, just to be clear, future pensions will not depend on how much contributions are paid or on the amount of contributions your employer pays to the pension fund after a person's earnings, but will depend solely on the amount of revenue that the State will receive from contributions in that year and to what extent it can distribute to pensioners. The income acquired during a career and the contributions thereof are ultimately separated from the amount of pension that the former worker will be entitled to after retirement. I would also like to make it clear that there will be serious holes in the pension system in 10-15 years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In 2010 they were!]] At the time, precisely this demographic change was the guiding motif when the private pension fund systems were developed and introduced, and it became clear that the population figures, as a result of this movement, could not be paid from contributions to people and pensioners at some point in the future, which is now not too far away. This is why the system of the private pension fund was introduced, which was precisely the idea that not only contributions would be used in the future, but everyone whose employer pays contributions to the private pension fund and pays a certain amount personally into the system of private pension funds, thereby complementing the public pension, thus supporting the return of these contributions in their old age. [[10.50]] In essence, nothing is happening at the moment, the private pension fund system, which is otherwise suffering from some of the diseases of the child, you want to eliminate it without putting anything extra into the pension system in exchange for ten or fifteen years from now. The consequences are clear: in some ten to fifteen years, only a much lower amount of contributions, less pensions than today's pensions will be paid, although this will no longer be your government's responsibility and responsibility. At the same time, leaving such a burden on the ten to fifteen years from now, leaving such a legacy for posterity, knowing that the state pension system alone will not be sufficient to pay for normal, evaluable retirement pensions in fifteen years' time. Even so, after such a series of blackmails, there were more than 60,000 people who decided not to believe you - by the way, you did well - and to keep their private pension savings. Now it's their turn. The government's going after their fortune. [[Dr. István Nagy: The awards are not paid.]] I'd like to tell you what system you've created. Firstly, a regulation has been introduced which does not provide for the operation of private pension funds. In addition to the current legislation, private pension funds' assets are slowly falling behind. However, this process is partly due to your regulation, not because private pension funds alone would be inoperable. You therefore apply the principle, not for the first time under your government, that first you create rules to destroy an otherwise well-functioning system in the long term, and then you suggest that the system does not work well, that it will be permanently terminated. It's your way. That's exactly what's going on right now. If the bill is passed by the Parliament, you will receive the savings of the remaining more than 60,000 private pension fund members with a pen stroke of HUF 200 billion, stealing people's money; because, yes, this is the money of the cashier members. When they decided to remain voluntarily in this system, it was precisely predictable how much wealth and wealth they had. These people are self-conscious citizens thinking about their own pensions and their future pensions, who can rightly demand that this money be theirs at some point; at some point they should have it and become a source of their pension supplements. That's what you're stealing from them. They don't give anything in return, except for the return, of course, but that would be the minimum. In return, they will also be pushed into the public pension system, the pension scheme that I just told you about, in fifteen years' time, will face a serious lack of resources. Second, they are trying to protect people, which we now know exactly what it means in your language. When you're trying to protect someone, in practice, it means you're trying to rob them. Our position is clear, this wealth, this average saving of 3-4 million forints, you simply cannot take away. This must remain with their rightful owner. It would be worth considering how to make the private pension fund system viable, as opposed to your current regulation, which really allows it to grow in private wealth and generate more and more returns so that fair resources can be made available under the conditions of the fund's operation. This is, therefore, one of the most serious consequences of this package of laws if, in this form, this House accepts this proposal. The other very serious package in this bill is the transformation of social assistance. Unfortunately, the formula is simple here too, and of course, you generously allow the municipalities to continue to exercise their own powers, relying on their own income, to operate a social support system in some municipalities, but they are now not providing them with the resources they need. In practice, this will rewrite the social support system of a large part of the municipalities and cut their limits. In return, they are pushed to impose essentially any taxes on their settlements, but we know the practice: municipal authorities, unlike the government, do not signify that many taxes are levied locally, otherwise this practice is correct. As a result, less money remains for social aid. Within the social support system, you will eliminate housing support. The debt management aid and service will be abolished. You will eliminate reasonable public health care. You will eliminate the fair care fee. You will eliminate the kindergarten support. The integration support programme will also be terminated, so that in future stakeholders will no longer be able to participate, inter alia, in the individual skills-enhancing or lifestyle-forming occupations, counselling or preparation for work. With this package of measures and reducing municipal subsidies, they will bring the country into a social disaster after years when all domestic and foreign analysts write about a clear and tragic process. There is clear and tragic evidence that poverty is growing in the country year after year [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: until 2010.]] More and more people are in a more desperate situation. All the data, all the research that's been made in this area over the past few years, all the evidence. And in a situation like this, what do you do? They are not trying to remedy the problem, but they are adding to the problem by removing the forms of aid currently in place, so to speak, by means of a feather stroke, and by reducing the support of municipalities in this area. Compared to this, there are still some minor but notable episodes hidden in the legislative package. One of the little things is that one of your promises will be postponed again, I mean, your implementation. Earlier, they promised that the corporate tax would be one-key. At the same time, the introduction of this in this bill will be shamelessly postponed by one year, and this promise will also become nothing next year. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And last but not least, foam on the cake is proof of your hasty and unpredictable governance in this bill to amend the recently adopted tax package at several points. The ink has not yet dried on the tax package adopted on 18 November, and you are already making seven amendments to this bill and the abolition of a number of provisions for entry into force. The question arises: if a few weeks after the adoption of the tax package it is necessary to amend this adopted tax package at all, do you even know what you want to do? This is not the first time we have discussed it here in Parliament, but when we discuss the 2015 budget for next year, we are still debating the amendment of this year's budget law. When you submit an amendment to this year's budget, a week or two later, the Commission's amendments will radically rewrite the bill that has already been tabled, and in two weeks' time, you have had new ideas; and in this bill, as I have already mentioned, you want to amend a number of amendments to the tax package adopted on the 18th. Well, that's all, but it's not predictable governance. [[11.00]] Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, it contains quite simply unacceptable measures at a number of points in the vast scope of the bill. We do not agree with such a reduction and restructuring of the social support system, we do not agree with the kidnapping of private pension funds, we do not agree with the new sign and fact of unpredictable and hasty governance. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported by the Socialist Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-02-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue the debate. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are discussing the laws on which the budget is based. Our budget, after four years of governance, I can say that it is a consistent and established budget. Therefore, there are no new elements of the system in the laws amending the budget, except perhaps two, which represent substantive changes. Therefore, I can say that the 110 amending laws contain basically technical amendments and clarifications, except perhaps the ones that we should speak about separately here. The first is about to be a problem of managing government debt. By adopting the new Fundamental Law, the Parliament has incorporated a serious public financial chapter into the Fundamental Law. The Parliament is determined to prevent further debt from being made by the municipalities. This is the first budget year, 2015 for municipalities, when they will be able to start a clean slate, at least they will not have to worry about their debts. Thus, it is understandable that the government's further efforts to stop any possible debt. That is why this amendment comes in the law, that in the future, a government contribution is required for the debt-taking and debt-taking of 100% local government-owned companies. At the same time, this whole system of rules, as the municipalities have turned to the government with such requests, is sufficiently bureaucratic. I think there are rational, streamlined steps going on here, too. It was critical of the former Socialist speaker that we would no longer reduce corporate tax, as we had predicted in 2015 at some point. By the way, we reduced corporate tax to 10 percent for small companies with revenues below HUF 500 million. No doubt it is now stated that we cannot guarantee standardisation, a single 10%, from 2015 onwards, to larger companies, and therefore we are pushing the deadline for this. Mr Burány expressed the criticism that we were going through the tax laws that have already been adopted. When we passed the tax laws, we knew we were going to get involved - I'm going to tell you a workshop secret. The government has a vision, but the tax laws are made up by Parliament. So the fact that Parliament is changing tax laws does not seem to me to be unnatural. We didn't know that by examining the new house rule, we couldn't carry the will of Fidesz and KDNP's faction through the procedure of tax laws at that time, so we deliberately chose this technique to make corrections in the current legislative package. For the record, where corrections are made, it means facilitation for taxpayers. To say one thing, when the excise security has been properly raised, and now we are saying that we are making it laned to make it more bearable for the little ones, this can be assessed as an facilitation. Or if the minimum limit of the administrative fine was set at HUF 200,000 in strict procedures, we now say that this should be HUF 100 thousand for companies with lower turnover, this is an additional facilitation. So it's not a tragedy for entrepreneurs to experience these small corrections, which, I'm telling you, we couldn't have handled otherwise, but we're basically talking about facilitations, and it's good for everyone to know. There would be substantial changes in the private pension fund system, as we believe. Mr Burány here has just shed tears and talked about theft, although the Secretary of State has made it clear in his presentation what is the essence of this transformation. You know very well that the mandatory private pension fund system, its title, was telling when it was created, was actually organised for public funding, so it was launched. You know that the whole thing was a mistake, and now all the analyses say that, as the IMF forced this on the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, it has proved to be ineffective in this system. We're not saying that we have a problem with self-care. The self-care provided by the voluntary pension fund system, as mentioned in the State Secretary's Expo, is also encouraged by tax incentives. What's the matter, what's the problem with the private pension system? Three million people have moved to our suggestion, to our proposal, to the social security system, their problem has been solved in this respect, their pension is guaranteed by the state. There were another 60,000 people who wanted to stay in this system. There is nothing wrong with that at all, but it is clear that a number of private pension funds exist only to survive, because members simply fail to fulfil the obligations they have undertaken. And sooner or later, it's obviously a total failure. Some pay, others sit, look forward to good luck, waiting for them to retire from this system someday. The state cannot be as irresponsible as it was in many cases in the time of the Socialist Government in this area and in other areas to watch this system collapse, because then these people, when they hope for a pension, just don't get help from the state. That is why we are making further corrections here, and we are saying that the compulsory winding-up of the private pension fund where 70 percent of the members will no longer meet their obligations to make such payments in the future. But those in there can get away with it if they're serious, because they can either go into social security or go to another private pension fund. So it's about theft, the withdrawal, and the retrocession, Congressman Burány, and you know it, there's no such thing in this system. I think that the government is looking forward here when it comes to this proposal before the Parliament. The other amendment, which the Socialist Member also spoke about a lot, and this is a substantial correction in the system, is a rethink of the whole social support system. What was it that described the system so far? From here, the government, from the height of Budapest, with the involvement of the legislator, defined for each settlement what benefits should be provided at the end. We, who have lived this system as mayors from the end, often knew that this system was unfair. Those who could hide part of their income from the authorities often received aid, others who could not do so with such skill, and those who made criticisms about this system. And at the end of the day, the mayor or notary, who was the executor of this system, spread his arms and said that this system might be unfair, but that's how the legislator decided. That is why we are entering this system, basically with the intention of making the system more fair and transparent. Another reason for this change is what this government has been for a long time, that we do not want many, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people forced into aid, but we want them to make a living from work. So we also want a number of people from this world of relief, and every year more and more people, if not otherwise, to get jobs through public employment, and to provide these people with better livelihoods than job opportunities. That's why we're remodeling aid. [[11.10]] Aid remains a normative system, which is essentially regulated by the Parliament through law, and the executive of this will be the district institution system by the state. Older people's benefits are a substitute for occupation and care for people with health impairments. The care fee and public health care, which is subject to certain conditions, remain in this system provided by the State and implemented by the districts. And there will be another part of the aid that becomes a municipal task. We believe that settlements, since this will be a mandatory task, where they have good tax power, will be able to provide this task from their own resources in the future, and of course we are well aware that, in an even larger number of settlements, especially small settlements, where they have less tax power, will not be able to do so from their own resources, so the state will be able to provide resources for this. For this support scheme, which we call municipal aid, the social law sets only the framework, the objectives, and gives municipalities a great deal of movement to address the types and conditions of such benefits in the regulation. But once again, it is important that the state, the government, also provides resources to these settlements. I could talk about a lot of minor amendments, but I'm not doing that now, in the absence of time. I would like to say that in the two areas where the legislator makes comprehensive amendments - once again, this is a change in social assistance and private pension funds - we consider them justified by the KDNP and will therefore support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-33	Mr President, Dear House, The package put before us by the government, which I hope will be debated here - so not only will everyone tell theirs, but there will also be meaningful rejoinders - is, in fact, a chaotic one, and contains reviews of previous government decisions two weeks, four weeks, six weeks ago. Therefore, it can be concluded that there is a hasty, unthinkable, unconventional thing ahead of us. However, it does not fully stand in its place, because there are very serious mines hidden in this package, in addition to not concealing its achievements, because it does contain a tax relief of one or two, which, if it were to be presented to us, I would be so very supportive that the "yes" button would come out of the line, but the problem is that we have received salads again and that we can't support otherwise positive initiatives with a good heart if they hide the ones they have. In addition to changing the tax package again after two weeks - I say, there are good and there are bad elements in this, this could be debated - the most amazing, however, is communication without a long-term concept or a sign of what they are doing and doing in the case of so-called private pension fund assets. It has been said here that 3 million people have returned to the state system at your suggestion - a very strong suggestion - and I would not have had a serious objection to that, because I know the operation of the compulsory private pension fund system, the local free robbery that took place in this area, and that, indeed, Hungarian people's savings have been put at very serious risk here. But the violent method chosen by the government is unacceptable not only because most of the revenue was then applauded for the so-called sovereign debt reduction, while the public debt is constantly increasing, but also because, at the moment, when the remaining 60 thousand people would be involved in the management of their savings, I feel that - if not so - the government is not guided by the guarantee of the long-term pension and security of supply for the people concerned, but merely that it would like to add an extra buffer of around 200 billion to the budget, so a reserve stock from which it can then work, as I would later explain that at least four or five very serious items threaten the achievement of your budget expectations. It is obvious, and it is clear from this package that we are about to receive, that it is not about you introducing individual pension accounts, as you promised earlier. Only in this way would it be possible to verify and follow the benefits of Hungarian people's contributions and contributions in their old age. Now they're saying they're taking over the management of these 60,000 people's assets. Once again, this could be done, along with a well-thought-out concept, to consider the current and this type of private pension scheme, there would be a possibility, a place and a reason. However, to say that the state system guarantees their security in old age is not only impertinent, it is a lie. It has been said here by the socialist lead speaker - by the way, the point of view is right, the time is less so - that the collapse of the state system, if I remember correctly, is likely to happen in the 10-15 years. Indeed, this was the model of the Hungarian National Bank two or three years ago, which was also mentioned at a self-care conference, but this Hungarian national banking model has not weighted its model with the amazing volume of emigration. Since then, this situation has deteriorated dramatically, and there are no 10-15 years for the government, any government at the time, to balance this with any kind of labulation. It must therefore be said that what we have before us is a symptomatic treatment, a step to increase budget revenue, but it does not say a stinky word about long-term security, since there is no systemic solution to this. And let us not forget that, in parallel with the faltering of the contributors, the second budget year will now begin when pension payments need to be replaced, and there are far from enough contributors to cover this burden. According to professional analyses, in the long term, Hungary will pay 1200 billion a year for the repayment of public debt only in terms of interest charges, and once again, according to professional analyses, the annual demand to supplement the pension or social fund can rise to at least this level in a ten-year perspective, since the system is quite simply impossible to generate more revenue. That's what we need to find a solution to, that's what a budget should be about. On the other hand, what do we see? The fact that the problem is not even perceived by the government is merely planning revenue-enhancing measures for a budget and a national economy where the growth of national income, not GDP, but national income, is not expected at all. Otherwise, in relation to the 112 amendment package - not 110, as has been said here by one of the authors - we must say that there are two or three very serious mines that affect Hungary's situation in the long term. Here, I could highlight, say, 111. § 9 which is loosely and quite simply about taking out various rules on conflicts of interest and restrictions to date on budget support financed from domestic funds. I would add that we are talking about legislation, which was adopted mainly in 2007, which was not always done by the socialists who treated public funds fairly, and you want to relax a step further. So it would be quite amazing to allow, in the case of domestic grants, for public funds, tender funds, budget subsidies, relatives, family members and acquaintances to obtain funds that they have not yet had access to or have had difficulty in obtaining. But the fact that these security factors are removed in this system is quite amazing, and once again I say it can be treated as an impertinent step, especially because, on the basis of these limitations, for example, Kehi's investigation has rightly attacked payments and assessments in Norwegian-based data requests which, in my view, it is legitimately disputed by this organisation. It should be said that there is a very serious item in this package, and this is the so-called food market giant charge, as the common language puts it. In this context, there is a very important change, namely that this is entirely part of budget revenue. So, once again, we are saying that, according to the professionally justified view, these have so far been the income of the Nebih, and from this, market surveillance procedures have been put in place. Once again, they want to increase the revenue side of the budget by removing the resources from long-term investments and forms of investment and by sucking the air away. After all, this award has clearly served so far so that the Nebih can carry out very important market surveillance processes. And it can be seen that from now on it can be interpreted as budget revenue, which should be used to carry out controls on the market, also explains why the government intends to increase the fees for traders from 2015 onwards. Earlier, they had to pay 0.1 percent of their annual turnover as food chain monitoring fees, now switching to a fixed-band system and increasing to a maximum of 6 percent. It would also be appropriate to better burden the multinational networks, involve them in the burden-sharing, but the government finds some rather unprofessional ways to do this, as it continues to allow the networks concerned to take them out, to pump out their profits, their capital from the country, thus bypass public burdens and not tax them in Hungary. [[11.20]] Now, a government bill has come in that, if there is a loss in these companies, its units could be closed, or even if they cannot be closed, but let's say, food could not be sold by a large supermarket dealing in food trafficking, but we have to see that this alone allows only a back-up deal between the government and the affected mega-enterprises to bring it out for a little profit, pay something, then the revenue side of the budget is better off, the government is calming down, and we don't even have to close the plant units. Instead of taking this huge capital stock of thousands of billionaires coming out of Hungary, they would be involved in public burdens, trying to act with such amateur ways, while taking away from the very important market surveillance activity the source that has been fully justified at Nebih. And we also have to say that, since the budget revenue of approximately HUF 30-40 billion can also be generated according to market expectations, we are once again concerned that the government is, for some reason, pushing the revenue side of the budget against all logic, trying to obtain revenue from everywhere. The settlement government bond also has a huge expectation of raising the price, while we are not talking about a commodity, we are talking about Hungarian citizenship and a residence permit. So it is worth figuring out what dangers there are in the budget, what the government is so afraid of and terrified of, because it can be seen that it is panickingly trying to take action on the revenue side, which means that if it is able to raise the results in just a few ten billion, but slightly higher. It fell out, didn't it, the mass of the expectations of Internet tax revenue, here the average market estimate was 25 billion, there were those who estimated more, who estimated less of what could come in, this fell out. Interestingly, the expected revenue increase of HUF 40 billion from the e-toll was not very detailed by the government. As has been said in the press reports, so we are talking about an income expectation that we cannot see behind either the source or the process, perhaps not even the government. The worst of all, however, is the uncertainty about the expectations of VAT revenues, because here the government planned an extra 160 billion on this line, and it is quite simply invisible how, from what source, to whom it is burdened. We know who would be burdened with this 160 billion, because the burden always comes down to consumers, customers and customers, but it is quite amazing that such numbers are going to be here, and not only is the justification missing from them, but also the idea. You can see that the so-called government back-dancing in the cafeteria cases also shortens your initial expectations by about 30 billion, and you can see that they are now being replaced by a package of very serious interventions amending 112 laws before us. And here, too, we can see that the justified increase in the food chain inspection fee, not in this form, but in a fair, foldable way, and the additional burden on tobacco companies, which I also do not want to raise here, are all steps that try to compensate for these dangers and losses. But to see that by involving the management or remainder of the private pension fund's assets, so with this 200 billion forints worth of property as a miracle weapon, this government can solve anything here, it is a complete and total mistake. After all, it is clear that this does not only make the pension system more predictable, we cannot talk about old-age security, and that would require two things to be done. Firstly, the transfer of real individual pension accounts through the system should finally show and show what a Hungarian person is entitled to after his contributions, where he is at the heart of his life, and what he can expect even for his elderly years. What is reality on the other hand? On average - and not only do I say regional average, I can say national - one quarter of Hungarian men unfortunately die before they can take pension, and then, if Hungary is the most... [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] That's right! If you look at the most backward regions of Hungary and you can wave at me, but not at me, but at those who are affected, four of the 20 most backward regions of the European Union are in Hungary, my fellow Members. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Don't argue with me, disprove me. Four of the most lagging regions in the EU are in Hungary. In these regions, the majority of Hungarian people and Hungarian men live on average for five to six years after their pension entitlement, and then die, so they cannot enjoy and use old age security. On the other hand, you maintain a pension system, which is constantly lacking in one leg, the contributors and the revenue side, less and less accessible, less and less and less and no longer respond to the fact that you wish to slow down and reduce emigration, which is how you could keep the contributors at home, not create a public, comprehensive wage-building and home-building programme, so that young people can be more easily kept at home and not put in place means that this pension system could be predictable. Once again, the collapse will not take place in 10-15 years, but much sooner, because the amazing weight of emigration will make the lack of contributors more visible. And by collapse, don't mean there won't be a public pension, but there will be, the pay-out-type pension system can't collapse in a classic sense, but it can only get to a situation where you raise the retirement age to, say, 70 years, and where appropriate, allocate between EUR 100 and 200, in proportion to the revenue side. So there really is no lower limit here, nor does the government guarantee that there should be at least one lower limit for basic livelihoods, which all pensioners must have. Thus, these long-term threats are not eliminated from the system, while public opinion is stunned by the need to take action on private pension funds because there is a need to ensure the safety of Hungarian people in the elderly. Well, we really need to, but not in this way, in such a way that in a long-term, predictable and growing system, the Hungarian national economy, the current Hungarian government, can guarantee the old-age safety of all our countrymen regardless of external processes. We can't even see a sign of that right now. We very much hope that you have been able to raise at least one or two thoughts about not only taking symptomatic treatments, but also making the life of Hungarian citizens predictable, not every two weeks, because very many people leave Hungary because they cannot tolerate this unpredictableness. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Szél, will be speaking here on the stand. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-02-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In fact, I begin by saying that there is only one acceptable reason why the apparatus that you are dealing with has been so widened up, so much so that now, if I go out into the hallway, a secretary of state or an assistant secretary of state is coming at me every minute, and that would be the reason for doing quality work in lawmaking. Now, this product that you put on the table is not part of the quality work again. We're talking about an extremely hasty, fast-built bill. On the one hand, this is also the result of the salad character, but it also follows from the fact that they are trying to formulate their own rather confusing ideas in a completely untraceable way. In fact, we are not surprised that the spirit of this law reflects the content of the entire 2015 budget, which is to cement the austerity of previous years, and that for millions of people in the country there remains a lack of prospects and vulnerability. However, I do not see it at all as my fellow Member, Mr János Harghitai, sees that there are merely technical modifications here. Of course, theft also has technology, this bill is abundant in it, that if that is what you mean by it, I agree with it, but otherwise there is no good-meaning reading of the proposals that are being formulated in this bill, or of the proposals that are being left out of this bill. What I see is, of course, there is a narrow layer that will continue to benefit from the fact that you are in government. It will continue to serve your elite, enriching your friends and facial toasters, and you will be able to do so more easily if this bill passes. It seems, by the way - and think about it a little bit - that since the elections, the public uproar has started precisely because you are so brazen about public money in this country, and the fact that you put such paragraphs on the table proves that you do not perceive anything at all. Quite simply, if you looked around the country a little, you wouldn't dare put such billings on the table. The first such amendment - to talk about specifics - concerns the fact that there is a rule that you simply repeal, and that rule forbade decision-makers to share public funds with their own families. Annex VI is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. In Section 68 of Chapter I, as pointed out by atlatszo.hu, you simply repeal a few paragraphs. [[11.30]] We had a law, CLXXXI of 2007 on the transparency of public funds. Law, which states that NGOs, churches and associations which conclude cooperation agreements with a party cannot be supported. You're erasing this now. Who do you want to give it to again? I'll tell you again, this one has no other reading. They're erasing it because you're trying to give someone money. Who do you want to give money to? The other particular thing, and what's even more serious, I think, is that 54. In paragraph 62 of Section 62, virtually all spending on public finances and each of its sub-schemes is excluded from the scope of the Public Finance Transparency Act. I think that, of course, the secretary of state sitting here with us, you are aware of the gravity of the move, but I repeat that it is here that most of the public funds are simply excluded from the transparency rules. The only question is, is there any other interpretation of this than that you want to take these money home? By the way, this measure eliminates the extremely strict transparency rules that were adopted exactly under the previous government, when EU funds were affected by scandals, precisely so that it would not be so easy to steal in the country, in the case of tenders, decisions and contracts, they simply provided one protection against theft, precisely. And there comes the third outrageous moment. The conflict of interest rules that simply excluded government members - I stress, members of government - and the family members of other state leaders and decision-making people from the state will be eliminated. So what I can tell you is that, by the way, this could have been done in several steps so far, you're not playing around anymore, you want the money in one step. It is practically possible to increase family wealth by one step out of public money. Still, I don't see how you're thinking of putting a paragraph like that on the table. Is that what the KDNP fellow Member says, "technical modification"? I'm telling you, this is about stealing technology. You have codified it in this bill. It's outrageous that they even thought of that. I could put it this way, and the whole budget has such a spirit that you're here to tax everything you can't run away with and steal everything you want, take home everything you don't have in cement. In addition, the transparency rules would also be abolished for EU funds. There's something else we've discovered here. For the past four years, we've been beating you up a lot for what you've done to the tramps, the dirt dogs and the likes of scoundrels. You must have been very disturbed by this, because you have decided that losing applications should not be retained from now on. Why don't we just keep losing applications? I'll tell you. I think they're simply trying to cover their tracks, so they don't want you to be dragged into what they've been doing here for the past four years. Let's keep going. You talk a lot about educator society, but what I care about is how much money you give these people. What I see, and this was relatively unexpected in this bill, is that they vary the wage increase so that they do not give it, because they choose a completely illogical solution for me, basically, they are comparing the increase to last year's minimum wage, which does not increase. So there is a fixed amount of a fixed year, and compared to that, a raise should be added to a number that varies from year to year. What does that mean? It means you take thousands of forints a month out of the teachers' pockets, so they give you something to take away. Are you so proud of that? But why do they have the reason why they were based on last year, and why they want to compare it to why they can't properly and fairly give us the raise we've been waiting for for so long, because it's just a sham, so that if we go on a TV show, then you can tell us that you gave it to the teachers. But what's behind it? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 38 billion HUF!]] Behind it, they take a lot of money out of their pockets at the same time. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 38 billion HUF plus!]] Mr. Secretary, you'll have a chance to speak, please. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Asked, I answered.]] Plus, what I see is that you claimed that you wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road. It's either crying or smiling. I think the side of the road is filling up in this country. The government has clearly decided that some of the Hungarian citizens do not want to take care of them. You chose the solution that I remember when Secretary of State Károly Czibere put down the concept of NSZK, it was also that there was a strong normative central support and that extra support could be given locally. Now we have the Secretary of State - not here at this time, but at the State Secretary's Office - but he's saying something completely different now. Now we see the government leaning back, raising his hand, and telling the settlements to do pretty much everything. You, and you keep repeating that, these are such magic words, they say that this will become a fair, transparent and non-abuse system. The opposite is true. Why would it be fair to increase inequality? Why would it be more transparent when it changes from settlement to settlement, how much money can a socially deprived person expect? And why would this be more transparent and non-abuseful when, in practice, the municipalities will be able to consider, saying that you think that you see better relations on the spot? On the other hand, I think that this will, in a way, give rise to the possibility that, where appropriate, a socially dependent person may become a victim of revenge. I've seen this before in my practice. So I think that what they're doing doesn't make any sense at all, except that they're pulling money out of this already bleeding system again, and, let's just say, according to our calculations, the relief might even be halved. I find it particularly outrageous what you do with your kindergarten support. We all know this, who are here in Parliament, that at present almost half of Hungarian children under the age of seven are deprivied, i.e. living in some way in poverty. You are using this situation to take care of and plow in kindergarten support. Do you understand? It's gone. They say they don't have to, because next year, every kid from the age of 3 has to go to kindergarten. But I beg you, you know that when a child goes to kindergarten, he needs clean clothes, shoes, he needs a lot of things. Why is this support now being abolished? How do they commit to taking another child poverty-enhancing measure in a country with child poverty indicators? I think, and you know this precisely, who are in the business, that especially where it comes to the kindergarten of children with multiple disadvantages, we need to be particularly sensitive. Those kids just need a lot of stuff. Why are they taking this money away from these families? By the way, I see that there are mixed measures in the area of return to work. There are rules that inexplicably hinder job placement; for example, I do not know what to think of the introduction of an administrative service fee, which is another sarcasm, and they want to be paid by organisations providing labour market services who help you to do the job. Why are you framing your best friends? Is it really that these organisations, which take over the tasks of the state, must become victims of a completely unnecessary collection of money? This is completely incomprehensible to me. This morning, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári was a little offended when I spoke about a community service trap. But what I see in this law is that you know exactly that you have created a public works trap, because you are beginning to implement the proposals that, I am not saying, are exactly the same, but are beginning to resemble what the LMP has been saying for four years now. We said to put public workers in employment status; of course, you would lose the fantastic opportunity to talk about constantly improving unemployment figures, but you would practically help a lot of people find jobs. We do not see this in this proposal. However, we can see that at least public workers can get a job interview. That's fantastic. I think it's a very radical step. I think that's how this whole thing should have started. It's not a state of affairs that public workers can't go on a job interview, and I don't think it's a condition that they can't go to school because I didn't talk to a public worker who wasn't allowed to go to training because of the rules. I also see - there is one good step to say one more positive - that jobseekers under the age of 25 who do not receive unemployment benefits do not have to accept community service. I also think it is a good step that, for people over the age of 25, if they do not participate in a labour market programme or do not receive a labour market service, they will be in a similar situation. So the way I see it, they're starting to move a little in a direction where they admit that public work doesn't help the job, but it can become the most important barrier, by the way, by the fact that public workers get out of the field of sight of the labour centres, they simply stick to it, and they stay in a situation where they become invisible to companies that would otherwise offer jobs, like employment centres, which would help them to get there. But I'm gonna tell you right now that I think it's amazing that, in a small piece of shit, the National Labour Office is being plowed, so you're going to terminate this independent institution, and you're going to be subordinate to NGM, the Ministry of National Economy. What I've seen so far is that every time you've melted down or merged an institution, you've always done this because this function has been decommissioned and terminated. Consider, for example, the fate of the National Safety Inspectorate. The same thing happened, they were melted into government offices. From this point on, the number of inspectors has decreased, controls have been reduced and the deterrent force is virtually converging to zero. What I see is that this country needs a modern employment centre and a labour institution system, in which the employment agency has a very important role to play, as they do professional background work, measure the effectiveness of programmes, collect data and produce regular reports. [[11.40]] You may not really need these, because you have this concept that by 2018, everyone here will have some kind of work, mostly community service, as I consider it. But do they really think that this psychological moment, when they cannot live in Hungary, work poverty is in the sky, and poverty is in the sky - the indicators - are they plowing in such an important institution at the moment? Of course, all in the slammer, so that no one would notice, he's hiding in the salad law. I would also add that with regard to waste management - it is a salad, so I have to talk about so many topics, you put this together, so in relation to waste management - I also have to make criticisms. What I see is that they still haven't given up on government level to completely subdue the waste management sector. The fact that this whole process is not in the interests of the Hungarian population and its customers in general is also evidence, and we can also see from the budget itself and the amendments submitted to it that they must support this sector continuously. On the one hand, there is talk of cuts in overhead and on the other hand, these sectors are constantly receiving support from the same taxpayers because they have actually started in a completely wrong direction. I also see that these revenues are not used at all by you to run waste management, but simply to draw them away and demonstrate how much chaos there is in the whole system. Understand, the injured are always the consumer, always the person who stands at the end of the system. I would add that the National Waste Management Agency will be terminated. They invested billions of forints in building this organization, communication system, car park, everything. I hope that this public money will be accounted for in connection with its termination. Once they've created it, they've invested taxpayers' money, now they're gonna cut it, tell us what they've made of those public funds where they're putting them. By the way, I may have one more sentence left in me that the billing system is being certified again. By the way, the accounts have already been certified, so check your previous accounts. Now here's another smoke tax on this, which will obviously send the smaller companies to the floor, but it will also cost the big companies more. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] However, I would like to add that the criteria for the new certification system clearly lead strongly to Fidesz's close-up. Thank you.
u2014-12-02-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for the first independent Member. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is difficult to grasp what the bill is like in front of us. Is this a textbook example or a mirror of steering or a drop of the sea? It is a certain package of proposals, which, if it were to be made compulsory, Fidesz would not be able to govern any further in Hungary. What is this bill about? This law is about (1) taking a lot of money from people who need our support the most; (2) taking more money from those who have saved money from their own income for their old age. Finally, they allow this money to be given to themselves, their families, and their relatives. They'd be standing in Putin's country applauding this Fidesz kleptocracy. If that is not the government's objective, please withdraw this proposal as a matter of urgency. I will not go through this absurd package of proposals point by point, the law on which the 2015 budget is based, but I would like to explain these three elements a little bit better, because this is an excellent demonstration of your thinking, namely: the abolition of the aid system, the extension of the remaining pension insurance, private pension fund savings and the fact that you want to support yourself from state resources. If something is outrageous, this combo, this package is indeed. Let's start with the latter one. In recent days, civil society organisations such as Transparent, Transparency International or K-Monitor have been calling attention to the fact that by drawing out conflict of interest rules, Fidesz would allow the support of family members or companies of state leaders, who were so proud of these conflicts of interest a few years ago. I know, of course, that you believe that these NGOs are foreign agents fighting against Hungarian popular democracy, but it is good to know that these organisations fought corruption very critically during the previous government as well. However, this does not change the fact that Fidesz wants to support state leaders with public money. How surprising it would be if state leaders, who decide to use public funds, considered it more important to pay for the activities that their wives, family members, siblings, brothers-in-law and perhaps run by their own companies, say, to support competition. This is not a hotbed of corruption, it is corruption itself, and it is a law. On that basis, you could stand up to people saying you're sorry, but we'd like to steal, but that would be on purpose. Therefore, it is better to turn the massive drain of state money into a complicated legal language. Obviously, this proposal is completely unacceptable. And those who support this need to know that they are involved in corruption, just as they are in voting for traffikkuty. You can apologize that I only acted on party orders, but in fact, everyone knows what this type of amendment serves. It means that people's money can be misplaced in the companies of government members without counting. This is particularly outrageous when the government has decided to cut all social support, i.e. taking money from people who need it the most; unemployed who are unable to find a job, and not because they do not want to work, but because where they live there is not enough public work, let alone a market job that provides a normal living. They take money from mothers and families who want to send their children to kindergarten so that they don't break away from their peers when they're little children; from the two and a half million owners who can't pay their outstanding bills despite the government's sound reduction. They take money from children who don't get enough to eat because they don't have anything to eat. Fidesz also reduces the framework for children's meals, while it feels it is extremely important to amend the law so that state leaders can receive budget support. This is the most outrageous proposal within a law you can't imagine at all. If that wasn't enough, Fidesz would also take the savings of the remaining private pension fund members. The previous round was also great, and a significant part of the money was supposed to be used to reduce public debt. Well, the public debt in Hungary today is huge. What do people see from all of this? What conclusion can you have from your activities? They see what the government takes from them, let alone preserve, rather than invest, it squanders, sells, steals. No wonder they trust private pension funds more than they trust Fidesz. The truth is, I'd rather buy a used car from them. But of course, Fidesz makes it clear who's in charge of the house: it doesn't tolerate counter-opinion, and people are moving their savings abroad to an increasing extent, obviously, because they don't know when the government's teeth will hurt their private bank account. I understand them, because, by nationalising the remaining HUF 200 billion in pension savings, Fidesz is abducting investments in the future in an unconstitutional way, with the support of the Constitutional Court painted orange. Dear Parliament, If only these three elements, another punishment for those in need, the acquisition of the remainder of the private pension fund savings and the small-scale financing of the family members and companies of state leaders were included in the bill, a man of good morals would not accept it if there were to be a threat from gangsters. Please don't do that either. Think of the people who are now over half a million and who are not receiving any treatment from the state. They live day by day, many of them starve, and their children will live in poverty, because there is no way out of this trap. If you vote for this law out of greed, party loyalty, or neglect, then there will be more of you who will not have the chance to rise out of poverty, who are not asking what shirt to wear to the evening reception, but whether they can heat with winter and give food to their children the next day. Well, Hungary's economic development allows us to reduce poverty, not to take, but to give more to those in need, to help those in need and to teach everyone to get ahead in life. [[11.50]] After Viktor Orbán's government, the wealthiest ten percent of his income has increased, but it has fallen to all the other people, but it can be reversed, it is only a matter of political will and some courage. Please be brave and say no to the eradication of the social system and the punishment of the poor. Make it clear that your government does not punish the poor, the fallen, and not only looks at its own interests, but, above all, the needy, who must be helped. That might make the 21st really different. 20th century Hungary is the 20th century From the beginning of the century. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to respond to the partial speeches on the subject of poverty. Mr Burány, and last time, there were suggestions on this. I'd like to give you a number or two. Indeed, poverty has increased, especially since 2008. At some point in 2011, the situation was the worst in Hungary, but since then we have seen improvement. For example, in view of the most recent child poverty, child poverty has fallen significantly since 2011, although there are obviously a lot of children in a difficult line, but the number of children exposed to deprivation has decreased by 10 thousand, while the value of benefits for them has doubled, instead of the previous HUF 29 billion, this year there is HUF 53 billion and next year HUF 57 billion to support the feeding of children with the most difficult fate, so that they receive healthful food more than once every day. The overall poverty figures also increased at EU level, including in Hungary, but at some point in 2011, this growth rate also stopped, and fortunately, poverty in Hungary has not increased since then, and it is still below the EU average. If we look at the three most important statistical directions and compare this, one is relative income poverty, this is living below 60 percent of the median income, the severe material deprivation, which means that the person suffers from material deprivation, or if we look at the very low labour intensity, the summation of so-called labour poverty, they have overall decreased by 2.4 percent since 2011, and the number of people in these three vulnerable categories has decreased by 241 thousand. So this is the largest number of people in around 400,000 who really live in extreme poverty, between 400 and 500 thousand, but if you look at the proportion of total people most exposed to poverty, you can expect a decrease of 241 thousand people, which obviously doesn't happen on your own. No such number is reduced by itself, but thanks to tax policy, employment measures and social policy, the public work programme, which left hundreds of billions of forints for people who used to live on aid. Another hundred billion forints in the next year is the magnitude that will land in their pockets in the next period. The radical increase in the minimum wage is always double to triple compared to what is happening in socialist governments, and the reduction in the cost of living has obviously helped to reduce the cost of living. Many statistics do not take this into account, since what you generally quote from the opposition side is primarily only taking into account the extent of state redistribution, and do not take into account that the free textbook, for example, has reduced spending by 600 to 700 thousand students' parents or the average reduction of textbook prices by 15%. Also, they do not take into account the extent of the reduction in rent, that one of the greatest difficulties is reduced by 20 percent, because if we look at the 9 indicators that, overall, indicate whether someone can be considered poor or not, one of them in Hungary has traditionally been the highest rent and housing costs, from which the rent is obviously less typical for Hungary than for Western European countries, but housing costs, i.e. the rate of the rent was high, we managed to reduce this in the last 4 years, or the coverage of extraordinary expenses was not guaranteed by many Hungarian families. In general, these extraordinary expenses could not be guaranteed, because due to the increased foreign exchange repayments, these loans, these repayments had to be issued by the Hungarian families, so they did not have 60-70 thousand forints for a sudden issue. Therefore, the bill of accountability of the banks, which we have adopted in two rounds this year, and also this indicator, we trust that it will improve. However, I would stress that the high level of housing costs is due to 15 increases in fees under the previous 8 years, and the difficulties associated with extraordinary expenses were also mainly due to the waiver of foreign exchange credit contracts. In conclusion, I would just like to say that not only with family tax reductions, family-type taxation, we managed to help families with many cases of poverty risk, because in many cases someone was poor because they had a lot of children, we managed to alleviate this, because now their gross net income coincides with that, but it is also very important that we have set up an operational programme to support those in need, worth HUF 29 billion, in which we support the parents of children aged 0-3 years, in addition to homeless people and people aged 55 or retired, who live in a poor line. This is mainly done by a food package, so that children not only from the age of 3 years, when the compulsory preschooling has already solved several meals a day in the preschool system, in the public education system, but also before that we can help families who are most deprived with food packages worth HUF 29 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers invited by the Nationality Committee will now take part in a total of 15 minutes' time frame. I would like to inform the Parliament that national minority advocates can use their own mother tongue in their speeches and toasts, if they translate what they have said. First, I will give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, in 15 minutes, as appropriate, which he will use for the time frame. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2014-12-02-41	Thank you very much. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот имeто на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и името на Българското малцинство живущи в Унгария в историческическия момент когато запърви прът се изнася реч на български в Народното Събрание в Унгария. Като Малцинстевн активен наблȚдаел аз имам възможност да ви запознаяза мнението на комисията. Deep down, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Bulgarian nationality in Hungary, to welcome you at this historic moment when the Bulgarian word is first spoken in the Hungarian Parliament. As an advocate, I would like to express the opinion of our committee. Studying T/2141. We would like to make the following statements and comments on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 and on nationalities. The bill Chapter 2 Chapter 12. Article 3 of the general government system. Paragraph 3 of the Act provides that the local government, the local minority self-government and the national minority self-government belong to the municipal sub-scheme of public finances. It is clear from the legislation that the law on public finances regulates national governments, whether local or national, with local authorities. The bill is 12. §, 4/A. § 6/C on the basic rules for the operation of the general government's subsystems Paragraph 2 (2) (a) and (b) provides that in relation to the revenue and expenditure of the local government, planning, management, control, financing, reporting and reporting tasks are to be carried out by the municipal office. This regulation is extended to national authorities by analogy. The bill is 22. § 28/A § 2 and (4) impose an obligation to draw up an elementary budget on local and minority self-governments. According to the bill, it is approved by the mayor in the case of the local government, while by its chairman in the case of the local government. In the draft standard, legal technical clarification was made. The bill is 26. In paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Financial Regulation, it sets out the legal limits on the adjustment of appropriations, the transfer of appropriations and the transfer of appropriations provided for in the Financial Regulation, which covers the maintenance of the identity of the legal arrangements between the local government and the local government. [[12.00]] The bill is 36. § 68/A. Paragraph 1 provides that the control powers of the Treasury shall also cover the examination of the local government, the association of local governments, the regional development council and the budgetary body managed by them. In this regulation, too, there is the need for the legislation of the local government and the national minority self-government to operate on similar principles. The bill is 38. The Minister responsible for nationality policy may apply sanctions for the suspension of funding in the event of failure to fulfil obligations pursuant to Article 3 (6) and (6a) respectively. These provisions are consistent with Article 134 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities. § 2 of the Act provides that if there is no approved budget or discharge of accounts, or if the municipality fails to comply with its reporting obligation, the financing will be suspended. These provisions promote the effectiveness of regularity and financial control. The bill is 47. Article 105/A Paragraph 1 of the Act provides for the same conditions for the establishment and termination of the minority self-government as for local self-governments. The bill is 50. Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union In paragraphs 2 and 5 of Section 2, the obligation of the national government to provide information shall be deemed to be fulfilled if it is fulfilled by the budgetary bodies it manages. Paragraph 5 states that the default is subject to a penalty imposed against the managing body or the local minority self-government. It can also be seen at this stage that the governance of the local government and the minority self-government is based on the same principles and takes place in the same way. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the local government and the local government have been regulated in an analogue manner in the bill. As a result, the bill 12. I quote from Section 14 of the Act amending the Public Finance Act - except for the financial funds of social security, we believe that there is a missing point from the section of the central sub-scheme of public finances, which is intended to support the operation of national authorities and their sectoral tasks. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the T/2141. On the basis of its observations on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015, the draft law proposed 12. In point 14 of Section 4 of the Act on Public Finance, the inclusion of a point aimed at supporting the functioning of the national authorities and their sectoral tasks. Chapter 87 of the Act - Amendment to the Law on the Rights of Nationalities - Articles 336-339 The provisions of this Article shall apply. From a codification point of view, the current 338. § 336 would be appropriate. Article 80 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities It contains an amendment to §2 of the Act, while it seeks to amend the other larger figures. The bill 336. §2 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities and the Law on Public Finances, which aims to fulfil the same obligation, provides for consistency. The bill is 377. §2 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities aligns the norm with the relevant provisions of the Law on Local Governments of Hungary; it contains text-pointing and standardisation at this stage. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the T/2141. As a result of its comments on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2015, Chapter 87 - the National Rights Act - provides for a codification of the current 338. Article 336 It proposes to designate it as §8 of the Act. The bill is 339. Article 156 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities, which is set out in Article 156 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities, is repealed. Paragraph 1 (a) and (b) are not proposed to be repealed. We believe that the government's mandate to establish a regulation is necessary and justified on the basis of practical considerations. The Committee's further comments will be presented to this House by a German spokesman, Imre Ritter. Благодаря завашето внимание. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-02-42	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. In fact, he has already presented the next speaker, Imre Ritter, the German ethnic advocate, to the extent that the 15 minutes remain. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2014-12-02-43	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Ich danke meinem Fürsprecher Kollegen, Herrn Szimeon Varga für seinen Beitrag, und erlassen sie mir seine Rede nicht mit weiteren konkreten Modifizierungsvorschlägen zu ergänzen, sondern eher eine allgemeine, aber sehr wichtige, zusammenfassende Feststellung hinzufügen. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank my Bulgarian spoke colleague, Varga Simeon, for his speech and allow me to add a general but very important summary statement instead of any more concrete amendments. T/2141 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2015 I would like to say the following on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, about the legislative preparation experience we have gained in the last six months. Our fundamental problem is that the preparatory of the legislation does not carry out the consultations required by law with the national minority self-governments, the national minorities living in Hungary, prior to the referral of the legislation to Parliament. What exactly is this about? The national minority self-government is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act 118. It shall deliver an opinion on the draft legislation concerning the nationalities it represents in that capacity, pursuant to paragraph 1 (a). The 2010 CXXX on legislation. Law 19. In accordance with Article 5 (1) of the Act (), I quote:. If the law expressly grants a public, local or other organisation the right to comment on the draft legislation concerning its legal status or function, the preparatory of the legislation must ensure that the body concerned is entitled to exercise that right. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In addition, on 30 May 2011, the thirteen national minority self-governments concluded a strategic agreement and a contract with the Minister of Administration and Justice responsible for preparing the legislation, which aims to establish legislation in the area of nationality that is capable of ensuring that the educational, educational, cultural, linguistic and other rights of nationalities living in Hungary are respected. In other words, if, by chance, there is any legal interpretation doubt in any of the opinions clearly required by the cited legislative instruments, even the Minister of Administration and Administration has concluded a separate strategic agreement to take into account and enforce nationality rights during the preparation of the legislation. Despite this, most of the draft laws and legislative amendments submitted to Parliament in the last six months concerning the rights and interests of nationalities living in Hungary have been submitted without any coordination with the national minority self-governments, that is to say, they have been submitted in violation of the law. We have repeatedly commented on this in recent months at joint committee meetings, hearings and consultations with individual ministries, State Secretarys-General, Deputy State Secretarys, Pre-legislativeers, but so far it has not been a meaningful result. I would also like to make it clear that the election of parliamentary spokespersons, the establishment and operation of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities does not in any way trigger or replace the obligation to consult national minority governments in the preparation of legislation affecting the rights and interests of national minorities in Hungary. On the one hand, the possibility and task of the MEPs, the NEB, is to check whether the consultation with the national authorities during the preparation of the legislation has taken place, and on the other hand, the comments of the national authorities have been taken into account in the draft legislation submitted, if not, why not. [[12.10]] On the other hand, it is our task to give an opinion on the draft legislation submitted, to discuss its representatives and Commission amendments, to submit Commission amendments where necessary, and to represent the interests of nationalities in Hungary during the parliamentary debate in the given timeframes. They do not replace, but complement, the right of national minority self-governments to comment by law. In order to change this breach of law and to prevent its future occurrence, we also call the attention of pre-legals here to compliance with their obligation to consult national minority self-governments, and we also contact the relevant ministries in writing from the NEB. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that if, without prior consultation with national minority self-governments, a draft law on the rights and interests of nationalities in Hungary is submitted to Parliament, and a legislative amendment proposal, we will ask the House Committee not to include the submitted text in a series of articles because of the illegal preparation. We are convinced that, as a result, effective measures can be taken within days in order to avoid dealing with such problems in the Hungarian Parliament from January 2015. We sincerely hope that our critical but necessary and factual findings regarding the preparation of the law will be judged positively, and that we will thus facilitate each other's work, ensuring that legislation complies with the law not only in the Parliament but also in the preparation of the legislation. Danke für die Aufmerksamkeit! Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-02-44	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I asked for a two-minute response because Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has simply made false statements here in the Parliament. I'm sorry that you left the room while you were under Secretary of State. I would like to contrast it with the words of Mr Secretary of State, did he not say that we are better off in terms of poverty and that the situation has improved since 11:00. I would like to say, contrary to the words of the Secretary of State, the reality; if you do not believe me, I would refer to the research of sociologists of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The results of this research have been published in the last few days, and otherwise this conference was opened because, for some mysterious reason, the Central Statistical Office refers to a lack of resources - it does not disclose the latest data on poverty. Well, at the conference of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, sociologists have found that the situation has deteriorated sharply in terms of poverty over the past few years. There is nothing to be said by the Secretary of State that this process has improved since 2011. In fact, most of poverty affects children. All the graphs published suggest that the situation in Hungary has deteriorated sharply in terms of poverty between 2010 and 2013. In fact, we have missed even the Visegrád countries, let alone further from the EU average. The most serious situation is child poverty. I quote this from the findings of scientists. Hungary is particularly driving in this respect in a group with Bulgaria and Romania, which is a particularly big shame about the social policy of the government: in all EU countries, even in Romania, this deteriorating trend has been stopped or reversed, and the situation in Hungary has deteriorated further under your governance. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-02-46	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Mrs Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to respond to the Secretary of State, and I trust that he is in a room where he can hear my words. I think there is still no reason for the government to boast about how they stand with their children's meals. I have already said and I am of the opinion that, while the school year is going on, they have tried to solve the situation with more or less sacrifice, with the help of teachers and kindergarten teachers. But what happens when school is over and it's kindergarten summer break? So what happens? Well, kids usually have nothing to eat when they're poor. So far, the system has provided only one fifth of the children in need with a hot meal once a day during the summer social meals. We have tabled an amendment, the May Other, the policy changer would spend HUF 5 billion on this purpose, to stress that not one fifth of the people in need, but five fifths of the children can receive support in the summer social meals. This HUF 5 billion sheet music is the amount that the Prime Minister's move to the Castle by the way represents. I think that Mr Orbán should not move to the Castle, give this money to the children in need! The second is that the Secretary of State also has a problem with statistics, because I can clearly see that we are now studying the numbers of the HCSO, which are interestingly not the same as Eurostat, but they may have chosen a different period of analysis, I do not know what the reason is, we are looking for it, and we will obviously come back to that. But I can also refer to the MTA research that found that our economic development does not justify such poverty in the country. That's the most important thing. We are also in the background among the Visegrád countries. By 2009-2013, the number of people living in deprivation increased from 20.3% to 26.8 percent. What is the EU average? 9.6%, i.e. much less; in Slovakia 10.2 percent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] So, as long as the numbers are like this, let's not be proud, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-02-48	Thank you very much. We will continue with the speeches by the Members who have signed up in advance. It is next from the group of the MSZP, Mr Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very keen that Minister of State Rétvári should say such things many times, and I would particularly like L. Simon László to be very much involved in the media these days and in the future. Because a cynical government, which does not follow people's problems at all, and which does not deal with problems, has a direct consequence, let's say, of such a bill. We have seen that the budget continues the tradition of pushing what can be pushed up to the rich and, preferably, removing the last skin from that poor layer that is still on it. This is also true of tax laws, and I can safely say that all such legislation is also trying to create a systemic financing gap that basically characterizes the current period. How do I justify this? Here is, for example, what Mr State Secretary has just said, if it is true, about the private pension scheme in the morning, that they are trying to protect us again. I don't think that's necessary. People at the time, when Matolcsy held a gun to their heads and told them that they wanted to protect their money and took it, they promised all kinds of individual bills and stuff, they went through a lot, because the saying was that it would become an individual account, and obviously no one's problem or damage could come from it. In fact, for many people, I do not dispute that the real return of a few hundred thousand forints or a hundred thousand forints or ten thousand forints was useful. They stayed behind because - I can say it calmly - many of us who thought that we would not ask for this protection, we did not want to pay protection money to anyone, and we stayed in the private pension system. Now we're talking about 60 or a few thousand people, but it looks like we still need that 200 billion for something; we don't know what. Now we don't need it for the South Stream; we don't know if Paks is gonna need it, or tomorrow they're gonna announce it's not gonna happen. It is an interesting world, and I think that this should be considered carefully, Mr Secretary, let us say that they do so. [[András Tállai: Only good news!]] But it does not have to be protected, that is the point, and obviously we do not think that this amendment can be accepted. So I think it's one of the hardest parts of this package of laws with a new einstand like this. The other, but I could have started with this, because it really affects the poor people, it's a change in relief. From the time when the budget was a keynote speech and even a ministerial exposé, they tried to put into people what they were trying to say about invalids, that everyone who lives on welfare is a fraud, everyone is a fraud, so they need to transform the system into a way to eliminate these fraudsters from the system, and now they are trying to make people aware that now they are going to give the municipalities this opportunity. [[12.20]] I would like to point out to everyone that the majority of this aid system has been technically operated by the municipalities. So the fact that they got the source and it was labeled - it was quite normative - is one thing. But who needs it or who doesn't need it on the spot has had the opportunity to see if they really need that aid or, as has been said here - in the ministerial exposé, but they may be in the lead speaker's speech from Fidesz - they come to pick it up with BMW. People who come to New Zealand for aid, especially in a village, usually don't drive with BMW, that's what other people do, and they don't wear a million-dollar watch, and they don't go to a Rolling Stones concert in New Zealand; mostly, if they can get batteries in their radio, let's say they listen to the news. I believe that the transformation of this system will cause serious problems. First of all, it is now said that the more efficient municipalities will have to manage this, because they have a good tax power. They also say that they have been taken away from them or have been freed from them. Yeah, and the entire municipal operating fortune, which was a lot of cover for this debt. Very, very many municipalities, if they had asked in advance what they would have chosen to cancel their loans, but to keep the self-determination over their assets and assets, what they would have chosen, it would have been good to hold a survey at the time, but this did not happen, because the state feels that everything should be drawn to you, and on top of that, a person will always decide what is good for whom. I think it is a serious mistake to leave some of the municipalities without a source in the first place, but I think it is an even more serious mistake to be embedded in another slug by applying for this resource by municipalities with insufficient tax power. I see how they are trying to make it impossible for local governments where citizens have decided not to choose a Fidesz. This is the case in many, many places, and we already see the consequences of this, but we also see the compensation for it, and it is in the bill now that what was taken from Éva Tétényi as an independent city manager is now being put back with this law, because now there is a Fidesz city manager. So I do not think that it is personalised and that this is how legislation should be run. It's gonna cost a lot of money. That's what I think. Returning to aid: if you think that only people, actors who do not work in a village, are taking aid, for example, it is very wrong, because the system consists of a wide variety of types of relief, and there are many families with one earner and, say, a minimum wage, it is far enough for other benefits: housing, various utility allowances, etc., and even an income supplement, since the per capita income is low enough to have access to it. To wave this so that we can leave it to the mayor's pleasure, to whom he won't give it to, we can see where it has led in some places, for example in public works. We see how the mayor works public workers in many settlements in his own interests, and we also see that the lack of jobs has become the subject of some kind of blackmail in Hungary. Of course, the government couldn't solve it, or I don't know if it tried, I very much hope that it did - I can't even say that it was stuck in non-EU circles, for example, that the public works system itself could be trashed between agricultural seasonal work and municipal work, so that the municipalities could also deal with a form of temporary employment - I think that it would be one of the viable ways to steer public workers in a market-based employment direction, and that, in some places, these signals are also coming - public work is a serious competition, say, for agricultural seasonal work. This is a real problem, and I think we should try to change that together. The only reason I'm doing this is because I don't think the welfare system could be so much of a mayor-centric system. In the small settlements, we have come to the point that there are many places, especially where the head of the settlement has a tendency to become the master of life and death. It's not a normal world, it's not a normal world! Our neighborhood is a small village, not in the Great Plain, but in the West Transdanubia, but there are very, very many problems with employment, in which we are now going to have another tough intervention because we have seen - and I have said this here, several times to the Secretary of State - how they are trying to protect the agricultural employment sectors. I didn't. By taking the funds away from them and not even following their own government decision, this is clear from the Finance Act. So they are not on the right track, and I would like to emphasise this very much. With regard to aid, I would like to say that it is unfortunate that if you want to put one layer against the others again, this has already been played in the service pensions, played in the disability pensions. I think Hungary has learned not to buy this, because sooner or later everyone will come if the government looks at the area where resources could be obtained for the otherwise unnecessary investments. I'm having a hard time digesting the copper plate madness on the high road, which, say, is in the stadium there. You could feed a lot of kids with the money that only copper plates were put into that stadium. I believe you like it, and sometimes there's 800 spectators in the 4,000 stadium, but I'm sure it'd be a better place to do that, like, the children's meal, and now they've taken funds from. Yeah, we just heard yesterday that out of the 28 billion, 5 of them will be returned to the thing to have food for the weekend. Now I'm just wondering, after you're about to ban weekend work all over the place, let's say, outside of Russian canned oil, what those kids are gonna get. Because I would like to point out that it is also a job, and if the government on one side finds out that the children in need will have to be fed this weekend, it must be cooked by someone, unless they want to give them Friday food three times heated; so in Hungarian, they are not consistent, honourable fellow Members. Here I mentioned or tried to say to Mr Secretary of State Rétvári - who, by the way, did not take up the debate with me on Sunday's work either on News TV or on Kossuth Radio's Collider - obviously there is a reason for this because they do not have sane arguments - that when a Fidesz faction leader stands up and says they are trying not to have to work anywhere on the weekend, this should be explained to cows, pigs, so many people or many things, because I would be very curious about what would happen, say, with a stock I do not solve, they did not feed me. In pigs, this is particularly dangerous, I would like to point out; first, it breaks apart the oil and then eats his caretaker if he does not receive food. So it's a world like this, and it's not a game. There is no such thing as a commercial sector where the worker can be protected, and on the other hand they do not want to change the workbook, but they forbid something that is not good for anyone, of course, but the hundreds of thousands of people who are forced to work on weekends - because there is nothing else they can do to understand - and they do not want to provide it with any protection; that is why this whole talk is false. And the reason why I would like to tell our Christian brothers is that it is easier for those who find other programs to go to church because they may not be dressed just to go to church. [[Noise, interruptions.]] But if it's coupled with, say, a weekend shopping - [[Intercoms.]] I'm sorry, let me finish. - Then it is most likely that a medium that does not go there will move much more easily. I'm not talking about people who go there regularly, because, of course, that's not a question. I regularly delivered my grandmother, I went with her many times, and she went away, but it doesn't go away, but maybe from now on the person who can go to the store who doesn't, I'd like to stress that. [[Interjection: He'll go to the fair.]] So I don't have a problem with... Oh, yes, but there is no fair in every settlement, because if there is, there will be serious problems again, so I would be careful with them. Which, in this bill, is another foam on the cake, which, of course, my profession may only have to do with metaphorically, which is that in the future, the tax authority may also use an external private investigation organization. I don't know if Minister Pintér is preparing for government time, but I think it's probably just another field where you can put a lot of close friends in position. Of course, I think the first thing you need to do is deal with the unblessed situation of private investigators and the different security companies, how they can work with the hourly rate. I do not think that the Hungarian tax authority needs this so much. True, what we see is that some of the banned would like to investigate themselves, perhaps a private investigator would be better. If that's the intention, then we're in favour of it, but I don't think that's what's behind it. So in my opinion, this package is typically a picture of the kind of legislation that is currently taking place in Hungary. The other thing is very strange, that those who had previously carried out all kinds of tests on a branch of who had received what type of EU tender, I would like to tell them now that the ice cream has licked back. [[12.30]] Because now you've found those newly appointed leaders who have taken on very serious EU funds, which is no problem if the system is normative. I've said that many times. I've been called by State Secretarys in connection with your bankroll. I told you, if everyone deserves it, then of course, there's nothing wrong with it. There's only one thing wrong with this amendment of the law that's been taken out of the application. So not only was the one taken out of the system that is normative, let's say, the area payment, where, if someone matches a basic parameter, you can get the money afterwards, but also, say, a serious development opportunity. There may be a situation where a person signs his own application for the operation of the system, not only on the claim page, but also on the support page. I said extreme, but the bill makes sense. I don't think it's normal to just get relatives, friends, business partners out of the system. It used to work so that no one could apply for a company, where it was either a dominant or even a small part of their ownership. Maybe that was too hard, I'm not saying that. I'm not saying it, because there's a lot of cross-border overlaps, we can see it, but the fact that there's no limit is no conflict of interest rule for EU funds, it's pretty amazing. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It's not just for home, it's not for this legislative amendment. It is financed from budgetary resources, and the EU is also a budgetary resource, because it comes into the budget; although it is referred to, but no, it also applies to the EU. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think there's been enough arguments that I've said why we don't support this bill. One thing, yes, the arrangement of the gardens is positive, but I might tell you in two minutes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-02-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, the notary of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Indeed, the bill before us amends a number of laws, and here I would like to mention, in particular, two amendments that we welcome and that we would like to support. One is the immediate amendment of the Stability Act. By the way, this is an amendment that seems very small to the outside viewer. In particular, among the measures of entry into force, delete the original act 1. § This is an interpretation provision. In particular, the draft law deletes the concept of liquid credit. This is also interesting, and it was also surprising to me because I submitted the same draft law or this proposal to the House in October 2012 on the grounds that in practice the municipalities cannot repay their liquid credit by the end of the year. According to the Stability Act, the liquid loan concerned only intra-calendar credit. Since they could not repay it, it caused very significant problems in the life of a settlement, where appropriate. Of course, this amendment does not mean that the indebtedness of a settlement will increase as these loans will have to be repaid, but not within a calendar year, but within a year, so the year compared to the recruitment and the year compared to the contract with the bank will count. Obviously, they have to set their budgets in such a way that they can actually repay it, but we know that liquid credit is needed. Not only is it because the government keeps the support of municipalities on such weak feet and at such a low level, but there are indeed periods in the lives of some municipalities, such as summer months, when their incomes are much lower than their expenses. The other point, which we can also support, is also linked to the Stability Act. This is about the fact that the government's contribution will continue to be necessary for the debt-generating transactions of companies owned by a hundred percent of the municipality. This is indeed a welcome point, and we would have called for it earlier, even when it came to debt transfer and debt consolidation here in this House. In particular, it is about the fact that the Fidesz-led municipalities have outsourced certain debts to large municipal companies and holding companies so that they do not notice how much the local government is indebted to. This was a very dangerous process, as we understand it, which is what the draft law before us wants to prevent. What we can now support less, for example, the chapter on the Public Finance Act 17. §2 of the Act, which will add new provisions to the original Public Finance Act, i.e. a new 9/A. and 9/B. Article 2 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), This is about the fact that the management powers of certain budgetary bodies will be reorganised by the State in some way. I quote from the paragraph, i.e.: by law or by government decree, the authority of government bodies may be transferred from the original governing body to somewhere else. This is divided into two parts by the bill. According to one, these budgetary bodies may be managed by another managing body belonging to the same sub-scheme of general government, or they may be managed by a management body belonging to another sub-scheme of general government. What is it when it comes to the same subsystem? Let us give an example: for example, in the case of the mayor's office, the mayor's office, in particular, a budgetary body, where appropriate, may transfer its management powers to another mayor's office. In Hungarian, let's say, the municipal government of a district seat may manage the mayor's office of a small settlement belonging to the district. This is your proposal in Hungarian. When, not so long ago, I asked Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State, when they wished to introduce the provision that you would draw the line at 5,000 people when you could have a self-government office for a settlement, because we know that it is currently at 2 thousand, then the Secretary of State did not know what I was talking about. Although we know that this has already been notified to mayors through government offices, notaries have been told to prepare for this, because it will happen. In fact, news has it that they've been thinking about the 10,000-person border. I think what is written here is a serious step in giving you the opportunity to do so under some kind of legislation, as you have put it, by law or by government decree. So it may not even come before this House, so you will be able to take this rather steep step. The other is that if a management body in another sub-scheme of public finances were to be under the control of a budgetary body, then what are we talking about; what we may be, let us give an example of this. For example, the utility provider, when it comes to a type of budgetary body, is a public body that provides, say, a public utility service for a given settlement. We have also recently heard that the government is planning to set up a national public utility service provider, which we call only a national dog service provider. After all, we know that the bigger the holding company makes the Fidesz government, the bigger the chance it has. This is what we have seen in the lives of local governments of county municipalities and county towns, where they have typically made holding companies of this kind in many places with different public tasks. I don't know how this is going to work, what's going to be the business form of this national utility company, but you might want to do this as a budgetary body. We don't know that, because we've only heard from the press some ideas about this. But it is quite possible that on this basis you will also be centralised in such a way as to involve these very important public service bodies in public administration. [[12.40]] What, on the other hand, we are also not eligible for this salad law is the system of municipal aid. One of the speakers of Fidesz recently told us that he thought that this was a non-exciting bill before us, because it is about a lot of things, maybe not half of it, we don't know, and the other, which makes him think that it's less important, is that the general debate of the budget law has already been concluded, that it has already set out the direction that the government is imagining next year, that it is only establishing it, so it adapts life to it, that is why this whole package of laws is needed. Now, unfortunately, the situation is not quite so. Turning to the Budget Act, very briefly, because this is in conjunction with our present law: Annex 2 contains the framework for financial social assistance. This is determined by the government at approximately HUF 60 billion, and by other support for social tasks at HUF 48 billion. That has been the case so far, and that is what we have tabled our amendments to do. Until November 20, we knew that this was what the government really thought, but then, thank you very much for coming in to this very important debate, Mr Czibere stood up here in Parliament, about 8:00 p.m., and said that nothing would be as written and presented to us in the draft budget law, but in a completely different way. What we don't know is how it's going to be different, because this salad law gives us an account of certain things, but what the budgetary implications are going to be, we have no idea. Not so much that when we sat on the Committee on Budgets and had a detailed debate on the draft budget law, I asked the Secretary of State with the NGM there to inform me, so please, because if the idea of some of the laws establishing the budget is already around, then you obviously know the resources assigned to it. This happened last Thursday. The Secretary of State said that, unfortunately, he could not say that the government would decide on this later. Has this decision already been made? It would be very good if Mr. Secretary of State were to be here, to inform us of the situation. There are different figures in the press, and the Minister of State with the NGM said that they will measure to the power of tax whether or not a given municipality receives aid, this limit will be drawn at HUF 32 000 per person, and under which a municipality can receive such additional support, nothing above that, above that there is only its own revenue, but what is below it, he said HUF 30-32 billion. However, it is a fact that there was a $48 billion in the press, so we don't know where government math is right now. I ask you very nicely to enlighten us in this regard. The other amount is about 60 billion. Do we understand that this is completely gone? It is now also included in Annex 2 in the form of grants granted through municipalities, and the interpretation provisions on how a municipality can call and transmit this, but according to this all forms of support and those terms will also change. There will be no rss, instead there will be health-damaged support, and there will be a kind of support fee for childcare, and the rest, so also the concepts that are still being used by the draft budget law, will no longer exist. I ask you, when do you wish to submit the law that we could debate in substance, which contains these still open questions. Not to mention that what currently lies before us as a draft law, and let us admit that it does not have the government decree to break it down, so we do not really know who will actually be the holders of the individual forms of support. The subsidies that you think will go away will affect some 600 thousand people. For example, half a million people used housing support last year, kindergarten support, equity public health care, and perhaps more than a hundred thousand others. So the fate of 600,000 people is still in question as to the form in which they will receive these grants. And one more thing I would like to say very briefly. You are the 80th floor of the presentation. Article 45 of the Social Act is amended. §8 of the EC Treaty. So far, it's been a chapter in municipal aid. Now, this is going to be a municipal support chapter. Yeah, well, it was just a municipal aid category. On the other hand, you say that the body of representatives is obliged to provide this kind of support to people in an extraordinary life-threatening situation, as well as to people with periodic or persistent life-support problems. I think this word here will put the municipalities in a very difficult position, because if there were to be a government decree, the content of which we do not know, so we do not know exactly who this category of municipal aid is going to cover, who are going to fall out of your system, by the way - probably a lot of people - so we do not know who the municipality will be obliged to provide this kind of support to. Not to mention, what you're basing it on is a new category of hips, local business tax and municipal tax within tax power. This is unacceptable to us because there is no place to tax the Hungarian people any longer. Local business tax can only be collected, but this also has its place, as you know exactly how many different categories of support there is not enough state aid, how much there is to be replaced, not to mention that there is no municipal tax to be collected from, there is no longer taxing the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Only the most important answers in two minutes. The submission will take place today. The other is where government math is at. Government math is at HUF 34 billion. 34 billion will be at the disposal of municipalities in order to obtain the resources to finance municipal aid differentiated by tax capacity through certain territorial settlements. The number of municipalities that do not participate in this because their tax power is high - this is the HUF 32 thousand per person/year business tax revenue mentioned by a certain person - is 261, mostly a city. Business tax and municipal tax: I would also like to state here that the municipal tax is included in the local tax law as a new form of income, not because aid and social support are being transformed. The municipality that will say that I am imposing a new tax or raising taxes, because there has been a transformation, there is conscious distortion. Business tax revenue is over 400 billion, and this is the way to do it. I think that this can be done, because the business tax is intended for future development, local transport and social policy. I think that, in the coming months, the municipalities will have to make up the regulations that will tell exactly who, under what conditions, they will grant these subsidies to. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the two minutes do not apply to you, because the house rules state that, in all cases where the nationalist is the government, the representative of the government may speak without a time limit. Mr István Ikotity of the LMP Group will be followed by a regular speech. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The salad law on which the budget is based also amends the rules on education on several points. Unfortunately, the legislative environment is changing in a negative direction again, except for a few minor technical transfers. In my keynote speakers, it was said to eliminate the automatic increase in teachers' wages, and I would like to mention this in a little bit more detail. [[12.50]] The most important negative change in this salad law is to eliminate the automatic wage increase of teachers. The LMP would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government is once again breaking its promise to teachers, as teachers' salaries were adjusted to the minimum wage when the career model was introduced. The LMP welcomed this step at the time. This was one of the cornerstones of the career model and the associated wage increase. This is necessary in order to ensure that teachers receive at least one minimum wage increase each year as the minimum wage rises rise, not what happened during socialist governments: after the public employee wage increase in 2002, the amount of the previous increase has been completely devalued in a few years due to falling corrections. Next year's teacher's wage increase will therefore be due only to the government's failure to keep its previous promise, and the originally planned salary increase will only be given in four-year instalments. This is not little, but what if we finally manage to complete these original plans in 2017? Will the depreciation restart from there? Because there's no rise, so it's expected to freeze. When we brought all this up in Parliament yesterday, we only met the usual government arrogance and cynicism - now in the presentation of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. He said that many sectors would trade with teachers and that they should be happy to take home more than one third of all teachers. Moreover, the latter claim is not true. In addition, the whole story will be brought into perspective if we look at the depreciation of payments incurred between 2008 and 2012. Even if you look at the educational burden, the increase in the number of hours. In any case, eliminating the automatic wage increase is one of the main pillars of the teacher career model and its financial appreciation. We are completely incomprehensible to the government's intention of educators and keep them in constant uncertainty. After all, the most important purpose of the career model would be for educators not to be in the position they are currently in: they know one thing for sure, that nothing is certain about their salary. That would give them security. They do not get this, but instead they have to live in constant uncertainty, and obviously in the resulting stress, which clearly does not have a positive impact on their performance or their whole attitude to the way in which they carry out this extremely important task, which is of paramount importance to the nation, education. That is why we ask: why is it necessary to remove this tiny little security from the teacher's career model? Thank you for the floor.
u2014-12-02-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since an independent Member is not in the Chamber at this moment, it is possible to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-57	Mr President, Dear House, Just now, although due to new two-minute habits, this means about half an hour ago, there have been very serious suggestions about the situation in the Hungarian countryside. We must say that if we look at the situation of the Hungarian countryside and especially of Hungarian farmers, producers and suppliers and how they can be put in an easier position, then indeed we must explore the drivers behind the change of the so-called food chain inspection fee. I would also ask the pro-government representatives, Mr Secretary of State, to shed light on the expectations behind the increase in the so-called food chain inspection fee, and not on the account of the Nabih, but on the revenue side of the budget. There were clearly two kinds of market expectations. One says that next year HUF 22-24 billion, and the other says that the increased rates could result in a budget revenue of HUF 30-40 billion of the amount that, in the past, increased the cash register of the Nebih, which financed the market controls where the multi-networks that the government is now trying to squeeze out of the market could be investigated and burdened with consumer abuse. By the way, I claim that he is right to try to involve them in public burdens, since these chains avoid paying taxes. I'm saying that many of you are manipulating your scales, your revenue side and your results. Obviously, it does not pay as much tax as it should. But yet, because it can be explained that these consumer problems and their methods of handling, which are recognised in a completely normal way, are simply damaged because the Nebih no longer has the fees collected so far, but the budget simply spends it on what it wants, and then gives the Nebih some operational resources, but it goes into the dark of the future, how much. That is why we can demand an explanation and an explanation of this from a consumer point of view. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that these tests should not be damaged, because that is the only thing that can be done for every Hungarian customer, for every Hungarian citizen. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-58	We will continue with the two-minute speeches. István Ikotity is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say a few more words about the precarious situation of foundation schools. Almost 10 percent of the entire school network is provided by foundation and private schools. We're talking over 200,000 students and 10,000 teachers. This is a very important part of the Hungarian public education system. It is not true that foundation schools and private schools receive only the children of the elite, since these non-state institutions are typically able to deal effectively with the most disadvantaged students or pupils with special educational needs. These institutions are needed because there are some students who simply do not fit into the traditional system of public education. Some people are a little out of line, who need a different approach to education and education. These children do not perform well in traditional schools, they fall behind, they may have behavioral problems, they will fail. In a school with a different atmosphere, such as a foundation school, however, they soar and unfold and become useful members of society. The original budget proposal has caused a great deal of alarm between foundation schools. Unlike previous promises and practices, only 70 percent of teachers' wages would have been financed by the budget for foundation schools. This has changed. But what caused all this uncertainty? The Public Education Act currently states that all maintainers are paid by the budget for teachers' wages, but the new intention to amend would take out the guarantee for foundation schools. Funding for them is planned to be governed by the Finance Act. The government's backlog doesn't change the situation next year, but what happens next? Why do we have to cancel another guarantee? Why do we need to make sector-neutral funding uncertain again? Why do the maintainers want to re-treat the schools?
u2014-12-02-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Sándor Szabó is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the debate on the budget, we have said several times, but not only here in the House, but also outside the House, that we have seen the state cut spending most in terms of social spending since 2010. We find that the amount of aid in the area of social expenditure is falling. This is particularly true when we see that it is a part of the cash social benefits of municipalities. As a result, the amount spent on social security and social benefits compared to GDP has decreased from 17.4 percent to 15.5 percent, while, as several fellow Members have already said, we find, on the basis of domestic and international research, in the light of expert opinions, that it is a matter of fact that poverty indicators are constantly deteriorating, which are about Hungary; and the fact is that income scissors are constantly opening between the upper middle class and the lower middle class and the poor. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We already know the government's argument. My fellow Member from Harghita has also said that the social system is actually too generous. This is not really the way to work, and social benefits must be reduced and work provided. [[13.00]] There would be nothing wrong with that if there were jobs anyway. You call public employment a miracle weapon. In the debate on the budget, I also said that this cannot be the only solution. It can't be a solution, because it's not for everyone, and it's a short period of time, and besides that, it preserves the employment conditions that are in Hungary today. In this case, of course, they stand up, and they are pleased to say that we are against public employment, which is not true, because we have repeatedly said that, by the way, all respect belongs to the people who work in this system, because they are in a sufficiently vulnerable and humiliated position, but they have to make a living, even if they receive significantly less money from the minimum wage. This money, by the way, is very important to support their families. Unfortunately, if a person loses his job or is in an unexpected crisis that he is forced to receive such social support either from the state or from the municipality, he must turn here for temporary help or permanent help, because these people, ordinary families or families who earn below average do not have any savings. So it should be noted to my fellow Members that these people do not want to work, they would want to work, if they had a job and did not necessarily hold their hands for aid, but if they are in such a situation, then they really need these subsidies. It can therefore be said that the government is once again abandoning the poorest families in 2015. This can also be seen in the debate of the law on the basis of which the budget is based, now in its trial, where, by the way, we find that the government is making tough changes in the area of social assistance to the municipalities. While in education and health we see a strong centralizing intention from the government, so what we see is that everything is under control by the government, otherwise we see a kind of decentralisation in the area of social assistance, as regards municipal financial benefits, because here, on the basis of the need to give greater space to local governments, it gives them a certain degree of room for manoeuvre in the area of other non-mandatory cash social care tasks. And what we see is that the government is actually doing nothing but trying to transfer this task entirely to the municipalities. Next year, according to the Social Services Act, housing support will cease, debt management services, equity public health care, kindergarten support, equity care premiums, and the system of regular social assistance will be completely changed. By the way, I would like to note here that in my constituency, Szeged, only debt management services, housing support and current social assistance affect more than 3,300 households. The government claims that, in fact, the earlier reduction of the rent has already helped these families a lot, but let's face it, this is precisely the social class that has not benefited from the reduction of the rent. This is especially true if we look at the fact that these people live in relatively small houses, and in any case, if they can heat a room. Therefore, the fact that these people would have benefited from the reduction of the rent is not factually true. So, as I said, the system of regular social assistance is changing. This support could have previously been granted to unemployed people who were in a difficult financial situation who were injured by health, raised children under 14 years of age, so that they could not take up public work, reached retirement age within 5 years, or were in a social situation where they had to apply for this support for other equitable reasons. With the current amendment of the law, the latter two categories of entitlements are excluded from the scheme, i.e. those who reach the retirement age within 5 years and for other reasons of equity, so they are in such a social situation that they need such support, which means that between 60 and 65 percent of the users so far cannot receive this support, because, as I said, these two funds have been used. This is particularly true in the case of those facing a pension, whose number was nearly 20,000. The government therefore lists the support of the adult population as one of the obligations and privileges of the municipalities. It is quite persuasive to say that it offers to those who fall out of support the way to turn to the municipalities, as if a little letting go of the hands of the municipalities. This task must be solved by the municipalities in the future. That's right. By the way, the law provides that the local government aid scheme will, in fact, be rewritten and renamed as municipal aid, the method of access of which, by the end of February 2015, should be determined by each municipality itself. However, we must also say that the municipalities are not in too good a position. This is especially true when it comes to the fact that the entire municipal system is usually less than HUF 25 billion compared to last year, which, by the way, the municipalities are right to resent. So what can local governments do? They have two options: either to reduce their expenditure or to increase their revenue. Obviously, they can no longer reduce their spending, as the municipalities have already hit the wall or have to increase their revenues. Now, Minister of State, you can tell me for the manyth time that there is no link between the introduction of municipal tax and the introduction of municipal aid, but - I do not produce conspiracy theories - we simply see and find that, by otherwise being able to give the municipalities the opportunity to introduce a municipal tax, quite simply seeing the cuts in social aid, we must say that they did so in order to ensure these benefits by introducing this tax. On the other hand, we must say, Mr Secretary of State, as my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs Loránt said, and you must understand that, quite simply, people have put up with more than they already have to bear. The situation of the municipalities is therefore not easy, since they have much less money to farm next year and have an increasing role to play in the social support system which is not necessarily compulsory for them. And this is not only said by us, Mr State Secretary, by the National Association of Municipal Self-governments, that the state has simply not financed its mandatory tasks in the previous period; 90 percent of the settlements will have the same amount of money in 2015 as last year, just as they will be able to pay for their operation. The question therefore rightly arises as to how the funds provided for social benefits will be provided. We already know that money for social benefits will be available from business taxes to municipalities, based on the so-called tax power calculation. Larger municipalities are likely to be able to solve this task, but, as the Secretary of State said, there are also developmental tasks for the municipalities. If these funds are to be spent on social policy tasks, there will be significantly less development for these municipalities. In smaller settlements, we simply do not see how they can do this - I would like to emphasise once again - without any obligation to do so. So, if we start from the 2012 facts, it is clear that the government, by transforming the social system, took about HUF 37-38 billion from those in need. The only winner of the transformation will be the budget in this sense, because while HUF 132 billion was spent on social support in 2014, it is HUF 108 billion for the current budget. A significant part of this money, too, Mr Secretary of State, is well aware of the fact that it will take away the support for employment related to public work, this is a significant part of it, and only a small part of it will remain to support those in need who are in a socially difficult situation. The closing and changing subsidies, as my fellow Member said, affect more than 600 thousand people, 630,000 people, this represents 6.4 percent of society. In settlements under 10 thousand people, this ratio is significantly higher, 8.5 percent; in cities over 20 thousand and in the capital, it is a small percentage, 4.6 percent. So what we see is that, by the way, the transformation of the system is once again the most suffered by people living in smaller towns, the villages. Secretary of State, there are already over 4 million living in this country. I think you wouldn't want this number to rise to 5 million next year either. Obviously, the MSZP cannot support the conversion of the social security system in this way. Thank you for listening. [[13.10]]
u2014-12-02-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker is Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member Jobbik.
u2014-12-02-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would, of course, like to talk in most of my speech about the transformation of the social and child protection systems. As we have heard in the pro-government speeches, it would perhaps be believable, and it would be professionally justified to divide the benefits and take certain benefits down to the local level, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity. I am also on the principle - but not only in words and beautiful sentences, I would like to note this in parentheses - that at local level the local community is best able to assess the type of care that is needed, because in two different settlements within five kilometres of each other, there are different problems and different problems in different specific weights. I agree with this, just like other opposition speakers who have spoken before me, that is not what I really see in him, not this line of work, not the right direction, but rather the need for the government to make as much savings as possible in social and child protection benefits and expenditure in this case. I've used that term in the previous cycle, and many people have said it's an excessive and inappropriate metaphor, but I see more and more that the current government is continuing to do the same thing that the previous one started. I call this only social policy Taigetos: it is possible to reduce the number of people in need and the circle of beneficiaries by removing the larger layers of them, and by kicking them away from the cliff for good. I see this process, because it has been said in pro-government contributions and in State Secretary-General's reply that, of course, municipalities can receive support for the payment of municipal subsidies, but it is in this law that it cannot be more than the lowest retirement pension limit at all, which is currently - for many years, too, many times, from several opposition groups - 28 500 forints, so it does not really point to helping troubled settlements. And let us be honest, however, that where the settlement is unable to cover these costs from its own resources, either from existing taxes or, if it takes into account the capacity of the population, from new taxes, these are the municipalities in which they are otherwise entitled, the number of residents to be supported is clearly and proportionately higher. So from now on, it's an incomprehensible goal. One more thing: in fact, it is possible to agree with the principle that the law lists the cases in which it can determine and what the local government must define the need for it at the level of regulation. In fact, it describes the concept of crisis, but the crisis situation can also change, because the crisis situation in downtown Budapest is different than in the county, in a small settlement in Komárom-Esztergom county, even segmented, but that is not the case here either. This is probably what this is all about: I am not psychic, I am not a prophet, but on the basis of my experience, I can sometimes predict certain things, and this will mean that in settlements with a difficult population, we will find that the concept of this crisis is measured with a very high standard, so that as many people as possible will be pushed out of care; and in well-being, richer settlements, it is possible to lower this standard as so-called welfare measures. So the municipality believes, with a good farmer's view, that if even a small settlement, which is in a lucky position, has an industrial establishment, has higher tax revenues, provides welfare measures to those who might be among the wealthy families in other settlements. From this point forward, from a geographical and other perspective, even from an economic point of view, social services will be highly differentiated in the country, and this will create impossible situations. What are the consequences of this change? One of the consequences can be, and this is one of the saddest consequences, that people who actually need care, and who actually need their life support, their everyday life support depends on a service, they may fall from certain benefits, and so they are actually life-threatening, actually in a crisis situation. The other, which is also sad, but this will threaten the local government officials, that there will be a kind of riot in the settlements, and this, in particular, in small towns in Borsod County or even in small settlements in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will have very serious consequences, even to the point that local government representatives may be at risk of their own physical integrity. The third option is that citizens who have already been slaughtered by the State in the form of taxes will be forced to continue to be sabotaged by the municipality and by the municipal authorities. If we are to say that we are transferring certain costs, some expenses to the municipality, then I think that the fair procedure would be to reform the tax system, to bring back that old state, and the current state of confusion, and, in many cases, even from the point of view of people, to eliminate a conflicting situation that there is no separate health insurance contribution, no special pension contribution, but simply a social benefit contribution. Let us re-shape these burdens, and in this case, if the local government actually removes a certain burden on the State, the central budget, in the form of cash and natural benefits, then the current social contribution tax which is intended for these benefits, these services, in proportion to the number of inhabitants, is entitled to reimbursement, in my opinion, and also on the basis of the general principles of justice and social responsibility. I am very sad to see the vision of the future in this regard, and, I repeat, this will not strengthen the principle of subsidiarity, but will enlarge the social difference even more and open these scissors even more. This may also have a very serious consequence: we do not need to talk about a geographical location, because, as I said, two neighbouring settlements can be more difficult, even in a better position from the point of view of the budget, or their present capacities are such that they can already expect higher incomes, and the other is that the living standards of the population there may be so high that they can afford to cast new faces on the population, and the part of the population on which they impose them will pay for this without further delay, and even feel the fate of their more difficult fellow residents living in the settlement. There will be these settlements, and there will be settlements that I have already talked about, that because of their own financial opportunities, it will raise the standards so high that a lot of people fall out of services. There may be some kind of consequence - how should I put this nicely? - migration within the country of a municipal supply or social nature. It may arise in the mind of a person who, at his own fault or without his own fault, is in such a situation that because of these benefits he is unable to sustain himself, but in his own municipality because of the financial circumstances of the municipality, he may not be able to obtain this care, and he may also look around and choose settlements or cities that are more distant in the area or within the borders of the country, where he is likely to be able to use the tax revenue... and that if everything is available on the Internet today, he can handle it well and look at the scope of the benefits, and he can also see how that the municipality determines the need in his decree or legislation, so he can raisle and move away from social support to another city, settlement, taking into account municipal support. [[13.20]] I see such a serious consequence in this, but, once again, it is more serious that, in my opinion, many people whose livelihood depends on certain benefits will fall away from these benefits. Even with the consequences, I did not mention that, if the principle of justice that I have already mentioned and even as an idea, I say to the government that it would be worth thinking about, if that is not the case, and because of the financial circumstances of the population, or even the lack of feeling of social solidarity in the population, the municipality is forced to use new faces in order to maintain these benefits, then it has to face and rightly face up to the displeasure of its own population in many cases, the outrage of its own population. So I am reading these ominous consequences from this proposal. I can only hope that there will be no such consequences. Moving from social and child protection benefits to another topic, Esztergom's sections on this proposal have already been mentioned in the speech. I don't usually use that kind of expression in Parliament, but right now, I have to say, I need a face to do this. So that the policy of vengeance represented by the government is so clearly written in a bill, so this is the top of the bullshit, I think. We can clearly read that Esztergom was punished until Éva Tétényi, who beat Tamás Meggyes with two-thirds majority, was the mayor, we deprived him of everything, we took everything away from him, and when the city has a mayor of good colour for us, we give everything back as a great favor. I find this outrageous, and in the name of the Esztergoms, I refuse! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-02-64	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2014-12-02-65	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to respond to what has been said. First of all, social spending is falling. I'd like to back that up with numbers. If you look at the social service register, if you look at the children's food register, if you look at the social support register, the public employment register, there is growth everywhere. So you have to be able to prove it very clearly. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I'll read it!]] Where these reductions are, the cuts in social expenditure. OECD statistics should also be used with caution, since some of the statistics, such as education, are taken into account, but nothing else. So, what is and is not part of social spending, we are talking about the social support, services, child welfare and child protection system, nothing else. Poverty grows. KSH published last week. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh!]] Yeah? Because? It was recorded in the April 14th of KSH. In the April 14th! The recording in April 14 showed that the number of people exposed to poverty in Hungary decreased by a quarter of a million from 13 to 14 people. [[Anita Herring: That's not true! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Do you dare to say it in the country?]] It's a fact! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Eurostat uses the same data. It's important that we at least believe the numbers. The number of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 241 thousand in the last 12 months, by a quarter of a million. It's important to make that clear. The third statement was that the income scissors were female. It was included in the same statistics that, from 2013 to 2014, the income inequality ratio was still 28 per cent. There hasn't been any increase in income inequality in the last 12 to 18 months. It's a matter of numbers to believe. [[Attila Gelencsér takes the notary seat.]] The next question is to let the poor down. Taigetus has also come up. I'd like to reject them one at a time. It has escaped your attention that the reform of the system is done in such a way that it is not right, and therefore Congressman Sebestyén Vágó, if the maintenance of life is at risk, it is precisely the principle of restructuring the social support system that both types of income compensatory life support and income replacement support, i.e. employment replacement support and one, health and child care support, are raised by the government and it is an element of the municipalities. It's a very important thing. You may have missed that. This is analysed in two ways by the government from the municipalities and the body of representatives. On the one hand, it takes it to the walking level. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The district must know better than the municipality!]] On the other hand, it converts it 100 percent into State aid, central budget support. Thus, only spending compensatory subsidies will remain in the municipalities and will be converted into municipal aid. We were talking about the compensation system. I would like to reiterate, with the exception of any conspiracy theory, that the transformation of the social support system cannot be a reference for any municipality to impose any new costs or raise any old costs. It's very clear. There are ongoing discussions with local governments. Yesterday, at the Ministry of the Interior, there was an extremely extensive consultation with mayors. No comments or objections were raised in relation to the restructuring of the social assistance scheme of this type. Mr Sebestyén Csító mentioned the principle of subsidiarity. That's right, it was a very important goal in 93 when the social law was created, and it is a very important goal now. Indeed, the kind of targeting that the Member has mentioned can be created with this. Indeed, those who know the problems of the inhabitants of the local settlement should decide. We also fully agree on the essence of decentralisation. The essence of decentralisation is that the concept of crisis is quite different in Budapest than in a small farm. But then it is appropriate to broaden the scope you mentioned. We also fully agree that decentralisation can have harmful effects. So, quite simply, the literature calls it a leg-to-foot vote when they move from one settlement to another. Yes, but by bringing life support to the district level and only spending compensatory measures to the municipal level, this risk will be substantially reduced. In recent years, the government has continued to monitor the practice of aid to individual municipalities, regulations and enforcement. There was a retrospective indexation in the design of the aid, which kept an eye on who used the resources provided by the central budget for this purpose. Therefore, I do not see the consequences mentioned by the Member, or threaten to do so, telling me how this system is being transformed. Finally, even when we return to the reduction of the rent and poverty statistics, I think that the reason why it is important and legitimate is the expression and mention of the reduction of the rent in this context, because precisely this KSH publication, which was published last week, also shows that one of the most important elements or attributes or dimensions of the reduction in the risk of poverty, is precisely the development of the proportion of their homes that they can or cannot afford. This decreased by 18 percent in 12 months. So the proportion of those who say in Hungary that they are unable to heat their apartment properly decreased by 18 percent. This is one of the most important factors in reducing the risk of poverty. These are objective numbers, I ask you to consider them. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-02-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two two minutes, first Z. Carpathian Daniel, Jobbik.
u2014-12-02-67	Mr President, Dear House, If anyone... I'm sorry. [[He's putting his microphone on.]] ; Although that's how the beginning was heard, but still. Mr President, Dear House, So if you start from the words of the Secretary of State, you can feel in a strange reality show; in a country where everything is okay, if the processes are slowly but in the right direction, and it can be said that economic growth brings about changes and changes in the social system. [[13.30]] On the other hand, when considering changes in the social system, the biggest tax on the poor is called VAT. It has already been discussed in this debate, and it can be said that, while the European Union has a record 27 percent, i.e. very hard VAT rates, in most cases, the question arises as to how they intend to base any kind of social transformation fairly, since - I will give you one example - the uncertainty about VAT revenue is a burden on both the budget and the various aspects of the underlying package. It can be said that only next year 160 billion extra is planned for VAT revenue. We would be interested in the justification for what this means, yet what income expectations support this one line. But we have to say, in relation to this 27 percent, if, for at least the most difficult number of people, we start from a fair and full reduction of basic food VAT to, say, 5 per cent, we could calculate - and we would expect to calculate - how many years the revenue that we now seem to have lost is going back into the budget through higher consumption. On the other hand, I also have to say that by reducing the VAT on articles needed to raise children, we could make a long-term investment that would not only allow future contributors to be born and remain in Hungary, but could keep families together and increase the number of families. I feel that in a budgetary debate or in the case of a salad law establishing a budget, any decision should be made whether or not Hungary's population disaster can be mitigated, slowed down, reduced, and ultimately nullified and set on a growing path through these decisions or not. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-68	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr Nándor Gúr will have the floor.
u2014-12-02-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the subject of poverty, Mr. Secretary, say as you do, with your hands in your pockets, generously, yes! [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks. Intercoms in the same place, including, "You don't even have a tie." How about this?]] I think - in my own opinion - that you really don't know what's going on in this country, you really don't have a shot at what conditions people live in, not tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but millions. [[A statement from Fidesz: Come on!]] Millions of them. You know, where, as said in the previous comment, I do not repeat, people face 27 percent VAT, those who spend most of their income on basic food consumption, where and where, over the last few years, the outstandingness of these families has clearly increased, and where child poverty is like in Hungary today, so that we can only have Bulgaria with a hair behind us, so to speak about this issue, Mr cynicism, Secretary of State. It's cynicism and shameful! The other thing I have to say is that my fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, spoke about the reduction in the amount of support at the level of the local authorities, which can and can be caught up with social support. Yes, yes, this is happening while you are collecting the one-and-a-half-percent contribution from employers and employees, unchanged. Do you know how much this is? Just so you know, I'll tell you this: 190-200 billion forints. Cut! They're taking this. And what do they use to improve and shape the fate of people who lose their jobs? I'll tell you one-quarter of that. One-quarter of that. Around HUF 50 billion, there's the money that's being spent on this, and the other 150 is being swallowed by their system. Well, it's the hand out of the pocket, a little more modesty and more action for the good of the people! Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-70	Thank you. Two minutes to Congressman Simon Miklós Fidesz!
u2014-12-02-71	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is right about the fact that, after 2010, when we started the large-scale public employment in the country, we were doing firefighting, but in his speech before the agenda, Mr Sándor Czomba referred to the fact that we had reached a level in the middle of 2013 when we tried to transfer public employment to market employment. I would like to give you an example of this, my honourable fellow Member, from the small region of Birbátor. In 2012 the number of public workers reached 4.5 to 5 000 in the Start Public Works Programme. Recently, this number has started to decline. This is due to the fact that, in this and next year, there will be 800 new labour needs in our region, a demand for labour on the market, and I do welcome the proposal for an amendment to the law that we are trying to facilitate public employment in the market. These 800 new jobs create problems. Our public workers should be able to work on the market. I am very pleased that this initiative is contained in the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-02-72	Thank you, Congressman. We now have a preliminary speaker, Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2014-12-02-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the laws on which the budget is based, and obviously by this time each year, the tax laws and the budget are already before the House, it is already being negotiated, and in the case of tax laws, it has already been voted. What is the opinion of the opposition parties on these laws, you may know this, and you may even know what society thinks, what the street thinks of these laws. Large demonstrations, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people protested against your politics. My problem with this, our problem is that on 12 October this year was the third election, the municipal election in this country, and until then the policy that you have been trying to enforce, among other things, through these laws for the last month and a half, has not been visible. You were talking about a Hungary that unfortunately lived in your dreams, so you deceived people. In part, due to the great public uproar, they withdrew from, among other things, the Internet tax and other ideas, but these laws together will bring the year of poverty to Hungary in 2015. The number of people already living well above 4 million below the living minimum could reach up to 5 million. This isn't right! It's not right, it needs to be changed. Listen to the people's voice, if they are not open to opposition parties, at least listen to them. However, in this debate, I must definitely comment on the specific legislation, and I must give some opinions on this. I must be honest with you that I would like to say two positive things and two more comprehensive issues on which I have a particularly negative opinion. I would like to make a positive statement on two of the cases that this legislation contains, this salad law contains, which has caused problems over the past period, and we have repeatedly drawn attention to it. In one case, there is a comprehensive solution and in the other there is a time gap on the part of the government. One is the case of gardens and the other is the social funeral, which caused great anger when it was planned to be introduced. The issue of small gardens is only seemingly small, because since the new land law, land use is virtually impossible only for farmers and producer organisations. This seems like a small matter at first sight. We may think that this affects a small number of people, but mainly at the borders of larger cities, where people farm in closed garden properties who are not farmers, not farmers, let's say they live in a panel house or live in a residential environment, just on weekends they want to farm on a hobby, just to create the needs of their own families, so they couldn't be land users according to the new land law. We have said this, we have said it many times, many of us have said it, including György Ipkovich, the former mayor of Szombathely, who has drawn attention to this huge social problem in this regard, and has done nothing about it. [[13.40]] Even in September, they said that they would introduce a comprehensive amendment to earth law if it was timely. Then we presented the proposal - or was tabled by my fellow Members from our group - which was to make a hectare of the border under which individuals could otherwise use, to use such land, a closed garden, a small garden, to enable their family to produce the vegetable-fruit needs they need. Then they didn't accept it. They didn't take it, they voted it off. By October 31, many of these contracts have expired, there are hundreds of people in uncertainty, thousands of people in the country anyway, tens of thousands of people, many people use this number. What I can tell you is that as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I have encountered many of these problems, and here the property manager of Miskolc has not extended these people's contracts. And what we see today, when we look at the bill, is that although this new option is basically called a recreational land use contract by amending the land law, they have finally found the same solution that opposition politicians have been saying for months, the Hungarian Socialist Party has been saying that this could be a solution. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] This proposal is important and should be supported, but it is not entirely accurate, I would like to say this. In this connection, together with several fellow Members, including my fellow Members, Bárándy and Gőgös, we have tabled an amendment which inserts a sentence into this legislation, according to which the former landlord is entitled to a right of pre-use for recreational land. So I would like to say in this particular case, not extending this part of my speech to a long time, that the contract has expired for people, many of them, thousands of people in the country. In order to be able to use this method, they must be able to use such recreational land use, in order to ensure in this legislation that the land they use is rented, even for decades, to be available to them. So I'm asking you to move past party politics now. While you have finally acknowledged that this is a problem, and although you have not introduced a comprehensive earth law amendment, you see it as a problem that can be solved in such a way, your solution is not entirely accurate. Please do not consider this a party policy proposal, it is for the benefit of stakeholders, and also give the opportunity to those who can no longer use such an area by 31 October so that they can continue to use the same area. This is one of the cases. It's a very important case. The other one, which I would like to say positively, is another one-year time spent on social funerals, or I do not know how to say this. When the social funeral was brought in, there were two huge criticisms about it. One is that it's inhuman. I think there is no need to justify this kind of personal involvement in burying a relative; this kind of pressure is inhuman to me. That's what we told you. Many have argued - perhaps some in the room too - that this is good and how positive it is. They did not wish to face this issue, they brought this provision in. The other argument was - and obviously from the funeral service providers - that this is a completely inexplicable and professionally incomprehensible proposal, which also raises public health problems, many things. I do not know what causes you to gradually withdraw from this proposal and postpone its introduction for another year. I would suggest that, as in the other case, we raised a problem, and then, after all, it seems that it is possible to remedy it after all, let's face it, it is an inhuman, inexplicable legislation. I don't think it's necessary to constantly push this into force for years, it simply needs to be erased, it doesn't have to be done. I can tell you that, of course, in a year's time, this will never happen in Hungary, or if so, it is an incredibly inhuman world. So it would be easier to say that you made a mistake in this case and you're backing out of this thing. At the same time, this one-year, in fact, push-over to the entry into force, I can say that this part can be supported. I would like to talk about two more issues that could be discussed a lot, and I would like to make a brief effort: one is the matter of private pension funds and the other is the transformation of the social system. First of all, we have talked a lot about the issue of private pensions. Four years ago, at the beginning of their term, you launched a campaign against private pension funds, against a mandatory private pension fund. In fact, one pillar has been removed from the pension system for a large part of society. Many criticisms were expressed that they had no returns, that they were not sustainable, that they caused a large budget deficit, and that some of the criticisms were based. At the same time, I expected in the last few years that if this nationalization had taken place at 97 percent of the people, what would be the fate of this amount. You've nationalized 3,000 billion dollars. Can you guarantee, for example, a significant part of my generation, at least a pension payment? I had to be completely disappointed, the worst expectation came in this story, and in this proposal this fund, which managed these pension savings, ends its activities on January 31, is the fund that managed this HUF 3000 billion. This money's gone. This is roughly 10 percent of today's GDP. In fact, it could also be said, although it is obviously difficult for society to convey this message, but I do not give up hope that, compared to the sovereign debt situation at the time, there was still a 10-percent reserve for future pensions. There was a debate about this at the time, four years ago, whether it should be recorded as a sovereign debt or not. This debate has not really peaked, since you are then nationalized. In any case, 10 percent of the government debt at that time could be deducted today. You have increased Hungary's public debt by 10 percent, since you have spent money on future pensions. And what is your conclusion? Their conclusion is that if this 3000 billion was needed for their unsustainable policy, then we still need the remaining 200, which is in today's 61,000 members who have decided, even though they were under threat of staying. So they want to destroy the rest of the system, and I have no illusion about the bill, what would be the fate of this amount or what would be the fate of it, and they are obviously spending it to replace the holes in the budget. This proposal cannot be supported, withdraw this proposal! At least for those who remain under the influence of threats, it is possible to remain in the private pension fund system. Finally, the transformation of the social system. They are very proud of the transformation of aid and virtually completely eliminate many of its elements: regular social assistance, housing support, debt management service, equity public health care, equity care fee, municipal aid, and then the compulsory kindergarten on 1 September will also eliminate the kindergarten support. Mr Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, has said a lot of things about why your proposal is good. He's trying to bring a kind of professionalism into this, I get it, but the situation is simple. A low subsidy limit, said this HUF 28 500, is added to the municipal aid in the form of municipal aid or exceptional municipal aid - now, in a simplified way, it will obviously have a different name - which the municipalities can give. Obviously, this kind of reduction of aid will appear at the sharpest point where this level is not enough. There the settlements have to solve this problem. This will cause problems for families in the most severe social situation, such as families, and in the number of such families, many of them are obviously in difficulty, and it is difficult for the local government in difficulty to obtain additional income or to reduce expenditure. What are your options? What is more, however, what you provide to local governments in the tax laws that are linked to it is that you can tax everything you have not yet taxed or taxed. [[13.50]] The municipalities can decide whether, by the way, they will levy taxes on the amount above your limited level of support, whether on the ground or on any property in the territory of that municipality, and whether they will resolve local social conflicts or not, and then they will not resolve these social conflicts. So I understand, and there are a lot of professional things to say, you've done that you've kicked the ball over the most difficult lines of people in the local government's space: either you solve it or otherwise suffer the social conflicts caused by the transformation of the relief system. This is obviously inhumane in this form, and that is why we are saying that this tax system, which you have further amended, these tax increases, these new taxes, the restructuring of the aid system and the budget in this form are unsupportable, so obviously the underlying laws are also unsupportable. [[The President shall ring the bell to indicate the end of the speaking time.]] since all these laws will be associated with poverty in Hungary in 2015. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-02-74	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2014-12-02-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw attention to some important points in the proposal, all the more so, because we have a very large number of draft amendments to 112 laws ahead of us, and certainly one point is important for someone and the other, but I think that the transparency of public funds from the perspective of the country's operation is a subject that we cannot go away with, and especially if they submit drafts with which they would put conflict of interest rules, transparency rules in virtually parentheses, and all this without actually being mentioned in the justification of the bill. At the points that I am going to say now, it is said that there are technical amendments, as if this were not important, it would not make a significant change in the legal system. A. 295. In Section 2 of this section - of course we are also proposing an amendment to this, and we are going to propose that this be left behind - you are breaking the system, the existing regulation where it has been rightly stated that organisations that cannot apply for public funds or otherwise receive public funding from public funds which, within the five years prior to the date of the opening of the tender, have entered into a cooperation agreement with a party or have entered into a cooperation agreement with a party, a party in Hungary, and have set up a joint candidate for parliamentary elections, elections to the European Parliament or municipal elections. We could say that this is a good regulation, and the public would also like us to keep the parties and the civil sector as far apart from each other as possible, and that there should be no practice that in the spring a civil society organisation openly, so openly supports a party, that it can conclude a cooperation agreement with it, so not only does it say that its members or their sympathizers should vote for one of the parties, as it has not been forbidden before, so an association could express its political opinion, but it could not even conclude or conclude a formal written cooperation agreement, it could not have obtained public money, it could not submit such a tender for five years. Now this will change, not in the right direction, and these provisions will be removed from the law, so in the future there will be no guarantee that anyone who, say, started as a candidate with a party, or who was a candidate with a civil society organisation, started with a party, or has concluded a cooperation agreement, and that organisation can then receive public support and public funds. This is outrageous in itself. What is even more outrageous and so far away, in my opinion, is completely unconstitutional, is 54. Section 62, which also seems to be a minor amendment in the proposal, but it does not mention anything other than making the money provided in the whole public finances system completely opaque and excluding it from conflict of interest rules. What's this about? There's a 2007 CLXXXI. Our law, on which it is easy to see that this was born under the previous left-wing governments. They were not known for the transparent spending of public money and for their love to account for every forint. Another issue is that, let us say, accountability should have been much more serious for these two cycles, which is also your concern, but the point is that this law was born, because it had to be pointed out outwards or at least to the voters and the European Union that the funds were transparent here in Hungary, and that there was a law on the transparency of public funds, which had no other purpose - I could add, quite rightly - than that the award and use of subsidies from domestic and EU sources should take place in a transparent system, and those who receive it should operate transparently, properly, accountable to the public, for anyone, these data and their operation. Moreover, the scope of the law covers not only public sector sub-schemes, but also EU funds and other programmes financed under the international agreement. Once again, it can be said that it is very right, because the EU funds are also Hungarian money somewhere, because we make serious payments, by the way, nearly HUF 300 billion a year, and if we compare everything, although it is not the subject of this speech that we have suffered in addition to the benefits of our accession to the European Union, but the point is that we should not look at EU funds as free money, so it is very right that they are also placed on the subject of transparency and transparency laws. In addition, this law applies to applications and funds granted by way of tender and beyond, and also applies to grants granted in kind or in money, and covers them. So in a very broad context, and I have to say, it was a law that could be applied in all forms of aid. The extent to which this was, of course, observed, and how well the law was capable of preventing, say, the crimes of socialist governments or public financial abuses, is clearly not, but at least formal rules existed, or at least could be followed up, and these spendings were public. Now in this proposal, which has been presented to us, you propose that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. In effect, the law would be amended in such a way that the whole law, the general government law as a whole, would be excluded from the scope of the law on subsidies from budgetary sources, so that an absolute wood law on iron rings would be created that the Public Finance Act, which concerns the spending of public funds, would not otherwise be applicable in the case of budgetary resources, the Law on the transparency and transparency of budgetary funds. It's such impertinence that I don't even understand what you're thinking. Besides, I don't know if some wise guy in one of the ministries came up with this, and no one noticed it, it could be, but if you think about it, it's a legislative justizmor - I don't like it, I just use it for the right reason, but it's justizmor - it's quite simply unacceptable. If that were not enough, if the law on public spending and the law on transparency were to be taken out, so that would not apply to the Public Finance Act, this would not be enough, then we can add that this also means that conflicts of interest rules will not apply in the future. What's this about? In the future, as has actually been said by several of my fellow Members, it is no exaggeration to say that in the future it will be lawful for a state leader to award support to his family member or even his own company, public aid. [[14.00]] Somehow it seems that if there are too many violations, then let us make the misuse of public funds completely legal, and then there is no lawlessness. Right? For in the future, these acts can be conducted legally. Then stand before the public and say that the policy of Fidesz from now on is to give the public money to family members or private companies without a neck, that is not incompatible. You think it's legal, you can do it, you have two-thirds. Stand up, hold a press conference, Lajos Kósa or Viktor Orbán can stand up and tell us. And then, obviously, the public can deduct the appropriate conclusions. But this is not even the case, because if we combine the two laws that I have said, it is that not only the rules on conflicts of interest are set in parentheses, but also the rules on public disclosure are excluded from the Public Finance Act. In English, these spendings, these grants to their own companies or relatives will not be transparent, they will not be public, they will not be accountable. And that's a level of justismord and impertinence that you can't pass. And I have to tell you, it's also against the law. I hope, János Áder, if you will feel this, that despite being appointed as a Fidesz representative, Fidesz party member in the presidential position of the Republic, but perhaps he will not go either. We very much welcomed the fact that, at the time, important guarantees were introduced into the Fundamental Law, on the one hand, that municipal property, state property, and that this also applies to municipal companies and the property and property of state firms, on the other hand, to public property and to national property; these are very important guarantee elements. Article 39 of the Fundamental Law also provides that payments may be made from the central budget only to an entity whose ownership structure, structure and activity for the use of the aid are transparent. These are fully explicit demands by the Fundamental Law on transparency and ownership. However, in the same article, paragraph (2), the Fundamental Law states that the public body is obliged to make public its public management of public funds. So with the management of all organisations and all public funds. Not only with regard to EU funds or not only with regard to other subsidies. The public funds and national assets must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. We completely agree with him, and that's what we're asking you to do. Data on public funds and national assets are data of general interest. Now, if, at the beginning of my speech, we place the amendment that you want to adopt next to Article 39 of the Fundamental Law, then it is quite clear that the proposal is against the basic law. And it is also quite clear that in democratic countries they are not working to cover the spending of public funds as much as possible, to relax or legitimise conflict of interest rules to the extent that they are either providing support to their own buddy companies or to their own companies, and, at the same time, to exclude the public. This is not good for you or for the public - the NAV scandals, the US ban, and the corruption cases that are certainly hanging around you, not just the MSZP. Because you can talk about what the MSZP governments did. Yeah. The MSZP governments have also abused public funds. But, you know, both statements can be true. So even though you are right that the MSZP has abused the supervision and spending of public funds, that is true, but the other statement may be true that you are doing the same. And people would see it perfectly, and they would expect at least pretend measures to prevent this situation. And that's not what they're doing! That's not what they're doing. Yeah, I told you about the pretense measure because they'd at least take pretend measures. What they are doing now is that I want to hide the spending of public funds completely, and bring it to the House with an anti-law proposal in such a way that they have not talked about it in either the intro or in the keynote circles. And, you know, the problem is that two thirds can be relied on, you can say that people have voted for you three times. Yeah. But one day, the time will come, and I'm afraid it has already come when your popularity will begin to decline. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Are you afraid of him?]] - Yeah, I'm afraid it might be in quotes - they'll start to decline in popularity and then they won't be able to stop this process. And they won't understand why we can't turn people around. And I'm not worried about you. I'm not worried about you, I'm worried about the country, because this process, as long as people get to the point of turning away from Fidesz with their mass, it also means they're turning away from public life, they're turning away from politics, and public confidence, the transparency of public finances, will also suffer. That should be avoided. And yes, I may also be concerned for your sake when I tell you to turn your back on this path, because it is in no one's interest that such proposals be adopted. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-76	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Staudt. The next announced speaker - within a 15-minute time frame - Mr András Schiffer, Mr LMP.
u2014-12-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In fact, the political importance of this underlying salad can be summarised in the fact that the rhinoceros government seems to have been formed, because it would require a pretty serious complexion to present these proposals. Dear Parliament, This is what my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, said here earlier, that Parliament had adopted the 2007 CLXXXI. Law, the so-called Transparency Act - yes, this was done by the parliamentary majority at the time of false left-wing governments, and you propose, with a pen stroke, that subsidies from public finances be excluded from transparency, budget subsidies from public finances' sub-schemes. I think it's worth stopping for a second. This law, this transparency law, was adopted by the ballib majority in 2007. Of course, they did not accept this because they were so great friends of transparency and purity of public life. We remember exactly what kind of nocical boxes and whiskey cans came and went. We remember it wasn't that long ago when money was found in Vienna's bank account. The only difference is that at least they wanted to live up to certain expectations, perceived or real expectations, and they made laws that you then, in an impertinent manner, asked to be counted on. You have asked for these rules in the Socialists to know precisely that as soon as they came to power, these laws, as they are, will be dug out. The difference between you and the Socialists is that, for one reason or another, you have created laws that are theoretically capable of protecting public money, for example. [[Zoltán Grimlock keeps interrupting.]] Yeah, they didn't follow these laws. You're no different. You're no better than the fake left. Just one thing... If my proud fellow Member has an argument, press a button. And by the way, I can tell you how many lawsuits there were between 2002 and 2010 when you did it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Your minister, János Kóka, has done the process of adopting a law on transparency and then has not implemented it, even after a final judgment, has not implemented the issue of public or public property contracts! It would be better to make peace with that, my condescending fellow Member.
u2014-12-02-78	Excuse me. Excuse me. Congressman Grumpy, don't put me in such an awkward position by yelling at me all the time.
u2014-12-02-79	But the thing is, most of the Fidesz people are just gonna take it, and the laws that the ballib majority created are gonna throw in the trash. Indeed, you cannot be accused of lawlessness, since you simply form the legislative environment in such a way that what has been prohibited is now free. This amendment of the law means nothing but that you legalize theft. That's what I'm talking about. Are you breaking laws? Fidesz does not violate the law, for the laws are made up in such a way that the public money can be wrestled freely! [[14.10]] So let's just agree on one thing: you must stop pointing backwards, pointing back at the sins of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period. With this amendment, you have lost all moral ground to point back at the pre-2010 period. And not only because the accountability didn't happen in a strange way after 2010, but because you are raising the law to what the socialists have never dared to do. They have no moral basis to point backwards in the future! This can be done here in this Parliament by up to two factions, but this is not Fidesz and not KDNP. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, they will and budget subsidies will be removed from the scope of the 2007 Transparency Act by a pen stroke, but they will go on - I would add what Gábor Staudt said earlier - because, quite simply, the Public Finance Act has been governed by Article 54/C. §2 of the Act, which states that, in the public interest, it is public information, which does not constitute public interest data and special data, which are not treated by the body in the context of the tender, the tendering procedure, the grant decision, and the decision to grant aid. You will, and you will destroy it with a feather stroke. In the future, this will not be public information in the public interest or public interest, so it is not possible to access and sue who has prepared, where appropriate, a tender. For everyone to understand clearly: in the past, including the period of socialist governance, it was at least possible to go to court and sue if you wanted to know who had prepared and how, who had been sued for taking part in these decisions. There should be no misunderstanding, it is precisely because you sent a police officer to the Ökotárs Alapítvány: because you wanted to know who the decision-makers are when granting Norwegian grants, for example. So they're so insufferable that what they're asking in one case on others, on private organizations, is being raised here to the law, so that no one in the future can have access to how you're playing with public money. How do they play? It has already been said: they will also allow public funds to be provided to organisations that have signed a cooperation agreement with a party, supported a party's election campaign, and will allow those who have decided on the aid, state leaders, your relatives, your pereputty, to withdraw as much money from the joint as they are not ashamed of. Are they really not ashamed? You guys want to hear about that? That's the last thing I'm gonna do. You opened up in April after the parliamentary election by starting to lie about how Norwegian money, for example, has to do with LMP, simply because there was a person on the party's list five years ago. What are you guys doing compared to that? They legalise that, for example, COF receives as much money from the budget as it is not ashamed of. It is legalized that any so-called NGO that is out of Fidesz licks up as much money as it is not ashamed of. Mr. Secretary of State Tállai, what you're doing is legalizing in this law that if your pereputty, your family members, let's say, submit an application, you're free to judge it and spend as much money as you can. That's what this bill is about. [[Constant interruptions.]] Mr Fisherman's Secretary of State doubts that this is true. I would very much ask you to read the proposal. It is a matter, my fellow Member, that this amendment - I think that if it comes into a parliamentary debate, perhaps read it - is about you wanting to abolish the restrictions on support for civil society organisations close to the party, and it is about not having any conflict of interest in the future that has prevented decision-makers, members of the government, from having access to public funds without inhibition of the relatives of the various Members. Mr. Fisherman, you're interrupting me so I don't get upset. You know, it's very interesting that when you're looking into the finances of rival or rival organizations, you're asking why we don't demand that, say, the Eco-partner Foundation disclose who makes the decisions. Mr Tallai State Secretary, the fact is that we have recognised here in Parliament that, yes, it is also a matter of public interest. But after that, they have the nerve to introduce a bill that shuts off Hungarian people from learning in the future how they have applied for various budget subsidies, how they have made decisions, and they allow their family members to make up their money. The point, Mr Secretary of State, is that, for example, in this proposal, in this presentation, you are also proposing that the Treasury, on the basis of its supporter's information, deletes the data of the tender that has not been obtained from the monitoring system. So it's about extending the criminal practice in the trade fairs to the general government as a whole. It's the sainting of the tramp dog! 'Cause what happened there? Even though various organizations asked for competitive offers, it turns out the losing offers are no longer there, you sent them back, destroyed them, the devil knows what they've done to them. Last week, the LMP proposed that, in the case of every public, municipal tender, whether it is money, property or concession law, as in the case of the tramps - I am talking about tobacco concessions - EU subsidies or other foreign subsidies - yes, we include Norwegian and Swiss subsidies - and after the deadlines, all competing offers should be made public, accessible to all Hungarians, easily searchable and comparable. Compared to this, what does the government propose? So that losing offers can be immediately destroyed so that no one can ever find any trace of the various public money thefts. That's what we should be talking about, Mr. Secretary. Give me a number on this. How can you account for your conscience? This bill is a disgrace, a disgrace, it's about you trying to cover your tracks. They have the nerve to do the circus in connection with a private foundation because the subsidies granted to Hungary under an international agreement are not distributed transparently, and then, after the police have withdrawn, they have launched criminal proceedings, they have introduced a law and legalize the practice that has not been legal in Hungary. Wake up! This is about you cynically and easily pointing out corruption at others screaming and pointing back at the previous governments, because you can do it by two thirds to legalize what wasn't legal before. You know, Mr. Secretary, the difference between you and the fake left is that at least they were supposed to be accountable. In 2010, there was a legitimate opportunity for you to account for your predecessors. Today, there is still a legitimate opportunity for you to appeal to private organizations. If this bill is passed, they'll give themselves a passport so that no one can ever ask you again, in any way, if you spend money on your own, your pretentious, who knows who, their sister organizations. That is what this proposal is about. Or if we're reading this motion wrong, please, Secretary of State, correct me. If it really is a technical proposal, then I would very much ask you to accept our amendment in which we are trying to correct this underlying salad with the proposals made by Transparency International, K-Monitor and atlatszo.hu. You will accept our amendments, and I promise you, Secretary of State, here I will follow you and the entire Fidesz-KDNP, if you accept our amendment, because then it is really just that, Mr Secretary of State... [[András Tállai: I will.]] I will. Now, András Tállai has promised, everyone has heard that they will accept the proposals of the LMP. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, because in this case it means that there really were only technical misunderstandings. Secretary of State, this proposal has not yet been withdrawn. At present, there is a proposal on Parliament's table that you do not wish the identity of, for example, a person preparing an invitation to tender to be made public in the public interest in the future. At present, there is a proposal on Parliament's table to ensure that subsidies paid from public finances' subsystems are not covered by the Transparency Act. At present, there is a proposal on Parliament's table that legalizes the possibility of, say, pushing public funds to Fidesz sister organisations. At present, there is a proposal on Parliament's table that eliminates conflict of interest rules that have limited decision-makers, state-secretaries, ministers themselves or their pereputies to public funds in the past four years and previous years. That is the proposal we have here at the moment. Please, if you agree with me, press the button here and say, loudly, not just shouting out that you support the LMP proposal, you will accept it, and these yelling rubbish will simply be nullified. [[14.20]] It is a matter of fact, Mr State Secretary, which my fellow Member has just said, that, after the Fundamental Law, in terms of transparency, was indeed, how should I say, a progressive step forward in 2011 in relation to the rules on transparency of national assets, but this also results in this proposal, Mr State Secretary, going against the Fundamental Law hard. I propose that if this proposal passes through the Fidesz-KDNP voting machine and the head of state signs this proposal, then the opposition groups should jointly ask the Constitutional Court to abolish this completely unspeakable proposal. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's right.]] There is no way that this proposal will pass the constitutional test, however it has put together, because it runs counter to the provision of information in the previous constitution, but the otherwise very good transparency rule that you have formulated in the Fundamental Law openly makes this proposal unconstitutional. There is no way that this is accepted by the Constitutional Court. And one more bonus to the end: by withdrawing budget support from the public; by destroying conflict of interest rules, you will, of course, allow offshore suspicious companies, offshore suspicious organisations to access public funds. This is also against the law, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that last week we did not just propose that any tender be made public in all state and municipal tenders, including EU and Norwegian tenders, after the deadline. We have also proposed to sweep the offshore knights out of the country, sweep them out of the public domain. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You are proposing the opposite, Mr Secretary of State. Shame, shame! If you think there's been a technical problem with this package of proposals, please [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] ask for a floor and announce the withdrawal of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2014-12-02-80	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2014-12-02-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Members, Mr. Secretary. After two months, to refer to the data of the KSH, I think I don't know how to rate it. Moreover, if you read the response of the profession, they said that this report is a report on poverty, both professionally and methodologically, it is objectionable. For the record, you've missed more than two months with this report. You know, Mr. Secretary, when you come up with this about how much the reduction of the rent has supported the Hungarian people and referred to the KSH again, you should also look at the data that the service providers themselves publish, the service companies themselves. What the service providers published doesn't project what the KSH shows us. And I'll tell you something: sometimes it's good for people to go to the country and ask them. You're telling me how much this reduction has helped families. You know, next year, 500,000 families will be cut off from housing support. Five hundred thousand families! They're gonna take more a month than they're supposed to get, you know, undersecretary. ? From 2500 forints to 10,000 forints they could receive about or a little more housing support than 10 thousand forints. Ask people who have been heated with wood or coal, or who can not heat at all, or whose electricity is already turned off what this means to them. And Mr. Secretary, you know what? Come to the county of Hajdú-Bihar in February, when we are in the middle of winter, and the aid is withdrawn from these people, and then tell these people there, in our market, in a non-fidesz residential forum that poverty has decreased in Hungary. Then come over there and tell them right in the middle of the market. [[Károly Czibere: I'm leaving.]] Believe me, I'm gonna be there for you, and I'm gonna protect you, okay? ! Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-82	Thank you. For two minutes, Congressman Sebestyén Szépító will take the floor.
u2014-12-02-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm the type of person who's very skeptical about statistics, statistics. I don't really believe what I see in that. But if two different statistical results are in stark contrast, then one examines which one to believe. Mr Secretary of State mentioned the HCSO survey that the number of people at risk of poverty decreased by a quarter of a million. On the other hand, Eurostat shows that the number of these people is increasing in Hungary, currently 30% of the population, more than 3 million people. I would say, yes, that, walking around the country, including the social services institutions, I tend to think that, unfortunately - and obviously I have to say this sadly - Eurostat is right on this issue. So I, too, would be careful with these statements. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-84	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2014-12-02-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I understand they're nervous. Facts are stubborn things. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. Foreman Novak interrupts: It's easy to be calm with his hands in his pockets. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to say to Mr Editing, Eurostat is collecting data from KSH. Eurostat does not carry out an independent survey. Eurostat is basically working from the data of the HCSO. It is a question of whether Eurostat data refer to the reference year 2012 and were published in.13. What has now been published is the HCSO data for 2013, recorded in April 14. Therefore, Eurostat does not have any conceptual knowledge of data contrary to KSH, because Eurostat is working from the data of KSH. That's all I wanted to say as a correction. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-86	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Mr. András Schiffer.
u2014-12-02-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the thing is, you see, we're nervous. But you know why? Because it works and it can be seen in the debate of the entire budget law and the underlying salad, that while people in Hungary, working people, are getting poorer and some people on the other side are getting richer. I would like to say to Mrs Bangóné that this proposal means that the reduction of the rent will continue, but not just anyone. As of January, nothing will prevent the support from the Minister's wife, the Deputy State Secretary, the child of the public official who made the grant decision, or the person who prepared the decision. So we're going to continue to reduce the rent in your circles. So the thing is, while your economic and social policies result in more and more working people working for less and less money, on the other hand, legalising theft for people close to the fire. The fact that we're, say, a little nervous, I think that maybe it's understandable and appreciated. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-88	Thank you very much. The next pre-notified speaker was Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2014-12-02-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Which is why we're more nervous than you are about us living in the country, and we're even going to the market. The Secretary of State said that more people could heat their apartments than last year. I don't know if Mr. Secretary of State has been to rural settlements lately. [[Károly Czibere: I've been there.]] I go to the apartments very, very much, because I'm invited in. One thing I see is that families who were able to build the family house around 90 from two-handed work - you know, Mr. Secretary - are now skateboarding the upper floor and heating the bedroom and heating the kitchen, because there is no money left for the rest. He works the same way, he does the same job, he pays the same tax on his work, but he can't heat his house, which he could create with his own two hands. It is true that the children have already flown out, and so they say at the age of 50 or a few, that it is fortunate that the children do not live at home, because it is enough to heat their bedrooms and heat them when they cook in the kitchen so that they can live in these two rooms. That's why it's a very, very hard sentence to say that more or more people can heat up these apartments because somehow people don't feel that way. Moreover, if we look at the gas emissions due to heating, the levels of toxic gases have increased a lot over the past few years, and experts have also said that there have been gases that have not been found in the air in recent years or even for almost a decade. The reason for this is that the population is heated with things that have not been done before. They don't heat gas because the gas's already off. They can't really heat with wood either, but, you know, Mr. Secretary of State, I was told last week at one of the residential forums in Iregszemcse that, for example, the poorest families are heated with those clothes - and whatever family we can talk about, the poorest families - that they get to dress their children. They use the suit to heat you up, because it's the least they can do to heat you up. And if the question is whether the child should have three pants or be warm and, say, be able to write or prepare for the class, then it's not a question for the family that the plus one will heat with a winter coat that you can find at home. [[14.30]] What's very interesting about the foundational law is that your forced selection of chimney sweeps will be raised to a year and nine months. That's also sweet, because I've told you many times that it's very nice when disaster management appoints waste companies because they can't do their job. Here, disaster control will designate new chimney sweeping companies, which will also not have the money to provide this service normally due to the reduction of the costs, and then we will see that carbon monoxide poisoning will increase in families; it is your responsibility somewhere, however we consider this matter. I therefore submitted an amendment to you, because I think that we have already called your attention to the fact that the chimney sweeps in seven counties wanted to terminate the service at the time, because they could not maintain their service because of the reduction in overhead costs, and at that time the president of the National Industry Board of the Hungarian Chimney Sweeps has already indicated to you that this cannot go on. Then you said that the municipality would compensate these companies. He himself called it a scam, since this compensation was not granted. What is very adorable and very interesting is that five of your fellow Members in Fidesz submitted that amendment to the budget itself to increase the support of chimney sweeping companies by 100 million, as they felt it too, as they felt this problem in their own settlement. I think it's not normal for you to extend this forced selection period to a year and nine months. It would be normal for companies to be able to operate, if they had budget conditions, there would be laws where they didn't have to designate the provider for disaster control, both in chimney sweeps and in waste shipments, because most people already feel that they can't pay the garbage charge or pay the heating, and they can't even buy the wood, as I told you. We have also been trying to point out that, let's say, from the product fee and the deposit fee you froze at the 2013 level, most of the companies couldn't pay this either, so it doesn't matter what level you freeze it, if you don't get the money from the companies, because you simply can't farm it, but at least what comes out of these amounts, the soap tax has been brought in at the cost of the product, which would be paid in, and what is being taken from the people would be at least spent on waste companies to create a pricing that is acceptable for both the service provider, for the municipality and for the population to pay these fees. Because, you know, for people working decently with two hands, it would be a decent, reassuring life if, at the end of the month, you felt that you could safely pay your bills, pay the garbage bill, pay the chimney sweep, and do everything else, and live your life in peace, and not as the Secretary of State said in the debate the other day, so that somehow these people could make a living, so that they could have at least the minimum things. I don't think these people deserve the minimum. I think they deserve a decent life that you've been taking away from them all along. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-90	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Novak, Jobbik.
u2014-12-02-91	Dear Parliament, As a result of the lobbying of the Holocaust industry, a sentence could be included in this 194-page bill, which is what I would like to draw attention to, since it provides billions of forints. Therefore, I would like to highlight the great speech of Gábor Staudt in the 204th century. The Act amending the implementation of the Paris Peace Treaty Act of 1947, in the sense that the deadline finally closed in May 2006 can be reopened to apply for holocaust damages at the Hungarian Jewish Heritage Foundation. In addition, this budget of nearly HUF 2.5 billion, which I earned from the 2015 budget, is HUF 2 billion,486,8 million, an increase of 44%, compared to, say, two years ago. So while there were supposedly very few survivors, that's what they say, but it seems that as the decades passed, there are more and more of them. Moreover, not only can someone now say that if he had not thought, let's say, until 2006, that he is a so-called Holocaust survivor, this amount is not even increasing following inflation, as it does not increase, let's say, family support and much else, there is not even a way to talk about inflation monitoring, it is growing by 44 percent here. Earlier it was said that there was no room for new compensations, that is what was said about the compensation of the victims of communism, but now we see the opposite. Without violating the memory of the victims and respecting the feelings of their relatives, we cannot go without saying a word about such another billions of forints expenditure, especially if we add that there are countless other similar expenditures in the annual budget and its sub-schemes. We have repeatedly called upon the government to finally answer whether the Hungarian society has paid with this new multibillionaire Holocaust benefit once and for all against Jewishism [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The president bells the bell.) Then how long will it take to make amends? Maybe until the end of time? I look forward to your substantive response. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-12-02-92	The next two-minute Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2014-12-02-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to help Mr. Secretary to be a little more informed. KSH. I'm going to talk about household food consumption per capita in these two minutes, not about luxury expenses, food consumption. KSH. In 2010, the rate per capita was 43,3 kilograms of bread and 39,4 kilograms in 2012. Meat: 53,7 kg in 2010 and 50,8 kg in 2012. Eggs: 148 pieces per person in 2010, 128 pieces in 2012. Feed: 16.9 kg in 2010 and 15.7 kg in 2012. Sugar: 13.5 kilograms in 2010 and 12 kilograms in 2012. Fruit juice: 12.8 litres in 2010, 10.6 litres in 2012. This is the level of food consumption per capita. You're not trying to tell me, Mr. Secretary, that people have become less hungry and they need less food in 2012 than in 2010? And if we look at what's going on in 2014, it's not better, it's probably even worse. Mr Secretary of State, these are the things we have to face, these data, and we have to make a positive change to these data. KSH. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-02-94	Thank you very much. After two minutes, Mr Nándor Gúr again, MSZP, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-02-95	Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I have four things I'd like to deal with. Now I will not repeat the KSH data, but I would like to recommend it once again to the Secretary of State, just to browse a little bit, and, after processing the experience, he knows what needs to be done in this regard. Four things, first I want to deal with private pension fund issues. Here is what I would like to note, just for the record. I think that the HUF 3000 billion, which affected about three million people, is virtually nothing more than the category of money being burned and what meant loss-making investments for Hungary. We know, you know: MOL shares for HUF 500 billion. And what about it? If it had to be sold today, if it was sold, maybe half. It is also well-known that in 2001, if we were talking about a private pension fund, I would add the foreign currency loan topic you like, the story started in 2001. Viktor Orbán, György Matolcsy, Járai. You know these names, don't you? Okay, so we're good, then we've got the base. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] They also know that in 2010, when we got to the change of government, there was Lajos Kósa, Szijjártó's speeches in the vicinity of the benches, what meant to the forint. [[14.40]] They also know what they may have done in 2013 in terms of the end repayment, when they provided considerable help for the people who repaid tens of millions of HUF. You know, among the walls of this Parliament is a Member who has paid back tens of millions of forints, has won millions of forints on this, and the National Tax and Customs Office has not been able to examine where those funds come from. This dishonesty, this dishonesty! So I think that when you talk about people, about their salvation and about many other things, it is worth thinking about what you're doing. And now, in terms of private pension fund savings, we need another HUF 200 billion in addition to the confiscated HUF 3000 billion, because they couldn't collect it from net tax and a lot of other things. They try everything, they do everything they can to take everything they have from people. And in the meantime, where's the personal pension account? And in the meantime, what about the pensions in 10-15 years? They don't think about that. Of course they don't. They're fed or fed, and they don't care what happens to people in 15 years. It doesn't matter! Speaking of pensions, I'll add three more items to that. Before 2010, you protected pensions: we protect, we stand up for pensions, you give us a guarantee. In 2010, after the elections, the first statements state that all pensions that were made before the retirement age were reached will be abolished. One was not - you know - the possibility for women to retire after 40 years of service, but here, as I said yesterday, they lied against society, because they changed it not after 40 years of service, but after 40 years of entitlement, the ladies can retire, which is a more restrictive condition for them, meaning less service periods for them. But in the same way, the types of pensions that gave people the chance of early retirement were eliminated. And what have you decided these days, what do you decide? It is not possible to obtain an early discount period in the coming period, as from 1 January 2015. In dangerous areas where there is radiation danger, there is a hot plant, where drivers on buses and trains risk not only their own physical integrity, but also others - and many other activities could be mentioned - they are liquidated, eliminated, and despite the occupational health damage in people's lives, it doesn't matter. Of course, you never measured it, you never do impact studies about anything, you just decide. And when the problems arise as a result when accidents occur, God forbid, whether on the railway tracks or on the roads, will you be able to cope? Will they then stand before the people who lose their family members, precisely because of the psychological strain and many other occupational health damage these people were unable to avail themselves of the rightful benefits? So what are you gonna say? Then how will you act? You might want to think about that, too. Are they going to hide? Or are they just gonna ignore it? It's the greatest cynicism they can do. In terms of early retirements, some HUF 34 000 million will be withdrawn from the scheme in the 2015 budget. That's how much they reduce it. They think I need this money, of course I do. We need to build a stadium, and God knows what else is important to you and the moonyard. But even what employers pay at the same time, in a single amount, in advance, the 13 percent contribution, even that is taken out of thought, is not given the opportunity. An employer, who wants to take care of, say, a 61-62-year-old person, because he has actually suffered health damage, and he thinks that, of course, from an economic point of view, it is better for him to take care of it, to ensure a calm transition, while he can replace a young person, an energy-filled young person, with economic benefits and returns, and on the other hand, because of empathy, he can provide his former employee, pay his contribution, no, you don't have to do that either. It doesn't matter that employers do normal, logical, forward-looking things in this respect, the point is: if you said that there would be no age reduction, then there would be no. Then it doesn't matter that the employer does a charitable act towards his employee - no, it won't! [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] the third thing I would like to mention is the liquidation of the National Labour Office in relation to the world of work. This is also wiped from the surface of the earth, smashing the system to pieces, and they say that they are building a friendly service system by breaking it up, by throwing everything that worked within a single framework to five or six places and working well. Cynicism is frightening when it is said that it should be placed in competitive situations when you monopolise different service surfaces, so to speak. The one where people with the most unfortunate fates who have lost their jobs or couldn't get a job for a long time want to put them on the market? Don't you feel that this story is too cynical? Don't you feel that this is controversial? I would also like to add that by eliminating the fact that they are breaking, they are not solving the situation. In the context of the National Employment Fund, which replaced the Labour Market Fund at one time, employers and workers are practically receiving more contributions, giving them more contributions, projecting them, but while they are collecting more contributions from them, for example, the active employment policy, which is about finding a helping hand in the form of grants to make it easier to work or/or to acquire new skills, taking place, feeling sorry for the money, giving away the funds, giving away less than before. How does this system work? Is it just a public employment story? I understand the essence of public employment, believe me, Mr Secretary, I am not opposed to the public employment that produces a product, the public employment that does not give rise to a temper between the people employed in the competition and public employment. But the public employment that is based on l,, art pour l, art, which means supporting the shovel on one side in the afternoon, on the other side, doesn't make sense, and it doesn't work for the person with whom it is done, and there are a lot of these cases. And there are many good examples, and I would like to add that, but this is not your glory, because this has been the case for decades, that there have also been processes combined with value creation. I would like to tell you that people should not be used as statistical subjects. It should not be used to take them out of employment, unemployment and job search benefits through statistics, and to put them in the public employment as quasi-employed, and to shout that employment is increasing in Hungary. Bullshit! No, I'm afraid not. The figures and statistics of employment vary as a result of public employment, and the fact that those working abroad - Matolcsy: 500 thousand people, now talking about 600, do work abroad - the part of the group of economic persecuted who does work abroad not more than a year ago is included in this, and the fact that in many cases they made four-hour people instead of those employed for eight hours. 50-60 thousand more people employed in four hours now than before, four years ago. You don't have to make four hours out of eight. No! You have to make four hours or eight hours out of zero-hour employment, that's employment. Where? In the competitive sector, where they produce transmitter forints. You said you'd create a million new jobs, but not just anywhere, in the economy, where taxes are produced. They're not doing anything about it. Nothing! [[14.50]] They lie to society, they think that's enough. I'm sure until now, but in the process, in the long run, it's certainly not enough. And one more question on the issue of poverty: Mr Secretary of State, KSH; only KSH, nothing else. Social inequalities are increasing. You need to know Secretary of State, November 26, 2014, KSH. Social inequalities are increasing, and this is broken down by the decline in the proportion of income earned by people in the lower income classes, as they progress in time. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? [[Charles Czibere nodds.]] Okay. [[Defiance.]] If you understand, then do something about it. If you understand, then take action to ensure that people who live on the edge of society, who, in a sense, suffer their daily lives, can gain only a very small percentage of income, do not earn a declining income, but increase, because social peace will only be in this situation. Don't want a social explosion, Mr. Secretary. Don't want to, believe me that those szabolcs, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county representatives, see what's going on in those areas where people suffer their daily lives. It should not be taken from the financial surfaces of the municipalities where they can provide direct, manual assistance to people. You have to think about how to help you do that. The share of the poorest should not be reduced but should increase in terms of income, and today it is decreasing. But to be clear and clear, I will give you two examples. I'm going to split those who work and earn incomes into five income fifths, 20 percent. I give you four figures and compare them, 2009, 2013: In 2009, the lower 20 percent, the worst 20 percent, obtained 10 percent of the available resources. Not much, but he got ten percent of it. In 2013, this lower 20 percent achieved 8.6 percent of the available resources, i.e. their share decreased. While in 2009, the top 20 percent achieved 34.2%, which is quite significant, but in 2013 what does this situation look like? I'm also telling you, 37.2 percent. That is, over the course of a few years, during the period of your administration, the bottom 20 percent of income was reduced by 1.4 percent, and the upper 20 percent of income was increased by 3 percent. While the minimum wage for the minimum wage today is worth less than the purchasing power of 2010; while the minimum wage, the scissors, opened up between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, has been further strengthened. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] I can give you a lot of numbers, Mr. President, but the bell is the bell, so I'll finish what I have to say. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-96	Good afternoon. Welcome. I am pleased that everyone understands, and I am also the Member, the Secretary of State, the Member, so the Secretary of State is asking for the opportunity, Mr Károly Czibere. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, KSH, KSH. Bread consumption 2003 [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. László Kács: We're listening!]] 2008-2009; bread consumption decreased from 57 to 42.25 percent. Meat 17-15, milk from 63 to 53, eggs from 174 to 148, that's 20 percent decrease; fat from 6 to 3.6, and halving. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What are these? Tax keys?]]
u2014-12-02-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're gonna have two-minute comments. [[Károly Czibere: This is the year before the crisis. Here's the KSH.]] Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor. [[Noise, interruptions.]] By the way, in the Hungarian Parliament, they call only one representative Staudt Gábor, he gets the floor, no one else does. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-99	Thank you, especially when it comes to my time, so let me ask my fellow Members for their insight. [[Defiance.]] So I would like to point out that if there were any new claims for compensation that could be opened here, then in the case of war criminals, war widows and war orphans, the so-called compensation which was closed by the 1994 law, which was to be paid to them in one amount, and which was not in order of magnitude from the amount that was withdrawn from them during the years of communism for political reasons, we would like these benefits to be reviewed, since, at the time when we submitted a resolution proposal, the government and the present Minister Csaba Hende said that the government did not wish to grant any new claims for compensation or to reopen the old ones. But I would very much like to see these people properly accounted for by the government. The point is that during communism, in the Rákosi system, their benefits were taken away, the benefits that fit them, and in 1994 instead of calculating the amount that these people would have lost and paid for them, I have to say that this would otherwise have been with interest, would have been fair with interest, rather than a lump sum compared to what was lost to them, they would have had a very low payout. We'd like to see the time to settle with these people once in a while. These people are looking forward to it, they were very confident that this could happen in 2010 or after 2010, but unfortunately, this was not important for the Fidesz government. They always find reasons and arguments for rejecting the complaints and legitimate needs of these people, but unfortunately, I fear that they are playing to the death of everyone who was entitled to this benefit at the time, so that after a while there will be no one to pay for it. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-100	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, two minutes.
u2014-12-02-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. You must know that the global economic and financial crisis was in the fall of 2008, right? You know, after all these years, you've referred to the fact that you're still feeling the effect. Well, then that series of data you're using is about that time period. So, compared to that, there's a steady decline in your time of government. But not only do I want to talk about this, I want to talk to you not only about KSH data, but also about factual wage and process changes that, if you are not aware of, you should be aware of; I said one thing: the minimum wage is worth less in purchasing power than in 2010. 66 483 HUF today, it was 60 200 HUF in 2010, and count back 18 percent inflation, and you will find out how much this money is worth today. It was worth 5 thousand forints less than it was in 2010. You also know what I just started, that in 2010 the minimum living wage was 77-78 thousand forints per person, 60 200 for the minimum wage, there were 17-18 thousand differences. Now it's 88,000, while the minimum wage is 66,000, the difference is 22,000, five thousand more. On one side, when people have it in their pockets, they have less, on the other side, when the difference increases, the burden increases, then the situation is more. In the meantime, when we talk about wages, let us not always talk about the minimum wage, the minimum wage, let us talk about what the salary bill for civil servants today looks like. The salary base in your four-year cycle has not changed by a single penny, HUF 38 650. You know, there hasn't been a cycle since the change of regime where there wasn't a change in salary. And what did they do with the wages of the public workers? It's not just about how much he's grown and how he's grown and how he's grown, it's about how they've made 47,000 bucks for them. Now it's around 51,000 forints. It's a shame they want it for pennies. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] Keeping people in poverty, Mr. President.
u2014-12-02-102	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Members, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to show you something, I'm sure you know the material. [[He's showing it to me.]] Although after what has been said here, I am not sure: Hungarian national social inclusion strategy II. I came to you last week with a public interest request for data because this strategy was not public. And see, I got the answer, and on the 25th, it became public, and they put that strategy on the website. I'd like to read to you from page 69. 5.2.1. The objectives of the strategy are comprehensive and specific objectives. I'd like to highlight some of them, and you'll find out why. [[15.00]] 1. Reducing the proportion of people living in poverty and social exclusion, particularly with regard to the Roma population. 1.1.2. Economic and entrepreneurship development for the employment of disadvantaged, low-skilled people, in the primary labour market sectors with high living needs, social economy, atypical forms of employment. 1.1.3. Improving the availability, quality and efficiency of labour and social benefits, services supporting labour market integration. 1.1.4. Developing and expanding the system of public employment as a value-added work for the community, strengthening, where possible, the transitional nature of personalised public employment in the open labour market. 1.1.5. Developing an activity-enhancing support system for employment. I suppose you'll explain to us what this is. 1.1.7. Prevent further increases in income inequalities. What were you thinking, Mr. Secretary? 16 times. In your time, the income gap has grown brutally..2. Point 1.2: prevention of the re-production of poverty and social exclusion. What were you thinking, Mr. Secretary? Reducing the poverty of children. I know that it will come with the KSH data again, and I would like to mention one: Hungarian Academy of Sciences, 42.2 percent of children under the age of 7 live in poverty in Hungary today; we are talking about children under the age of 7. 2.1.2. Improving the availability, quality and effectiveness of child welfare, child protection benefits, services. 2.2. Improve access to education for Roma and children in persistent need. We've reduced the education obligation to 16 years, you see, Secretary of State. Reduction of unqualified school leaving. 16-year-old age, Mr. Secretary. Improve equal access to socio-economic goods and strengthen social inclusion. Surely Lajos Kósa, Péter Szijjártó, Lajos Simicska - or how many others do I list? - to talk about this point because it's incomprehensible to me. Improving housing conditions, improving the safety of housing, increasing housing opportunities, renting. They're taking away housing benefits from 500,000 people and families. You know, Mr. Secretary, they're taking multiples of what a reduction in the rent means to them. Improving the health of Roma, people in long-term need and children, increasing life expectancy at birth and improving their access to the healthcare system. You know, Mr. Secretary, when these underprivileged families are deprived of aid, they won't even be able to go to the doctor. Not that you can't replace your medication, which is common now that you can't buy medicine for your child if you accidentally send these kids, say, to the county seat, to the hospital, you won't have a chance, because there won't be any money to pay for your travel expenses. And last point: involvement of stakeholders in the design, implementation, evaluation of the programmes. Now, that's the most important thing. It'd be nice to ask the people involved sometimes. It is instructive, sometimes it should be read by those who write this material, because there are interesting things in it. From the same material - because I asked that question twice before, but I didn't get an answer - I'll read you something again. Page 80: kindergarten. Involvement of the guardians and the child welfare services and the provision of kindergarten support should encourage parents of children with multiple disadvantages to start their children in kindergarten at the age of 3. Parents should be helped to ensure that the lack of material things - appropriate clothing, travel expenses, and the rest - is not an obstacle to going to kindergarten. You understand, Mr. Secretary, what we're talking about here. Wind Bernadett already told me. They withdraw the kindergarten allowance when they make it mandatory for parents to have their children in kindergarten from the age of 3. What do you think of that? ! You'll think that the kindergarten teacher brings in clothes, detergent, toiletries for 30 children every day, which they pay well before then, and raise the price? Or what were you thinking? [[Zoltán Tessely: We're not at the market right now!]] Yeah, and they're gonna be punished, because if he doesn't go to kindergarten, they're gonna take the family allowance away from the miserable family, so if they haven't been thrown into the pit before, they're gonna throw dirt at him. Let him die, because there's no need. It's just a burden for the Fidesz-KDNP government, a burden! [[Zoltán Tessely: We are not in the market!]] And you know what? I've posted it twice, and I haven't had an answer to what they're going to do with medical care, pediatricians, when the child has to justify his absence, and the number of the parent and child will increase several times in the pediatrician's office, because the certificate has to be carried, because if he doesn't take the certificate, the family allowance will be lost. So, Mr. Secretary, that's not what I wanted to say in my speech, but simply [[Defiance, noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] You can't get on the agenda, the way you're acting in this Parliament. They pretend they have no idea, although I add that as a new Member, I sense that you really have no idea what is in this country. But believe me, you will be confronted with this, more and more by the Hungarian people, and in case you haven't noticed, here when I bring up preschoolers and children under the age of 7, here we are talking about children, the child can't defend himself yet, he can't do anything, he is at the mercy of everything they do to him. Don't do this! Don't do it! Those who always refer to the importance of the family as important to them, because they are our greatest asset, sometimes prove it within the walls of this House at a budget, at a foundational law, that it really is important to you, because I find it not so. I very much hope that you will not be faced with these problems late, and that there will not be unforeseen consequences, because the budget, if it is adopted by this House, will have such impenetrable consequences that I think no government could do in this country. Thank you very much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Bravo! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-02-104	Thank you very much. Secretary Tamás Vargha asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman Gábor Staudt said a few words about war care. Allow me to inform the Member and the House that the House is not discussing it as part of this law before us, but as part of the Act on the Status of Homelanders. Today, the Defence and Police Committee discussed a proposal under which the government will increase the supply of war widows by 50 percent in the care of war care workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-02-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Once again, we are returning to the list of speakers that have been announced. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that today, too, is certainly instructive, because this law is important, and there have also been important contributions from the benches of the opposition. I would like to add to Gábor Staudt's comment that any need for compensation, if it applies, the Hungarian Socialist Party, I think it supports it, but I definitely support it, because I think it is important. However, I do not understand the sentences of my fellow Member, Mr President, and perhaps if he responds in two minutes, I would like to thank him. For example, I do not understand what the so-called Holocaust survivors mean in his reading precisely, because I think that the Jewish price replacement, when it comes to this budget, I fully agree with him and support him, because those who were taken away and their family members suffered a great deal, and therefore I think it would be important to correct this issue. And my other question is, how much longer do we have to pay, there was a sentence like that, if I remember correctly, so I don't understand how long it's gonna take. As long as there's a Holocaust survivor, and as long as there's a law on that, I don't think it's a question of how long to pay. I asked for my original speech because I mentioned repeatedly the right of nationality authorities, and this government has repeatedly said how important nationalities are in this country. [[15.10]] Yet, when I see the bill, I notice that even on this issue, they want to manipulate me with the small resources that the national authorities receive. For example, there is a bill that is called 339. Paragraph 2 of the Act repeals CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Law 128 § 3 (a) and Article 156 (b) Paragraph 1 (a) and (b). To understand what this is all about, I'll tell you that there is a task-based funding in the national governments, and this, as I mentioned before, was in a point system between Parliament's walls for a good two weeks, so who has received how many points, which minority self-government has received as many points, has multiplied to a certain amount. It was mostly one million, one million, two hundred thousand forints to support a larger city's municipality in addition to the basic funding. So it's task-based support. Now they want to change this at a level that will not be decided by the government but by Parliament. It will also make the whole thing opaque, and there will be no guarantee provisions that are important for national authorities to receive task-based support. I have therefore, of course, tabled an amendment to this law, and I ask that both parts of the pro-government group support it. I would consider it important, given that nationalities are mentioned a lot. The other is the issue of poverty, which has been mentioned by many. A lot of people have told us how we see it from the opposition benches, and we don't stand up and want to say it because we just want to say things that are against the ruling party, but because, indeed, the man on the street has a different experience of everyday life that you don't see. Not only Borsod and not only Szabolcs now show this problem more spectacularly, but also in Hajdú, either in Zala county or in any Western-Transdanubian county. Here, rather than thinking about paying cheques, they might be able to pay them at the end of the month, but how they can arrange the twelfth and thirteenth checks on some level, the last part. They don't know, the unpaid checks piled up so much, they can't handle it. We're talking about debt management in housing, but believe me, we're going to be there if we look around a lot more, and they can't turn on lights during Christmas holidays in a lot of places. It's not a scare, it's a fact, because they can't pay the amount that belongs to the rent. Therefore, I think it is very important to pay attention. I know the government's sensitivity is usually there during winter. It is especially important because public employment is indeed an opportunity to see more on this issue. But I do notice that, at this time of year, the needy people, I think of families, do not get as much help as they should. Not because it's not a real winter yet, Mr. Secretary of State. But if the real, real winter breaks in, I think it's really bad because there's no heat or any other reserve that these people can live on. Therefore, I think it is necessary to prepare such a prevention programme. I know you say you do. Yet, a real prevention program has to be prepared to see what will happen in winter when the cold hits us, and from then on people's heating and other problems will grow. I have already told you about kindergartening and schooling, but I would like to stress in particular that there is not enough money for schools. There's not enough money for those schools that you very advertised two years ago, and you've tried to provide resources for them. Write and tell me that we have been running a community house in Nagykanizsa for 17 years, which is national, even international, but we need to close it slowly, because we haven't had the money to maintain our weekend college, our school. However, there are mostly hundreds of young people who are there, high school students, elementary school students, and even adult college students in this institution. We have to close it in February-March, because we don't have the resources, even though we've made several requests, but we don't. But we are not the only ones, I would add, in the country there are more of these, that well-functioning schools that help the state system in education must be closed. That's why I don't understand if they say there's money, there's good models, there's patterns that they've seen and seen in the past, but why there's no support in the budget, why we can't see that they want to do something with them. Because I see exactly the opposite, that they have taken this question to political level. Where the national government is yellower, they give resources where they don't give them. I have experienced this myself, too, in recent times, on my own skin, and my settlement has experienced this through me. This, I think, is a big problem because I am not the first to be affected by this problem, but the people in the settlement. I think we shouldn't punish an entire city for being a socialist representative. And the other is kindergartening and schooling, which is connected, by the way. I'll say it once more and with great emphasis: I think it doesn't work that one leg of kindergarten was created by the government. I think it is very important that preschooling has been made mandatory from the age of 3. I have considered this important for a long time, because I say that anyone who wants to develop must be given the opportunity to become more successful in school through kindergarten, or possibly even to higher education institutions, so I think it is very important for me. I just can't see the other foot, Mr. Secretary, where are the seats that we don't have yet. We don't have the seats in any settlement. In fact, I'd go further, even in smaller settlements. How, for example, will their feet be financed to increase the number of seats? I can't see, we can't see the other leg. Therefore, I think they have created and adopted a law that they cannot comply with, and then spread out their hands about what is the situation with this: well, we wanted children to go to kindergarten from the age of 3, but, if there is no room, there is nothing we can do. In fact, even parents will be punished because they say that if you don't send the child to kindergarten from now on, there won't be any help from the state. Therefore, I think that, in connection with this law, it must also be considered whether they can ensure that they are not responsible for the parent when he cannot take his child to kindergarten, but for themselves, because you are the ones who are making the laws that do not allow it. The third thing that is most important to me in recent years is that I think that the issue of employment cannot be measured in any other way, and this can also be seen in the budget than in public employment. I absolutely agree with my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, that is important where there is nothing else, but his alternatives are not developed, such as how primary market access will happen. People who are currently participating in various OKJ courses, almost most of them - most of which I would like to stress - are throwing money out the window because they cannot get a job because there is no market for those professions, if they do, entrepreneurs cannot really pay wages and contributions. Therefore, I think that, if the OKJ professions have been so embraced, as you can see, it should also be resolved that the market should also be supported, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that those who have completed OKJ training and acquired different professions, should have a market for their outlets. I know that a 100% situation cannot be established, but efforts must be made to ensure that these people are on the primary labour market as high as possible. I think that if we do not correct employment, then, Mr Secretary of State, we will also have a major problem with the issue of housing. It will ring not only towards children, but also into housing. Not only will the infrastructure be a problem if it can pay the rent or not, but it will carry the problem of preserving the apartment itself and other areas. Therefore, if we are to think in a unified and complex way, we need to put together and comb together the problems that the opposition is currently saying, namely, the issues of kindergartening, schooling and employment and housing. Otherwise, you can see that the country is becoming more and more poor, and rather than seeing the part of poverty that it cannot buy, it will not have a roof over its head, because it is so bad. Therefore, I think that there is a responsibility, a great responsibility for the government, and not only because we are now before Christmas holidays, but also anyway. [[15.20]] However, it is important to pay close attention to the situation of those who cannot get food, food, or other food. I saw your movie yesterday, some of the cubes on the news, where you just put a bag of potatoes in a minivan. That's very good. But I do not think that you can personally deliver half a bag of potatoes or other durable food, so the government has a responsibility not only at Christmas time, but it is extremely important to have a solution here, but in the month of January-February, wintertime or the next period, what solutions are being given to Hungarian society to stop poverty, because there is no longer any tolerance for Hungarian people. I think that the Hungarians are already at the point that they have lived up to everything, even their patience. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-02-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'd like to take a two-minute turn, but I can't see a candidate, so... - Gábor Staudt, who pressed the two-minute button at this moment, still gets the word. To finish my sentence, I'm not gonna waste your time, calm down, and next time, Lajos Korózs will be able to speak as a normal word applicant. Now, I'd like you to start Congressman Staudt's watch. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-109	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to Mr. Secretary of State when he said that war widows' benefits are growing. That's right. We're happy about it, but we're talking about two different things. Firstly, increasing the benefits of widows of war does not involve, unfortunately, and we have tabled an amendment, and we hope that we will accept that, for example, the benefits of war orphans will increase. In their case, a few thousand HUF increase - although it would not cost so much for the budget - would mean a significant increase in percentages. Raising the minimum old-age pension from 30 percent to 50 percent would mean only a few thousand forints a month, yet we would give them something. That's one of the problems. The other is that what we talked about during communism are benefits withdrawn for political reasons and compensation for them. These are two different topics. According to the 1994 law, they tried to compensate these people for a lump sum, but unfortunately, what they received was not in a thank-you relationship with the amount that was taken from them during communism. So the difference between the two still exists, in our opinion, as a right to compensation against the Hungarian State, from these people, and these amounts should be settled. This is regardless of whether you are now raising the benefits of the war widows, which, as I said, we are happy and happy, but the provisions of Law 94 should also be amended and correctly accounted for by abstract benefits under communism. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-110	Secretary of State Vargha asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-111	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the Member is pleased, and I think that both of his proposals should be discussed at the debate of another law or law. In the framework of this law, we will not know this now. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-112	Mr Lajos Korózs has the floor, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I listened attentively to Mr Tállai's introduction to the law, and two things caught my attention. One of them, Mr. Secretary of State, said that the reason why we need this 200 billion HUF, the savings of those who remain in the private pension fund, is because we need to finance the pension fund. Secretary of State, it's a big gas. There's a big problem if you need 200 billion forints to fund your pension fund, because then something very big has happened. I do not think that this is where the payment of pensioners at all stands or fails, whether the government has another HUF 200 billion or not. Look, I cannot be accused of being a devoted believer of capitalism, but I must say that in the mid-1990s it was possible to see precisely, partly from demographic forecasts, partly from the mathematics calculations that were carried out in part at the Academy's research institute by independent experts, that, unfortunately, after 2012, demographic changes in the Hungarian pension system will occur, which shows that the state will not be able to provide adequate pensions. I am, of course, speaking about compliance in an economic sense. The children of the Ratkó era knocked on the pension system with a large mass on 1 January 2012 and placed an outstanding burden on the pension fund. Of course, it is about the fact that in the '50s, from 50 to 54, more children were born in the order of hundreds of thousands than between war and 50, and hundreds of thousands more children were born after 54. A significant proportion of these people are entitled to the retirement age, 62 years, and it is legal to apply for a pension, since they have redeemed their own pension, 40-42, but not rarely they have paid contributions for 44-45 years, and have bought this right. Since we saw in the mid-1990s that there would be no adequate pension for such a large number of people, one proposal was to introduce a private pension scheme. I stress that I wasn't necessarily a fan of the private pension fund system, but once we had it, we were always trying to adjust to that, to clarify. Such a proposal was, at the time, the introduction of reinsurance into the law, in Hungarian: a private pension fund could not be ruined. This was the mandatory purchase of sovereign debt from pension funds, and I could tell you more. So there was a lot of insurance that guaranteed the members in it that they would get their savings in their old age. It was one of these items. The other: I myself represented at the time that we should not make it compulsory for everyone to enter the private pension fund, and I even said that those close to retirement age should not be valid, because a few years before retirement age, you cannot say: "Old, start taking care of yourself." Where the hell do you think you're going? ! He can't put that much money aside, so they're automatically left in the state system. And for the Middle Ages, this is what I represented myself - let us make it possible for those who still have the money to be saved to decide voluntarily whether to join the private pension fund and only for those who started their careers to enter the private pension fund. Now some HUF 3 000 billion has been collected in private pension funds, which is understandable to everyone. I'd like to step back to the law a little bit, and here's a moment that got my attention. Literally, the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund will cease, and it is justified that it has fulfilled its function required at the time of its creation. Now, I remember quite well that when you decided in 2010 what technology you would use to pump this HUF 3 000 billion into the public pension system, or part of it into the public pension system, you should see for everyone that since portfolio training was required by law and almost 50 percent of sovereign debt had to be bought, the other 50 percent had different discount tickets, different shares, foreign shares in it, domestic shares, and cash, which had to be kept in private pension funds. This latter was automatically trained by the cashier because the cashier who changed the cash register was transferred or transferred during the year. The point is this: right, what was a sovereign debt was practically shredded and burned after nationalization. After all, whoever owes you is already in accounting, although you are the accountant, Mr. Secretary of State, who owes you, and who demands you has become one and the same. Consequently, let us consider that this money is not available. [[15.30]] Well, there's the other part. There is still 1,600 billion forints there, and I would like to draw your attention to it, although you must know that if you were to steal this 200 billion forints now, you would not be able to register it in the debt reduction section, because the European Union will not contribute to it afterwards. The debt reduction could only be reduced by booking the previous HUF 1600 billion. If that money ever got there. Now, I'm a thorough man, I've been following up on a lot of things, and I stumbled across a report that was prepared for Parliament before last year on the management and activities of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. This report was never discussed by the Parliament. There are such strange things in here, there are such strange things that I have to share with the public of the Parliament. And, of course, for historical loyalty, I would like to ask the record a few questions. The 2010 CLIV. Law 16 provided for the functioning of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, and this Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund later cooperated with the body entrusted with the management of the public debt. Dear Secretary of State, this is what it says: "The Board decides on the sale of assets, the timing of sales, the use of measures to protect the value of assets, and provides for the Fund's funds to be covered by CLIV 2010. Act No. 7 This report shows practically how this money can be disposed of. 'Cause right now, I'd like to ask you a question. I know this isn't the time for questions or instant questioning, but I'm still looking for your opinion. Do you consider that in June 2011 the State Debt Management Centre will start selling assets on the market, while the strategy for the sale of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund will only be adopted by the Governing Board in October 2011? Well, there's five or six months in between, six months in a year. I don't think it's okay, but I want to know what you think. Do you, Mr Secretary of State, consider that without the decision of the Governing Board, you have decided to use a deposit-keeping service of HUF 511.9 billion without being authorised to do so? Mr. Secretary. Do you consider the operation and decisions of the Fund to be legitimised on 22 December 2010, but the Fund will only adopt its rules of operation on 31 May of next year? What was the basis for making decisions in the six months when their own operation was not legally fixed? And do you, Mr. Secretary of State, consider the decisions of the Fund to be legitimate, while Natran Roland was incompatible for five months, since he was the chairman of the governing board of the Fund and was appointed CEO of Eximbank? I think we should answer these questions. It should be answered, all the more so, because two years ago, the socialists turned to the relevant wallet with a request for data in the public interest. The following questions were asked. A sales strategy adopted by the governing body of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund was requested. A summary of the meetings of the Governing Board held in 2011 was requested. The 52 decisions of the governing body of the Fund were requested in 2011. So I stress that the fund worked for it; that it was not legitimate and incompatible and had no sales strategy, it took 52 decisions. They also requested the documentation of the fund's Governing Board's restricted tender for depositaries' services related to the fund's assets in respect of foreign securities. 'Cause that's what it was. In addition, we asked that the contract with Unicredit Bank Hungary Zrt. be made available on the basis of the mandate of the governing body of the fund for the provision of depositary services in respect of foreign securities held by the fund. As the chairman of the governing body of the Fund, Nátran Roland, in response to a letter of 5 September 2012 concerning the request for public interest data, states the following. As regards the sales strategy adopted by the governing body of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund and applied in 2011 and the summary of the management board's meetings held in 2011, it says:. The sales strategy relating to the assets sold contains data that would be adversely affected by the implementation of future sales and would cause disproportionate damage to the implementation of the Fund's business. For this reason, it refused to provide the information in this respect. Compared to this, a criminal complaint was also filed, namely our fellow Member Tamás Harangozó, and the decision of the BRFK to reject the complaint - I will not read it all - reveals that other investigative activities, requests for documents, hearings of witnesses, and the rest of the report have not been carried out. Please, we're talking about billions here. When assets are transferred to a portfolio management and are in the order of a hundred billion, it turns out that in a few months or a few weeks, almost HUF 20 billion will be booked with a minus, then it may be possible to ask, "My dear friends, where is this HUF 19 600 million?" [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: That's it.]] Exactly. I'd like to stress that I'm just asking questions. I don't make accusations, I don't make false accusations, but right now, it's no coincidence, I think we're exactly organizing a socialist suit. Thank God, lawyer György Magyar [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] He also agreed to launch the trial trial. There will be hundreds of members of private pension funds in this litigation, ladies and gentlemen, and we will see if there is still justice in Hungary. But here's the thing, Mr. Secretary. Don't think that these 3 million young people forgot that he had a savings account for 12 years because it was his property. The law on private pension funds has a paragraph which literally states that the savings paid in the form of membership fees are the member's own property. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-02-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's a two-minute lap. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-115	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State András Tállai doesn't need my protection, but it's strange that he built a long comment on the rebuttal of a sentence that András Tállai never said or couldn't say. He claimed that the state pension fund needed that 200 billion forint. The only problem, Mr President, is that you have said that you are a thorough man, and you have clearly shown that you have not been thorough enough to read this law. Because if you had read this law, it would have turned out that 200 billion wouldn't be transferred to the state pension fund. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Ágnes Kunhalmi intervene.]] Besides, it is worth looking at the press statements of the last few days, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga has also said about these issues. So, if you're a thorough man, you should have been well prepared. And the long preparation should have started by even reading the bill that you have been talking about for more than ten minutes today. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, to the fact that the pension fund is in fact in Hungary today, unlike your time, it is in balance. So you don't have to scare people so the government can't pay the pensions. [[15.40]] As a result of the reform of the pension system, we are guaranteed to pay pensions, not only can we pay them, but we also guarantee that pensions are safe. You have long argued how great this private pension fund system was, but today a significant part of liberal and left-wing economists say that it was a mistake to introduce it. Otherwise, it is no coincidence that no such system has been introduced anywhere in the world to the same extent as in Hungary; where they have been introduced, they are trying to withdraw from it as we have done in Hungary. Thanks to these steps, the pension system is in balance today. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-116	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs for two minutes. Here.
u2014-12-02-117	Yeah. The pension fund, my dear fellow Member, is relatively calm because no one could retire in Hungary in the first half of the year, and tens of thousands of people did not have to pay a pension for several months, because the retirement age is now rising, and who, according to old law, would have been entitled to an old-age pension on 2 January was only able to make use of it on 2 July. That's one thing. And the other is that tens of thousands of people have been crippled here. All I have to do is refer to the review of disability pensions, to the fact that all retirement pensions under the age limit have been abolished, to retirement pensions under the age limit, to invalidity and accident invalidity pensions, to early retirement pensions, and to the reduced amount of early retirement pensions. Today, tens of thousands of people are in a situation where they are over 60 years old, they have worked more than 40-42 years, but they can't retire, even though they have paid pension contributions for 42 years, because today they can only retire at an age limit. So tens of thousands of people are in such a humiliating situation. The other: let me just give you one figure. Since 2010, the number of people over 60 has increased by 9 percent and the expenditure side of the pension fund has decreased by 9.5 percent. Oh, the guarantee letter that was issued to protect pension funds and to protect pensions now applies only to old-age pensioners who have spent their lives. Technically, it can be taken away from everyone else at any time, can be suspended at any time, for any period, and can be reduced to anyone. What is not an old-age pension is no longer protected. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-118	Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2014-12-02-119	Thank you. Allow me to participate in the pension dispute. As far as private pension funds are concerned, we did not support the fact that the money extracted from private pension funds seems to disappear in the public budget that it will not be used for pension purposes by the State, so it will not create private accounts, i.e. personalised accounts within the public system. On the other hand, as far as private pension funds are concerned, let us not be deceitful. If private pension funds had remained in that form, there would have been no guarantee that they would make any payments. It is enough for such a business to go bankrupt, since it was private enterprises in private pension funds, which, by the way, did not produce a return as much as they promised to the citizens, while they spent unbelievable, amazing sums on their own operation, their own management, to ensure their own well-being. Private pension funds should not have been created in the sense they did at the time. This was a very good business for private businesses, which, of course, as I said, if they went bankrupt, there would have been no guarantee that they would make any payments. Of course, then the state would have reached into his pocket, or pointed to the state to stand up for these payments. But the government's failure can also be seen in action when it did not include that 3 000 billion in the state system by keeping it for future pension payments. And you must also see that the only solution is to resolve the demographic issue. If no more children and more able-bodied people are born in the future, an increasing number of people will not do value-creating work in the labour market, we can close the blinds. Or, as my fellow Member Z. Carpathian said, there will be a pension, but it doesn't matter how much it will cost, whether it can be made a living. That's the question. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-120	Speakers seeking a normal word will follow. First, I give the floor to Mr. President Novak, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki MSZP MEP asked me to speak and to think further. He said that there could be no question as to how long Holocaust compensations should be paid, and that even his representatives, in their irresponsible capacity, went to the point of saying that he supported all claims for compensation, including all new claims for compensation. Obviously, he was thinking of a Gypsy Holocaust compensation, but there are many ways to make up for it. For example, if we say that someone is a survivor of Mohács, he could claim compensation as a survivor of Mohács. For Mohachi was an emergency, it is unquestionable, or I'm sorry, and there is no punishment for someone, say, relativity of the Mohachi emergency, as opposed to the Holocaust, where we know that you have passed the law with the consent of Fidesz to punish it by law. So there's a lot to figure out. I don't think that's right. It must be selected responsibly, as we must address it in a budgetary debate. You have now brought this issue into the budget and into this agenda. I think that if they have reopened the possibilities for compensation - and they have previously said that they will not support new ones - at least this is how they were swept down when we argued for compensation for the various communist victims - but, yes, we would like to suggest one of the most outstanding ones to the attention of the government, which, unfortunately, there is no government proposal, and this is the payment of the unpaid wages of the workers of the Rákosi system. We're not even talking about some kind of compensation. We're talking about the fact that those who were taken away for forced labor didn't get their wages. There are fewer and fewer of them, one of their top fighters died this year, their representative Miklós Useful, but there are still some who have not received their unpaid wages from the Rákosi system. As to the question of what is the so-called Holocaust survivor, there are indeed many things to understand. It is actually a word composition that thickens meanings, and yes, it also has a meaning that it is possible to question the reality of certain claimants. And when you re-open the claim possibilities closed by this bill in 2006 - and you can say that there were few, but it seems that more and more of you are so-called Holocaust survivors - then you have to bring in those examples, those frauds, that someone only calls himself a holocaust survivor in the Holocaust industry for the sake of money, because although he wasn't dragged anywhere, he wasn't harassed - because they were fortunately so - but he was a survivor, he survived that era. Is that why he's entitled to compensation? I don't think there's any compensation. In fact! Here is a miraculous case, the personal story of Gábor Horn, who is the former Secretary of State of your government, the MSZP-SZDSZ government. I quote the amazing sentences of the 2007 public television programme A Freedom of Speech. He said I really, really hate it when I see Arpad-band flags in this country, because my parents were taken to the Danube. And now it's not even the first half of his sentence, it's the hungarophobic revelation, but the fact that his parents were taken to the Danube. Obviously, he didn't mean fishing, he didn't mean fishing, he meant, like they say, to shoot them in the Danube, did he? Well, there's just one little problem: Gábor Horn was born in 1955. Then how can he make his parents look like victims of World War II? How is that possible? There are some clever speculations here on how to resolve this contradiction, which Gábor Horn's statement suggests, but it is unacceptable that many people use this budget resource for a living in the framework of a series of frauds called the Holocaust industry by Imre Kertész, which has increased by 44 percent in the last two years, while family support...
u2014-12-02-122	Congressman, I'm warning you, if you'd like to put it this way, it's in line with the house rules. [[The Foreman of Novak: Absolutely.]] And be kind enough to make your speech with thorough knowledge, or I will be forced to withdraw the floor. You can continue now.
u2014-12-02-123	Absolutely thorough knowledge of the law 204. I object and propose an amendment to its abolition, as it amends the implementation of the Paris Peace Treaty Act of 1947 by re-opening the deadline in 2006 to allow new applicants until 15 December 2015. Well, who hasn't checked in for this compensation until 2006, and now they've figured out that, yes, he's a Holocaust survivor, too? I think that this is unrealistic, not realistic, and not fair after the statements by the government that swept down the various legitimate claims of the victims of communism, as I think the most justified missed wages were taken away for forced labour during the Rákosi era. [[15.50]] Therefore, we do need to point out that the budget law provided for nearly 2.5 billion forints, especially if we consider that it has increased to 44 percent in two years, this is extremely exaggerated, while, for example, family subsidies do not increase by one percent even after inflation, while at the same time, it is necessary to increase this multibillion forints compensation by 44 percent. I am very sorry that we have to talk about this at all in the context of this law, and we are not discussing, for example, at least the inflation monitoring system of family support, which I have repeatedly proposed. But if you have already smuggled into this 194-page bill this line of billions of forints, a single sentence, then it has to be said that we do not think this is correct, especially with regard to previous statements by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-124	Mr Congressman, before I give the floor to the representative of the government, I am obliged to draw your attention to the fact that from the fact that someone was born in 1955, his father was carried to the bank by the supporters of terrible systems. And the expression that he was obviously not taken there for fishing is a violation not only of the senses of the people who were living at that time but also of all the people who were well-meaning and democratically thinking. I had to tell you that. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]] I now give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, who wishes to comment on behalf of the government.
u2014-12-02-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Let me go on with this. I think that the Holocaust industry, in this House, in this country, is an insult to the ears and soul of all well-meaning and well-meaning people. On behalf of the government, we strongly reject any such speech. He is offended by Imre Kertész; he is Imre Kertész, and he is a Hungarian Nobel Prize winner writer. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]] I didn't plan on dealing with this, but I think it should be done every time. The actual topic is catching up. I would like to join or complement Mr Teleki's speech. I would like to thank you for the proposals you have made. I think we're on the same path. The fact that children, children living in disadvantaged families, really receive timely and complex assistance, whether in terms of financial support, natural support or service, which - this was a very important expression in his comments - are combed together, they know about each other, they appear in a coordinated manner. I think that over the past four years the government has spent nearly 100 billion forints on catching up policy from domestic and EU sources, and the main element of these, in addition to public employment or activation, was precisely that, in early childhood, from the moment of birth, they have been trying to create a circle of regenerating poverty that prevents it from being passed on to generations. It means that today there is a certain beginning, in which thousands of children can visit every day... - just recently. Yeah, there was a question like that, do I actually... - Yes, I also visit the Roma colony, yes, I'm sure I visit the children's house, yes, I visit outside the camera, just because it's the man's job, and it's his mission and his passion, I think. So, the Commissioner's start is exactly one of the most important tools in this, when, in three years, before the institutional help and service comes in, a help starts where both the child and his mother get help at the same time that can be effective, and through this it can be prevented this process of integration or exclusion. The fact that there are 23 child risk programs, you know that. This has reached 32,000 children in the last 3 years, and another 57,000, which means another 15,000 mothers, mothers, parents. These are data that show that the use of these funds is efficient and targeted, but these services are really in favour of segregation, and you know it. There are exactly the types of services that these children need, and the most important part of the children's risk program is the task of the child welfare system to put the professionals next to each other so that they can talk about the same family at the same table together as teachers, patrons, social workers, family care providers. It has just been three weeks since the evaluation of child risk programs for the last two years, and it has been confirmed that when professionals can sit down and discuss their experience of the family and combine these knowledge, they can really benefit the child. So this kind of complexity, which you indicated in your comment, I think, is an excellent way to see it in child risk programs. I think that, in the next period, it is important that the children's risk programmes that have fulfilled the expectations continue to be planned for the next period, and that further opportunities be given. Let's hope they're passed on. That's true of the schools, the school is the next step. Similarly, we spend 4.2 billion forints on schooling for the next three years. I think that the schools are one of the most proven - I agree with you - services, so it is not in the interest of redevelopment, it is in the common interest to further develop them. 3100 students received help in the schools. These are tangible results, and it is important to communicate this to the public that the money spent on catching up is not wasted money, not once there will be results, and now there are tangible results. The following is related to the school: 1800 primary schools today have integrated pedagogical programmes in 1800 schools. I think it's 75,000 elementary school students, and the integrated program is extended to kindergarten, 25,000 kindergarten children. So I think that we can reach 100,000 underage disadvantaged children and help them towards integration in kindergarten and elementary school. Once again, these are programmes that are essentially invented, conducted by the local faculty, and in all cases we see that they have been effective. In addition, the Roadway Program, which helps 15,000 children in value of HUF 3 billion, will continue with this. So I think that if we look at the support of families caring for minors, disadvantaged children and disadvantaged children, which is a central element of the catch-up policy, so that the scope of poverty can be broken as soon as possible, then there are results in this. The important thing is to learn lessons together and to evaluate these programmes. There is also a programme, there is no need to hide it, which has not been installed there, has not been attended by professionals, or was an installation error, then there is a lesson to be learned here, but we will learn these lessons in the planning of the next period, and we will look forward to your proposal, how to expand, deepen and intensify them. The following is: I have partially answered the Member's question on child poverty. I think the fight against child poverty is a common matter. Here, in this debate with the Members of Parliament, with the Congresswoman, I think it is important that, as long as a child is poor, as long as a person is poor, there is a common concern, and the task is to help them in a targeted and effective way, but all three issues are included in this, namely the social support system, the system of benefits in kind and the collusion of the service system, each other's attention and coordination. I think we need not only elements that are so-called "needed," so we need to prove poverty in order to get help. So in many cases we would like to go in the direction that children's lunches and similar types of benefits are becoming less and less important in this area, but we can expand them better. The measures, such as the reduction of overhead costs, the free textbook or the food allowance, go in this direction, which are also an important part of social security, which I am convinced is our common concern. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2014-12-02-126	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, Two-minute round, first, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-02-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of what he has said, I find the person of the ancestors of Novak unworthy to argue with him at all. I would like to condemn all this, in the same way, as many have done within the walls of Parliament. Condemn him because I believe that those thoughts cannot be heard within the walls of this house, nor can they, outside the house. Mr Secretary, I would like to say two brief points to the summary, not to the summary, but to the confirmation of the former. I understand that in the direction you are directing things, I even agree, in principle, with what you are saying, only with regard to practical implementation I have a lack of feeling. I would like to wish for you, on the one hand, to convince the members of the government within your own government, i.e. within your own government, the members of the government that you are talking about here, that action against child poverty is essential, and that there is a first priority for what needs to be done. I'll give you an example: Child poverty and stadium. Which one's ahead? I'm dealing with child poverty. I feel like you do, too. But you're gonna have to enforce that. Yes, dare say to Viktor Orbán that today in Hungary, Prime Minister - in his own speech - we must put resources into the system to eliminate or reduce child poverty, and not to build 6-8-12 new stadiums. Take this role and find some partners. We'll be happy to be partners in this. I suggest that the amendments that we are submitting, which are trying to achieve this goal, help us to achieve, support you personally, and make sure that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Members shall also support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-02-128	Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-129	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you of the sentences Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and my fellow Member Teleki said earlier. I'm sure you're familiar with the "Better for the children" national strategy, created by your government in 2007, but nothing else has happened in this matter. As mayor, we expected that if there was a good strategy - I must say that this is a good strategy for child protection - then what will be the message of this down in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, but we had to wait until 2012, my fellow Members, to have something, because then we managed to create our children's risk program, which is called the "Wake up," knocking on the fantasy name of the future. We were aiming at raising and helping 10,000 children in the birchbátor region. We have built children's homes, community houses, settlement community houses, mentor networks, schools, early development programs, thirty-one camping, 150 events for children, fifty family days, four large family events. The thirty - one camp was attended by a thousand of the ten thousand children. This cost 600 million forints, the child's chance programme paid for it, which the Fidesz-KDNP government paid for. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It was a courtesy of our small region. Where were you in 2009 and 10? (The President rang.) Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-02-130	Mr. President Novak is next in two minutes. Here.
u2014-12-02-131	There have been several delays in my speeches, but at least I would like to put in place the thoughts of Secretary Charles Czibere. Yes, Imre Kertész called the Holocaust industry the phenomenon that unfortunately existed. And yes, he asked for it in an interview, which may have escaped the attention of the Secretary of State that we should not label him Hungarian. So when I called him Imre Kertés, not only doesn't violate the dignity of this House, but he specifically respects it. Of course, you donated the highest state medal to Imre Kertész, you may think otherwise, but you may have missed the attention of the Secretary of State with the writer on his 80th birthday, an interview published in 2009 in Die Welt's online edition, in which Kertész made it clear that he did not want to be labeled Hungarian. At this time, according to the public's thoughts, Budapest is completely balcanized, and considers the people of the country to be liars, who are still unable to face their past. In the interview he repeatedly made a deeply offensive statement to Hungary and Hungary. Thanks to the Nobel Prize, he used international attention not to make his country of birth more recognized, promoted, and sometimes even rejected. He himself asked Tilman Krausé, who interviewed him, not to label him Hungarian. According to Kertész, it is not a question, and I quote how he was able to live with the Germans, as it is even more shocking how he was able to live with Hungarians earlier. I think that, based on these statements, the least I can do is reserve the right, otherwise I think he himself asks us to call him Imre Kertész, not Imre Kertész. But I'm sorry that the Secretary of State reacted only to that. I'd like you to respond to what's in the law, the paragraph that you have in this 200-page law in 204. I was placed under Section 2 of the Act, which would allow the possibility of re-opening the registration for compensation. What is the reason for this if it has already been closed? [[The president's ringing the bell. It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-12-02-132	Dear Parliament, The president has no place and way to participate in political debate, but there is a way to draw attention to the fact that not only did Imre Kertész receive the highest award of the Hungarian government and Hungary, Imre Kertész - I say, Imre Kertész - but he is the only Nobel Prize winner of this country. And that's not dependent on governments. I now give the floor to the congressman applying for a normal word. Next up is Zoltán Haughty, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-133	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I did not ask for two minutes because I would like to respond to several of my fellow Members in a longer-breath speech. I'd like to start with Miklós Simon. I think that we have nothing to be ashamed of in camping matters, because there have been countless catching-up actions in the period when we were on the government. True, we didn't think of building an Ocsan ghetto. It is also true that we did not want to put day - old chicks in unheated houses at the end of February. It's also true that we didn't share a pig that was obviously eaten within two days; and we didn't share any fucking potatoes, which, by the way, I'm telling you, has been a criminal case ever since. So we definitely didn't do that. There are a lot of things, yes, but I don't want to take the space away from my former colleagues in the social sector, so obviously they'll have some reactions to that. I would like to tell Márius Révész - while he went out - that I do not think it normal for Members to work in the legislation from the newspapers. We work on proposals. The proposals are still alive until they are modified. Therefore, the einstandos proposal on the private pension fund is also alive, no matter what anyone says and will be alive until this parliamentary majority changes this, let us say, in the form of amendments. So everyone must be on the lookout, although they have clearly told everyone, the three million people, that they should consider crossing, and that they should not stay in the private pension scheme, because they will not be able to obtain a public pension through that amount. Plus, the person who wanted to stay had to make a statement, not the person who went into the system. I think that, in particular, the fact that he wasn't getting a state pension was a huge lie, because obviously the government at the time knew that he couldn't do that. Anyone who pays a pension in any system, and we've obviously paid it to the state since then, can't take away his entitlement to the state pension. So it was a simple extortion, it was a coercion, because it took another 3000 billion forints. [[16.10]] In the system of national cooperation, there was a need for revenue that could address this problem. It's just that we're out. So now we're at the point where that money ran out and didn't bring any benefits, because what they bought from it from Raba's stock to MOL's stock doesn't bring the proceeds. Obviously, the stadiums will not bring the revenues, especially now, where they did it, so far they will only bring costs, because Hungarian football is far from there to play matches in front of, say, full-house stadiums. In fact, we have come to the point that in an NB III match, there are sometimes more people in a small settlement than, say, a brand-new, renovated stadium, a big one. So I think it was a wrong political decision. It should be admitted that the huge money spent on this has not served either health education or anything else. They served as a very, very good result for someone, since these objects had to be built. I'm guessing there's a lot of panic in certain circles who've already rubbed their hands in advance about how much money they're gonna make when they build the South Stream. It's probably the same for the earth speculators, but there is such a thing as luck, I might say to you. I would like to say to Mr State Secretary that I would like to come up with any success propaganda on child poverty as long as children are in school on Mondays, if you do not believe this, ask my wife, and I would be happy to call her, who teaches at a school where there are relatively many children with so-called less-favoured conditions, so to speak - so we should not be able to argue about this. There's only one thing we can do to stop this somehow. But this cannot be eliminated, as Sándor Font, the President of the Commission, who I respect, said, why people complain about child poverty when all children, almost all children - I report, until the sixth grade - get an apple and a glass of milk. That's a cynical answer, because I'm suggesting she spend all day, especially in a row; eat it and then drink the milk. It's gonna be okay, by the way, I'm telling you this now. So I think we should take this more seriously. You have to take it more seriously, and you can do statistics by eating two pieces of grill chicken, and my neighbor won't take one, and then on average, we're both full. It doesn't work that way. So you can play with the statistics. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Rather, vice versa.]] By the way, I was able to eat it when I was bright, unfortunately now it doesn't work, because while you've been actively and seriously doing physical work, you've had a need for calories, and now you've had an age to make it less so, but that's not the point. I can still eat for someone else, but that doesn't mean he's gonna be fed. I think it's an eternal truth. I also think, and I would also like to point out to the Secretary of State that today's news is that the mayors of small towns... [[For pro-government interventions:]] It's not about submitting the bill, it's just that you've heard from the newspaper that the aid system will not be normative from 1 March. I think that when a government begins to transform such a system - I can imagine that in small settlements the mayor connected with 15-20 percent absolute Fidesz knew about it, they talked to him. But the majority is an independent mayor, and if their organisations are not involved in a transformation of volume where, after 1 March, almost one person will have to decide - in principle, in certain municipalities where there is no tax power - without a source to give aid to, I think, that is extremely irresponsible. It is extremely irresponsible because they expect solutions from people who may not have the opportunity to do so. It is also dangerous to base such a system on tax power because it is enough for a larger employer to leave a settlement, say, a small settlement, and from then on he will no longer receive an advance in that year, such as business tax or nothing. Now, he's fit for tax power, but he won't have a penny for aid. You can take credit only if the government agrees; you have no assets to run or move, or you can start a business with, because the government took it; from here on in, this is a hopeless situation. I think that before this is launched, we should take a huge breath and break off with the practice that is the biggest complaint of all economic operators that they are not involved in any of the sectors concerned. This week was the biggest congress of business associations. There it was said that the minister has refused to see their representatives for five years. Deputy State Secretary for the Highest Level Meeting. Ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about 100,000 people, about 100,000 employees. It may not be so, Mr. Secretary of State, or that department does not feel that way, but it is a shame. I can't say otherwise, because you can't do economic policy without talking to the people most affected. I believe that Magos knows everything as an advocacy, but the problem is that precisely the circle that is waiting for something to happen, and somehow the Hungarian countryside to go forward... - these are the workers who are still working for relatively decent income and under normal conditions, announcing a pension, realizing what their fate will be. Because the government has decided that, for example, 60% of the current, let's say 60 percent private, 40 percent social enterprise is making 80 percent private and 20 percent social, so that it hasn't talked to anyone about it. The problem with this - as I referred to the mayors in the context of the aid, and in this connection we have tabled an amendment - is that this cannot be done because who will be the 20 percent? Of these, 10 percent are the large business community that is clearly linked to Fidesz, and in 2001 it was privatized, let's say, along with about 300,000 hectares of state land, it might be the circle that they think it should remain. But who's the other 10 percent? Will he be appointed, like in the field contest, in advance that you can stay, you can't stay? That's not how the economy works. The way the economy works is to invest, try to give people a living, and if we get a proper incentive in the sector, it might be a lot more. There is an employment programme on the table from several branches, which in 4-5 years could only bring about 100 to 150 thousand jobs to the countryside with very small help and legislative corrections, not to the basic agricultural activity and not to public work, but to additional activities that have already been experienced in Hungary. So I think that we should talk about these things, and when there is a debate about laws establishing such a budget, they should be put on the table. You have to make a table of what it takes to say that one of these starts. 'Cause what we see is that a million jobs don't turn into anything. Fidesz's agricultural politicians promised to make 250 thousand in the sector. I have some bad news. There's been a decline in the number of people active in agriculture. It's also statistical data. Maybe it's bad, I don't know, but I don't think it's because it's usually not something that people argue about; which means that fewer people in this sector are going to make a living. That's not good. It is not good, because neither the countryside nor the small towns can absorb this liberating workforce, because they too have a huge burden on them, and now they have such regulations, if I remember correctly, that they will be able to borrow if they prove what kind of economic development they have started. This is gonna be a problem. I would be very careful to keep this legislation going. This was already partly on the street, partly in an interim election, and partly in a repeated election. Notice that. All we suggest is that you note - you still have a long time to correct - that Hungary would be in the interest of being corrected and not of the type of reaction L. Simon László, who is sorry that he is not here, because I obviously told him to his face yesterday, even now that such impudent, impertinent reactions cannot be answered. I'm forced to say that the two state ministers present are taking their job a little more seriously, I see. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But there's still work to be done here, there's plenty of work to be done, but at least they're sitting through this debate fairly, and they're not just texting the citizen on TV about how stupid they are about reality. I don't think this bill is right. So these prepared or these proposals and ideas put forward are nothing more than to keep this system going as it has been. It can't work like this, it's gonna be a huge mess and a huge scandal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-02-134	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, There's another two-minute lap coming up. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-02-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my words to the Secretary of State again. Today, my opposition colleagues have properly formulated our criticisms of the reform of the social support system, and I have done so, so I do not wish to do this again. [[16.20]] However, as I am reading here on the Internet - and we have had a serious debate after you said that you do not see any connection between the imposition of a municipal tax and the cuts of the social support system in the municipalities - I would like to remind you with respect that here is the first example. The self-government of Mindszent - unfortunately, I am not happy that it is in Csongrád county, and that it belongs to János Lázár's constituency, by the way, the city of Mindszent - decided at its extraordinary meeting on Friday to introduce a land tax of HUF 150 per gold crown, to levy a vehicle tax on those vehicles that had not yet to be paid, and Mayor Károly Zsótér said that this money, of which, by the way, 7-10 million HUF is actually thought to receive, will increase the social benefits - I stress once again, increase the social benefits - and, by the way, this money would also be available for the maintenance of external roads. So, Secretary of State, I really didn't want to make context theories, but it was expected that this would be the practice. That's what small settlements are gonna do, by the way, but the question is how people are gonna pay for it. Thank you.
u2014-12-02-136	Thank you very much. State Secretary Czibere has spoken. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, since the local government and local authorities cannot know how much funding they receive through the territorial settlement system for the financing of municipal aid, it is not because of the restructuring of the social support system that anyone currently decides to increase or expand local taxes is doing so. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why? Sándor Szabó: He will tell you!]] - it's important to state that - no matter what you refer to it. I'm sorry for what you've quoted, but you're not saying it's because the funds are falling here, you're saying it's because you want to expand social support. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] If you do not currently know how much resources you will receive, because it is an important figure for your budget planning, and you can only do so in the light of that, then you cannot be a reference. [[Sándor Szabó intervenes.]] I understand you quoted the mayor's words, but I just wanted to shed some light on this connection here, to say the least. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-138	We will continue with the two-minute comments. Congressman Gábor Törő, Fidesz.
u2014-12-02-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would reflect on the words of Congressman Haughty, only in a few sentences, I am not in the habit of yelling. It is indeed true that six hundred people came to the ground before 2008 without a tender, and there were those in my mind who, from 2008 to 2018, could, by the way, get to the ground without a tender under the then socialist government, and since 2003 there was this process. There were 600 of them in total. Now there are 6,000 of them. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You are right, however, that if someone has 200-300 hectares of land today, lives in a family, has a son, wife or son-in-law, is mechanized, they do not even hire extra people because they grow agricultural crops - wheat, corn and others - which do not need extra labour, they improve machines in winter, and they cannot actually employ extra workers. This is precisely what the proposal was made to link crop production to livestock production, to increase labour-intensiveness, and to bring fruit production and vegetable production into this, and this will have a positive impact on employment policy as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-140	Congressman Zoltán Gőgös has come forward on a case-by-case basis [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, I'm sorry, I pressed the wrong button.]] But he pressed the wrong button, so then it's time for Congressman Zoltán Magyar, who is the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I was inspired by what was said in the debate. That's why it's possible to guess who's gonna be the 20 percent social enterprise that's gonna be able to survive according to Fidesz. As Zoltán Gőgös has already said, we already know the first 10 percent, because the dirty 12 will certainly stay on their feet even in such a way that the privatisation has indeed taken place in extremely suspicious circumstances, and to date it cannot be investigated, and to this day we cannot know how an interest group close to Fidesz could have obtained such a large amount of state wealth. And I'm seeing two basic parts of the other 10 percent right now. One is the kissers close to you, who, by the way, win most of the state land, and the other is the circle that you blackmailed, who now owns the state lands, and who, for example, have been offered to them, according to rumors - not one such case has come to us - that decision-makers have said that if you set the area payment rate for 10 years in advance, you can certainly keep the state land in question, and you can use it for 20 years longer. We have also heard that it has developed a system of irrigation on hundreds of hectares, i.e. a mix of kft., EU and domestic sources, and then the new owner has been replayed this complete system without having to pay the price, since the land lease tender was issued and then withdrawn for one day, and with this trick the state practically damaged this irrigation system, paid it out to the old owner, and your new landlord, your kissing buddy, received this modern irrigation technology free of charge and paid for the state land. That's the kind of trick they use when they play land for themselves. It also shows who will be the 20 percent social enterprise that will remain. These are the ways they work everywhere. It would be good to think about that, because this is not the path that they promised their constituents. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-142	Dear Parliament, We will continue the work by speaking to a representative who has asked for a normal word. Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-02-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dr. Miklós Simon spoke to me, and I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that we are talking about the foundation of the 2015 budget, not the 2006 budget, not the 2010 budget, but the 2015 budget. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: His foundations are there!]] When we talk about poverty figures, I was at my children's demonstration week last week - that's what they call when we visit classes - and I have interesting experiences every year. I would like to join Congressman Zoltán Gőgös with regard to the consumption of apples and milk for children. It is commendable that this programme has been continued, but, you know, the problem, Congressman, is that these children are so hungry that they also lack bread, butter and salami. Believe me, it's hard to swallow that apple with milk when that kid's really hungry. Trust me. It's been said several times that the numbers are stubborn facts, and then I'd say numbers. I won't be long. In Hungary, 7,6 million people aged between 15 and 74 were living in September 2014, with a total of 200,000 public workers, if there is an adult entitled, can receive an allowance of HUF 23,000 in addition to the salary of HUF 50-70,000; there are 170 thousand registered job seekers out of 380,000 unemployed, up to HUF 45 thousand in benefits, and 210,000 in no way, but no benefits; 130 thousand passive unemployed people who have given up hopeless and expensive job search and are also unable to receive any benefits; at least 150 to 200 thousand persons are excluded from unemployment registration and community work because they have committed something or have given up self-employed persons because of lack of money, lack of information, lack of physical and mental breakdown, they are unable to apply to employment agencies. It's almost a million people, including family members, at least 2.5 million. Of these, about 800,000 children under the age of 18. In 2011, in the lower income fifth, in the poorest two million, there were 685,000 children under the age of 18. Up to a quarter of the 2.5 million poor can be Gypsies. The poor children will live in half of the village. Social assistance was granted to the smaller part of them. Another public employment research based on other data, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, has quite similar results: in Hungary there are over one million people on the edge of the labour market. About 3.5 to 4 million people have a member on the edge of the labour market in their household. Among them, the situation is particularly difficult for those who have no active members in their household other than those on the edge of the labour market, they are close to a million and a half. In these groups, income poverty, housing poverty, poor nutrition and the rest are two to five times more common than the average. [[16.30]] The various unemployment benefits and benefits reach roughly half of them and the other half are not receiving any benefits. A very important sentence follows, honourable Member Miklós Simon: this study can be found on Parliament's website. [[András Tállai goes to Dr. Miklós Simon's table.]] I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, honourable Member: in 2008, 24,4 percent of Hungarian children had to face serious material deprivation. In 2014 - I would like Mr Tállai State Secretary not to hold Miklós Simon up so that he can listen, because this is very important. In 2014...
u2014-12-02-144	Congresswoman! For now, I'm chairing the meeting. I can see that; I'll let you know when I think I can.
u2014-12-02-145	I will start the sentence once again: in 2008, 24,4 percent of Hungarian children faced severe material deprivation, and in 2014, 35 percent already did so. This is worse than Romania. We're just ahead of Bulgaria. I would like to quote a sentence, because this sentence is very important, and I would like to conclude my speech, Zsuzsa Ferge said: "The government plans to cancel all aid in three years - that is true - and the first step will be taken in 2015. It is impossible to calculate the impact of this, but we can say that by 2018, most of these groups, with at least one and a half million people and 400 thousand children, will be judged in a social way that there is no need for them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-02-146	Thank you very much. Mr Károly Czibere asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-147	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Looks like we're going back to the stats, so I think it's important to list five data. 2014 from 2013! One more time, okay? So from 2013 to 2014, KSH, it takes place by asking 18,000 people, so this means that the range of relevance of the data is tenth or century accurate. On the one hand, the proportion of people with debt repayments or household payments decreased from 26,2 per cent in the population to 24,9 per cent; the risk of a lack of adequate heating of the apartment is from 13.7 per cent to 11,2 per cent. The proportion of people who do not have a car for financial reasons decreased from 24.6 percent to 23.9 percent. The percentage of people who cannot afford a one-week stay per year has decreased significantly, from 66,6 percent to 59,6 percent. There has been a significant decrease in the proportion of people who cannot afford to eat meat food every two days, from 33 percent to 27 percent. The combined severe depriviation rate of four items, i.e. calculated by both HCSO and Eurostat, decreased by 11 percent. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-148	Mr Nándor Gúr asked for a two-minute speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The only question now is, what lists were selected on the basis of. Were there any Kubatov lists or other lists in hand when they helped carry out measurements? So, you know, statistics are such that the preparation determines things to a great extent. I do not say that this has happened, but there is already doubt in man when, in terms of everyday life, he encounters the level of poverty he sees, and when the Secretary of State tries, forgive me, to get the category of bullshit accepted by the Members of Parliament or the people who listen to us. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] I would like to focus no more on statistics, but rather on the fact that poverty is, unfortunately, being carved, deepened and expanded in stone in Hungary today. You can say anything, but unfortunately, that's the fact, that's the reality. You and I, together, should be thinking about how to change this situation. I've given you a hand in this, so to speak, that I'm happy to do everything I can to change that, but I see you're just looking for credentials for yourself and for you. The other thing I would like to say briefly. With regard to the previous speeches, I feel that what they do and what they say is dissonant. Dissonant, repulsive, because they do not want to face the situation, they do not want to accept the willingness to help with solutions. I don't know how to go forward like this; it doesn't. Rather, I suggest, Mr Secretary, that we try to think together in order to see how this situation can be changed, because it must be changed, and that is not in question, I think, for you, either. Once again, please contact Viktor Orbán with this. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-150	Dear Parliament, I don't see any applications for any more speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] There's no such person. This means that the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2014-12-02-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have been debating this package of laws since 10 a.m. for more than six and a half hours, 112 laws are included in this law establishing the 2015 budget. It is a particular situation for the Parliament to discuss the budget in a completely separate time frame, and the law on which it is founded - which, by law, is much more extensive - separately on a separate day. So, watching the debate, I have to say that I think that we did not really touch on three quarters or four fifths of 112; perhaps I did not mention it in my expo, but during the speeches by its representatives. So this proves that basically the bill on which the budget is based is a technical bill rather than a substantive one. There were, however, substantive things to be said, and I saw the speeches grouped around three themes: the restructuring of the relief system, the further settlement of the private pension fund system, and some speakers here in the public finance field found something in the bill that they considered worthy of expressing their views on it. I listened with great pleasure and interest to the debate on the transformation of the social assistance system. I would like to thank Károly Czibere for his position on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and for answering the basically opposition questions raised. I also make an opinion as former mayor and former municipal secretary of state. I think that this direction is what the local government is responsible for and what the state is responsible for - because the district offices are carrying out aid - it is the right thing to do. It is a good thing, and I think it can be done for the municipalities despite the short deadline. If the municipalities receive adequate data - which they also know, in part, what kind of aid they are receiving now, they will now receive support from the State - the system can be transformed by a regulation. The budget will be known, but in December 2014 the new system can be transformed. I think that what can cause uncertainty - which has been said here - is indeed that the municipalities that do not currently have a reserve, because, let us say, debt relief has not caused any operational ease or, perhaps, a reserve or operating bonus, how will they be able to take over and finance the new aid system. I believe that this question is fundamentally justified, but over time we will see that it will require a completely different view from a municipality of what kind of support it can give to whom, because it will be completely merged with the public employment system. For basically in a small settlement or in a larger settlement, the people who do not have a job - who are still supported by the state or the municipality on a social basis - come to the full attention of the municipality. [[16.40]] The question here is that the principle that instead of working instead of being assisted, how will the local government be able to adapt it, so to speak. The first and most important thing is that all people live on the wages they receive for work, and then comes the relief. There will be greater opportunities in the field of public employment, as HUF 270 billion is available in the budget, and it is calculated that up to 40,000 more public employees will be able to be brought to work, carried and set up on an annual basis. So the first thing is that people get jobs, and only then will these certain aids come. This will be a little difficult to change, I think, indeed, this will not go overnight, because by the time the financing part is fully developed, I am sure that the experience of this year will have to be taken into account, and by 2016, a more complex system, a complementary system will be possible, building on each other. The debate on poverty is enjoyable. What I see is that we do not read a number of statistics, and we do not approach these poverty figures in the same way; in many ways, the ruling party and the opposition see this issue differently. The next big issue is private pension fund regulation. What I see here is that the socialists, who have developed and created the private pension fund system in almost Europe, still want that system to work, as if for some reason this private pension fund system was missing. I just don't understand why, because when it was wound up, the Prime Minister himself - the then Prime Minister - said Ferenc Gyurcsány that we are paying pensions from the IMF loan. Is it okay to raise people's money into a private pension fund, which, by the way, is deducted from their income under the law of the state, we give it to private people to handle it, and otherwise, the state pays pensions from IMF loans? Or is it okay that, at the time of the change of government, the pension fund had 357 billion minus? This system did not work any longer, which was said by the European Commission, the European countries said that this system was not working, still arguing that it was good then and that it had to be brought back, that it was absolutely impossible. And those claims, of course, have returned 3 million people to the state pension system, and there are a total of nearly 100,000 people left who have made a separate statement that they would like to remain in the private pension scheme. Their status from 2011 onwards was very interesting, as the state is also withdrawing contributions from their income and will end up in the state pension register. For them, the savings that were paid to the private pension fund from.98 to....was left over by that 100,000 people. By the way, 30 or a few thousand out of the 100,000 people in three years, because they wanted security, and they preferred not to stay in the private pension system. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Because they have made private pension funds impossible!]] So it's just that someone thought that if he paid from 98 to 2011, right, for up to 13 years, he paid to the private pension fund for, say, 10 years, he said that the contribution that was deducted from me would stay there, and that he would receive his pension for 10 years from this private pension fund. Yes, but it turns out that private pension funds are not operational, and now there are 4 out of 19 private pension funds left. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How can this be?]] the 4 also have a loss-making operation, and the operation is mostly loss-making. They're holding themselves up from donations, benefits, which isn't real. It is feared that these private pension funds too, because they cannot maintain their ability to function, will go bankrupt, and then who knows what will become of wealth, or they will begin to live up to their wealth completely illegally. Well, the state can't let that happen anyway, and he says if private pension funds don't pay their own contributions, then the private pension fund can't operate anymore. Besides, the State's commitment, Zoltán Gőgös himself said that this is the case, we are paying contributions to the private pension fund, but the state cannot do that, otherwise, it will not pay pensions. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I didn't say that!]] Well, according to the socialists, that's not how it works for us. No one wants 200 billion forints, thank you very much, the budget is in order [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then why did you do it?]] It's okay. We did it so we couldn't say that because of Zoltán Gőgös, it was because of 61,500 people or Lajos Korózs, or Sándor Burány, and when he goes to get his pension, we'll tell him that you don't get a pension for 10 years, because you left your money in the private pension fund, and it went up in the air, that's why. So right now, the member of the private pension fund can decide whether to stay in the uncertainty or to go back to the state pension fund, and then, by the way, his real return and what he got... [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where is the individual account?]] There's an individual account, and it's working, so we can still track down who's making a deposit. Don't be surprised, Congressman, that we will soon have more information on this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We're just happy for you.]] I think that the 200 billion nobody needs, the security and responsibility on the part of the state, to give 61,500 people the security and the opportunity to get a full pension, and the 8-10-13 years they've paid, don't let it go, because now, when the number of private pension funds has dropped from 19 to 4, and 38 thousand people have gone back to state, there's a fear that this trend will continue, and in the end, this will happen. Anyway, they're begging and begging for this private pension fund to go on like this. [[Nándor Gúr: I'm afraid you'll protect their pension too!]] And we thank Zoltán Gőgös especially for finding out that he used to eat two chickens in the same day. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Was that the point?]] Not now, because that's what the congressman said. As far as public money is concerned, I think that there may be some misunderstanding, as it is a matter of the fact that two passes of the 2007 CLXXXI Act on the transparency of public funds will be repealed, which will essentially be transferred to the Public Finance Act, namely the present Act 54. § (a), (b) and (c), as regards the public. So it is quite certain that this is an excessive expression of opinion, and I am sure that, when the bill is adopted, both conflict of interest and disclosure rules will comply with the original 2007 law. In total, the part concerning State aid is transferred to the general government bill. It was a very interesting part of the debate when both the betterman and the LMP Members called on the Fundamental Law they did not vote for, never supported, in essence against our own bill. So they refer to the Fundamental Law voted by Fidesz and KDNP that it is not possible to do such a thing, which they otherwise did not support, and then now they come up with the fact that they will defend this law by defending it in accordance with the Fundamental Law voted by ourselves, because it is against the basic law. This also indicates that there is no obvious intention to adopt any public financial regulation against the Fundamental Law in force from 2012 and therefore excessive fears are not true. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Loránt Hegedűs for her contribution, because she started by saying that we can support two things and that she has given her positive opinion on the Stability Act, and thank you for that. [[16.50]] , (b) and (c) as regards the public. So it is quite certain that this is an excessive expression of opinion, and I am sure that, when the bill is adopted, both conflict of interest and disclosure rules will comply with the original 2007 law. In total, the part concerning State aid is transferred to the general government bill. It was a very interesting part of the debate when both the betterman and the LMP Members called on the Fundamental Law they did not vote for, never supported, in essence against our own bill. So they refer to the Fundamental Law voted by Fidesz and KDNP that it is not possible to do such a thing, which they otherwise did not support, and then now they come up with the fact that they will defend this law by defending it in accordance with the Fundamental Law voted by ourselves, because it is against the basic law. This also indicates that there is no obvious intention to adopt any public financial regulation against the Fundamental Law in force from 2012 and therefore excessive fears are not true. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Loránt Hegedűs for her contribution, because she started by saying that we can support two things and that she has given her positive opinion on the Stability Act, and thank you for that.(16.50) On the other hand, I cannot agree with your vision for the future, because there will be no increase in the number of independent officials for 3,000, 5,000 or 10,000. Whoever said this anywhere remains 2,000 people and there is no government centralization effort for budgetary institutions and municipal mayor offices, and I hope that there will not be any soon. There's no way to read that from this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your cooperation, and we will continue the work with the budget and with this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-02-152	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's response. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the report submitted by the Media Council on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2013 and the joint proposal for a parliamentary decision on its adoption presented by the Cultural Committee will follow. The proposals were submitted in B/113. and H/1947. available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that a detailed discussion of the proposals will be held by the Committee on Culture as a committee. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Karas Monika, President of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, B/113. The author of this report. Madam President, please.
u2014-12-02-153	Mr President, Dear House, Every year, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Media Council account for their previous year's work to the National Assembly. In the present report, I would like to present the main elements of the Media Council's activities in 2013, as the Committee of the House decides that the report of the NMHH on communications will be discussed and decided by the Economic Committee. First of all, I thank you for the opportunity to present the main points of our previous year's work to you, following my presentation to the Committee on Culture. I also tried to show a comprehensive and realistic picture of our organisation before the committee, and now I would also like to address the issues raised in my previous report that are relevant to the functioning of the organisation. As you know, the Media Council is the independent body of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the successor of the ORTT, the National Radio and Television Board, and thus it is closely aligned in its activities with what is described in the media law and the media constitution. We can also say that media administration laws are a sort of line leader in our everyday work, we perform our tasks on the basis of their content and taking them into account. As a lawyer, I consider it extremely important for our organisation to comply with its enforcement activities in the best possible way, but the mission of the Media Council, together with the members of the Council, is clearly more than a simple application of the law, since our decisions have an impact on the lives of the whole country and all media consumers in it. I always stress that our work is not only a task, but also a profession; it requires determination and maximum professional humility. It is our mission to ensure equal access to information and cultural goods for all Hungarians. This is taken into account in the sale of radio frequencies, in our work on protecting minors, and this is the principle that guides us when we make decisions in the evaluation of applications under our support system, the Hungarian Media Patronage Programme. If I may, I would like to highlight some of our important activities, which were decisive in their weight in 2013, not only in the Media Council and the NMHH, but I think in the whole country's life. Dear House, In 2013 we decided again on a number of radio applications, which will allow the most worthy media service providers to use the frequencies. It is important to know that the Media Council acts transparently, impartially, in accordance with the rules laid down for each tender. This also means that we offer free applications to everyone, and by providing the best of our professional knowledge, we choose the media service provider most suited to the application conditions for frequency use. In 2013, a total of 31 draft calls for proposals and 35 calls for proposals were adopted, and since the proposals launched in 2012 were added but not closed, 54 procedures were closed last year. I trust that our decisions will give students the highest possible level of radio programmes. In addition to radio broadcasting, 2013 was mostly about television broadcasting in the lives of NMHH, as this year the Authority implemented the national digital changeover. Although most of the work was done by the authority, the Media Council also contributed to modernisation with its own tools. In Hungary, as you know, the digital switch was completed on 31 October 2013 and the analogue terrestrial television broadcasting broadcast with a history of nearly 60 years has ceased. Thanks to the development, a new era of television has started, the available free content has been significantly expanded, and new services have also been published. Nearly 1.8 million households moved smoothly to digital television in Hungary, and in doing so, in Hungary, Europe, in an otherwise unique way, the needy households received state aid for the transition. We are proud that we have had the opportunity to help so many people, and we are glad that we have achieved our goal: there is no one left without a TV show after the transition. In conjunction with the work of NMHH, the Media Council actively participated in supporting the transition of local televisions, 37 of the 38 local analogue televisions operating made use of the digital changeover. This means that, on the basis of the licences issued by the Authority, the vast majority of local televisions are also eligible to operate local DVB-T broadcasting stations, i.e. digital terrestrial television. In this way, it was a great advantage for local TVs that we launched a tender with a total budget of 312 million HUF under the Media Council's support system, the Hungarian Media Patronage Programme. This specifically financed the digital transition of local TVs. So we did not leave small televisions alone either, because we believe that the transmission of local values is also a major contribution to an equal opportunity distribution of information and cultural goods, and that local TVs are also suitable for community formation. This is why we considered support for their digital transition to be of paramount importance. Thanks to the digital transition, parents can protect their children from harmful media content even more effectively, as digital receivers can set up a child lock, which also takes into account the age rating of movies. The Media Council's age rating activity therefore has a specific impact on such practical situations. The legislation and recommendation issued on this subject work well on the basis of the experience of the years, as there are few cases of public announcements to the body regarding the poor age rating.In 2013 a total of 11 cases were dealt with by the body in breach of the legislation on the protection of minors, which shows a downward trend compared to previous years, i.e. it suggests that media service providers increasingly behave in compliance with standards. We are also trying to create equal opportunities not only for minors but also for other vulnerable groups. For people with hearing disabilities, the accessibility practices of media service providers showed positive trends in 2013. [[17.00]] These results were mainly due to quantitative expectations, as the number of programme hours with subtitles has increased significantly compared to the legal provisions, even though these standards provide for more and more accessible programming times each year. Several cultural, entertainment, religious and children's programmes were offered and TVs also pay particular attention to the accessibility of news programmes and programmes for disabled people. Although the accessibility of political programmes and live broadcasts has not yet been resolved, this is particularly problematic for media service providers in a live debate programme, and there are problems with the quality of subtitles, but in 2013 56 percent of the programme time was already covered with subtitles or sign-tongue assistance, while this figure was only around 46 percent in 2012. All in all, we can therefore say that for hearing impaired people, the practice of accessibility of television programmes is moving in the right direction, and that our deaf and hearing compatriots are increasingly able to access valuable television content more and more precisely. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Media Council, as I have already stressed, not only regards its work as a task, but is committed to contributing as effectively as possible to the emergence of valuable and non-legislative content on the broadcasting board of radios and televisions. I also think it is important to mention that it has been said several times before, and you are obviously interested in the question of the fact that we have also carried out procedures for breaching balanced information. In 2013, the Authority, i.e. the Office and the Media Council, acted in 34 cases in relation to a request for balance. The vast majority of the 34 applications evaluated or submitted during 2013 came from TV2, 15 cases, RTL Klub, 11 cases, and ATV, 4 cases. In these cases, as in all our activities, we have done as thoroughly as possible, but you should know that what is balanced and what is not, ultimately, is not determined by the Media Council, but by a judicial decision every time. At the same time, I can say that in many cases applicants, i.e. those to whom balanced information has not been provided, have received a positive judgment. We are confident that these cases and these decisions will encourage media service providers to increasingly follow-up behaviour. The issue of the proportion of Hungarian music has already emerged at the meeting of the Cultural Committee. Of course, in this area, too, we are trying to encourage media service providers to follow the law in terms of the Hungarian music ratio, and we also find that this is happening. The Media Act is 21. § (1) requires that, in the case of commercial radios, at least 35% of the total annual programme time for the publication of musical works should be used for the presentation of Hungarian music works. It is important to ensure that this obligation is complied with in the 5:00 a.m. to 24:00 a.m. This means that the works broadcast at night cannot be accounted for. This obligation applies only to district or national commercial media service providers, not to local commercial operators, as appropriate. At the same time, since the entry into force of the Media Act on 1 January 2011, the Media Council has made Hungarian musical commitments an incentive in its local commercial calls. This means that there is therefore an extra point in the evaluation of the tender if they undertake the 35 percent ratio required by law. Experience has shown that applicants assume this additional obligation without exception, but this is only binding on media service providers declared successful in the local commercial tender procedure launched after 1 January 2011. The contracts concluded with local commercial radios prior to the above date shall, mutatis mutandis, lack this obligation. This 35 percent quota was lost in 2011, 33 music radios in 2012, and 13 by 2013. Therefore, there is certainly progress in media service providers. Where the proportion of Hungarian music is underrepresented, we will always initiate proceedings and, in line with the penalty trend, we will impose an increasing fine on repeat offenders. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Parliament, However, the aim of the Media Council is not only to resolve situations where the problem has already occurred, but also to put valuable and enjoyable Hungarian content on the television and radio programmes. That is why we have been operating our support system since 2011. The support scheme has been named the Hungarian Media Patronage programme, which aims to implement a framework of support in Hungary that enables talented filmmakers and media service providers to implement ideas for demanding content. Our aim is to help the creators reach as many Hungarian television viewers as possible the information and cultural goods represented by the works. In 2013, we supported 119 ideas in our proposals to support independent Hungarian filmmakers, with a total of HUF 1.2 billion. The supported plans included screenplay, TV, documentary, educational film, short film, experimental film, online distribution film and animation film. Many of the works may be behind them, which strengthens us in the right way of our decisions. And the diversity of the genre represented by the supported works appears on the television channels, as one of the conditions for applying is that the candidate cooperates with a media service provider, so he can show where, which media service provider will present his work. We spent more than the film framework in 2013 to support media service providers, and we contributed more than HUF 1.3 billion to the operation of local and community radio stations and televisions. We have announced 312 winners in five competitions, supported the production of news programmes, public magazine programmes, contributed to the overhead costs and digital transition of media service providers, and funded the technical developments of broadcasters. It is important to mention that Hungarian artists from across borders may apply for several applications of the programme, in most cases they have a separate amount at their disposal in the announcements. We trust that in the future we can expect their applications to be in ever-increasing competition. In total, we distributed more than 2.5 billion HUF of funding under the Hungarian Media Patronage programme. The feedback received from the winners shows that there was a great need to renew the aid scheme, and they consider it a good opportunity to raise funds to implement their plans. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak. Allow me to say on behalf of the panel that our work has been guided and guided by professionalism and the interest of the Hungarian public in the future. I trust that we have been able to properly demonstrate the diverse activities of the Media Council in 2013. I ask the House's support to accept the 2013 report of the Media Council. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-02-154	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr János Halász, rapporteur for the Cultural Committee, H/1947. The author of the proposal for a decision.
u2014-12-02-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 10 November, the Cultural Committee discussed the report on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2013 and the Committee concluded that this was a comprehensive and thorough material, a detailed report. A report from which you can see that the Media Council has helped all Hungarian people to have equal access to information and cultural goods. [[17.10]] The material is extensive, but also meaningful, in 11 chapters the Media Council discusses the work, including topics such as the chapter on the operation of the Media Council. But the material is about the state of speech, opinion and freedom of the press, the balance of information or the evolution of the ownership of media service providers and broadcasters, the radio applications referred to by the President, the development of different rights in 2013, the economic situation of the media services market, the development of its financial conditions, or the Council's specific annual activities, but also the development of external relations, the various areas of support, the media field programme, and a very thorough analysis of radio and television media content for 2013. Allow me to briefly highlight four topics on this substance, which have also been mentioned in the Committee on Culture. One of them was the sale of radio frequencies. As we have heard from Madam President, a very thorough work is being done when it is being built for successive years, because the 54 entitlements that were decided to sell radio frequencies were only partially issued in 2013. But what is very interesting and important is that 24 of these 54 sales, i.e. a very significant proportion of community radios, received the frequency, which I think, as an internal ratio, are very reassuring in terms of decisions. We have heard from Madam President here about the digital transition from the television area, as is stated in the material. It is important to highlight - and I would like to point out this as a Member and as a committee rapporteur - that this work can also be proud of the Media Council, because this is a very serious transition. Any country you're putting on a very serious task, this job has put it to work. And in Hungary, with the help of the Media Council and its leadership, we managed to do this very well. Obviously, we needed partners and broadcasters as partners, but most of all, we needed the Media Council's thoughtfulness and a helpful attitude when the work was primarily focused on the interests of viewers, audiences and the interests of the local community. As we have heard, for example, in the context of the digital transition of local televisions, more than HUF 300 million was very important, and so not only national taxes, but also locals could almost fully switch to digital broadcasting. The third area I would like to highlight is the proportion of Hungarian music that Madam President mentioned. Maybe it's worth a little more thinking about. The law currently provides for a 35 percent obligation for national commercial radios, and it is very right for locals to encourage the media authority to take up 35 percent for new applications, which is an advantage for local commercial radios. But as legislator, I would like to point out to all of us that, of course, such an incentive is good, but it would be best if, in this respect, when it comes to it, we could amend the law and put it on the table, and think that this 35 percent could rise to 50 percent in the first step of national commercial taxes, but in the second step, too, in the case of locals, because with this step we would serve Hungarian music and Hungarian music. The current example shows that, because many people respect it, they are happy to do so, perhaps such a cautious 15 percent step forward could certainly help. It's very good that this subject has come up now, obviously on occasion, when we change the law that we need to do so, this case might turn up. I hope we don't forget. I would also like to talk about the media field programme, which Madam President mentioned. This is also a very important pillar of the Hungarian film support system with its HUF 2.5 billion support system. In fact, there are three pillars of the system that have developed in recent years. The National Film Fund is one of the main pillars of feature film funding, support, and the other is the Ministry of Human Resources, where the various scientific and conference grants are included, the third, but not in order, but a very strong and decisively saving many genres, which is where the media field programme, the media authority, the Media Council, can practically receive support from filmmakers in the field of animation, educational or documentary film, small feature film and experimental film. It is therefore a great responsibility to operate this system. I am very pleased to see that a balanced tendering system is in place here and that a good, competent and responsible system of criticism is in place. I trust that this will continue in the coming years. This is very important for the Hungarian culture, for the Hungarian film. We also thank you for your work. Dear House, The committee discussed the proposal and presented a proposal for a resolution to this House. In this proposal for a decision, the Committee on Culture proposes to my fellow Members that we adopt a report on the activities of the media authority in 2013. I hope that this will be the case in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-156	Dear Parliament, I declare that the Government has already indicated at last week's House Committee meeting that it does not wish to participate in the debate on this proposal. It is therefore up to the Members to take part in these speeches. In the first round, the speech will be given by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Gábor Törő, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-02-157	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 11 October 2010, the Media Council, acting as an autonomous body of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, was established according to the decision of the Parliament. The Media Council, acting as the successor of the ORTT, is an independent legal entity under the supervision of the Parliament, thus having significant autonomy. Members of the Media Council are subject only to the law and cannot be ordered in their activities. The supervision of the media, compliance with the law and, in addition, the freedom of the press, place great responsibility on the Media Council. We can say that 2013 is a milestone in the history of television in Hungary, as the digital changeover also took place in Hungary. The period since the entry into force of the new media regulation will, inter alia, provide an opportunity to review and evaluate the activities of the competent bodies. We have the opportunity to step back for a moment and objectively examine where we stand and where we are going. I am convinced that Hungarian media regulation is basically in line with the standards typical of the EU Member States. The legislation currently in force and the authority applying it are capable of creating genuine freedom of the press and thus not restricting the framework of democratic publicity. Dear House, When we review the activities of the Media Council in 2013, we can see that our colleagues have done an extremely valuable and great job, which is presented in detail in the proposal for a study. The Media Council met 45 times in 2013, discussed 1522 proposals at the 45 meetings and took a total of 1793 decisions. Out of the 1522 proposals, 255 proposals were submitted by the Fund and 279 decisions were taken. The Media Council adopted a total of 31 draft calls for proposals and 35 calls for proposals in 2013. A total of 54 applications were closed by the Media Council in 2013, of which 45 were successful. The distribution of media services by nature is 17 commercial and 28 community. The deadline for digital transmission of terrestrial audiovisual media services is set by Dtv. 38. § (1) defines it. [[17.20]] paragraph 2 of this Article sets out the conditions for the application (17.20) According to this, the deadline for media services in the national area of reception is 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2017 for media services in the area of district and local reception. In 2013, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority developed a timetable for the switch-on of analogue taxes for national audiovisual media service providers. According to the national anti-dumping timetable for analogue taxes developed by the Authority, the switch-off took place at two paces. On first-stage taxes, the broadcasting of media services had to be eliminated by 31 July 2013 and the media services offered by the second phase by 31 October 2013. The authority withdrew this, so the Hungarian Television Nonprofit Zrt., RTL Klub Zrt. and MTM-SBS Zrt. - let's say that TV2's analogue terrestrial broadcasting ceased on 31 October 2013. Of the 38 local analogue televisions operating, 37 audiovisual media service providers made use of the digital switch option and gained access to digital terrestrial video. The Media Council amended the public contracts for the 37 media services concerned, in which it was recorded that the programme was distributed by digital terrestrial video transmission technology. At the end of 2013, as a result of the completion of ongoing tendering procedures, only one media service was operated under a 60-day temporary public contract. As in the previous year, the Media Council amended the public contracts of local and district terrestrial media service providers in a number of cases in 2013. As in recent years, most of the contract amendments affected the programme plan. In 2013, the Media Council reviewed and recorded the media service opportunities used by public media services. The main element of the review was that the Media Council decided that the frequencies of the national commercial radio network previously used by Neo FM from January 2, 2014 were the Hungarian Radio Nonprofit Zrt. Kossuth radio and the media services of Dankó Pista Radio can use it as specified in the decision. In connection with the hate speech, the Media Council concluded that, in addition to incitement to hatred, there was also a breach of the legal provision prohibiting the exclusion of communities. A letter was suitable not only for the community of persons involved in the crime or for a significant part of the Roma, but also for the formation of prejudice against all members of the minority, because it was not exclusively directed against the suspected perpetrators of the crime which was the subject of the article. It has not initiated proceedings for four additional official controls carried out on the basis of a citizen's application, since it found that the information contained in the civil application was not substantiated. In connection with Kata Bándy's murder, he analysed the media representation of the crime and found that the news processing of the murder and the investigation was not objectionable to any media service provider, all of which acted in accordance with professional standards and current media regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, On the subject of the protection of human dignity, the decision to present the murder of Bence Sita was outstanding. In connection with the death of the minor, Mokka TV2 revealed and presented details of the murder and organized a prize game in Mokka. We had to figure out by text what the motive for the murder was, and the voters had to draw gifts. The Media Council imposed a fine of HUF 23 million, including violations of the rules on the protection of minors and human dignity. In the explanatory statement, he stated that the creators of the program had ignored the feelings of the relatives with the sensationalist, disparaging and shocking game of prizes, and did so in a particularly profit-oriented piece of programme, i.e. they used the tragedy of a family for financial gain. In 2013, too, the media authority made a special check on compliance with the legal provisions on the protection of minors. In total, 24 cases were found by the Media Council to be infringement of the rules for the protection of children and minors. In seven cases, programmes are not recommended for people under 18 years of age, in ten cases they are not recommended for people under 16 years of age, in four cases they are not recommended for people under 12 years of age and in three cases they should not have been classified as recommended for people under 6 years of age. A total fine of HUF 16 million was imposed by the Media Council for cases of violation of the protection of minors. On the same subject, the media authority took 66 decisions in 2011, 49 decisions in 2012 and 29 decisions in 2013. Compared to data from previous years, the 2013 figures show a constant decline in the number of infringements related to content that violates minors. I consider the protection of minors to be one of the main tasks of the Media Council. 29 applications for balanced information were submitted to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, of which 24 were submitted by Jobbik. Four of these were completely and four were partially rejected, and the rest were essentially rejected. In 2013 there were positive trends in the accessibility practices of media service providers as regards compliance with the legal requirements for programmes accessible to people with hearing disabilities. The number of programme hours with subtitles increased much more than required by the law, as well as a number of cultural, entertainment, religious and children's programmes. It can be noticed that televisions have paid particular attention to the accessibility of news programmes and programmes for disabled people, and have tried to make popular programmes more accessible to hearing-damaged viewers. The public service media provided a rich genre offer, and all channels made their programmes available in hours higher than those laid down by law. In preparing the 2013 support plan, the Media Council took particular account of the proposals made by the jury and the Fund's support area, the needs of media service providers and the film industry, the comments made in each professional forum and the professional position of the Commissioner for the Government of Film. The 2013 aid plan essentially aimed at supporting the operating costs of media service providers, the production of their programmes and independent Hungarian film works. With regard to the award of the two national commercial TVs, RTL Klub and TV2 from 1 November 2013, the 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. it carries out its media service activities on the basis of statutory registration, as the analogue country has ceased to be eligible as soon as the digital changeover took place. On the basis of the Media Act, it is not the Media Council but the Office of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority that has jurisdiction to register these media service providers. The media service fee is established by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority under the law. The Media Council adopted a total of 31 draft calls for proposals and 35 calls for proposals in 2013. The Media Council closed 54 tendering procedures in 2013, of which 45 were successful, where a winner was announced. [[17 .30]] The Media Council established Mttv in 14 decisions in 2013. 33. § 4 violation of the rule. All decisions were taken against national audiovisual media service providers. The Media Council measures and monitors every month the three-day programmes of RTL Klub, TV2, Duna Television, M1 and M2 media services with a software developed in Hungary. In 2013, the Media Council established the first penalty guarantee against Magyar TV in the amount of HUF 50,000 per infringement, which was increased to HUF 80,000 by the end of the year, from HUF 20,000 to HUF 55,000 in the case of TV2. A small fine between HUF 10 thousand and HUF 100 thousand, which is a total of 66 decisions, is typically applied to local media service providers in the Community. Larger fines, amounting to HUF 100,000 and HUF 1 million - in total 35 decisions - were typically imposed against district or national media providers. A fine of over HUF 1 million was imposed in 7 decisions of the Media Council, of which TV2 received four, RTL Club 2 and Film Mania one. The highest fine was set against TV2 in connection with the presentation of the child murder in Kaposvár, amounting to HUF 23 million. The accessibility practices of media service providers showed positive trends in 2013. The number of programme hours with subtitles increased much more than required by the law, as well as a number of cultural, entertainment, religious and children's programmes. Based on the Authority's test results, in 2013, media service providers provided 56,6 percent of the programme time with subtitles or sign-toldás help. On the basis of my summary of the above, it can be concluded that the operation of the Media Council has fulfilled its expectations. During their work, the activities of various media in Hungary were properly investigated and regulated. These work is also becoming more effective year after year in view of the fact that the parties concerned have the highest degree of compliance. Of course, their results should continue to be improved, although this can be achieved primarily by better communication across the broad public and the political spectrum. I, too, propose to this House the adoption of this report. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-02-158	I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-12-02-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the presentation by Madam President. Most of the speakers before me have, in fact, repeated what Madam President has said. I do not think that the problem with this report is what is in it, it is a 250-page, color-scented publication, I think it is a well-structured publication. The problem is that there is no problem, because there is nothing in it that the public is really interested in the media and media in Hungary today, but I will come back to them a little later. I would first like to add one or two figures to what Madam President has said. We have heard how glad it is to hear how quickly televisions of local interest switched, 37 out of 38 switched to the digital platform, and this could have consumed up to 300 million forints. I would like to mention two things here. Not so long ago, we conducted the debate on the NMHH budget here, and the NMHH has a huge reserve, we can put it on a sum of 5 and 6 billion forints. We have asked several times, along with my fellow opposition Members, what the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is saving this huge amount of money for. We were given very vague explanations in the debate. It was the only thing that was heard and seen from behind the fog twice, which was blown here by the pro-government representatives, i.e. that the digital transition was financed from it. If only 300 million forints of this were available to the locals, I think it would have been a lot more than just one forint - this is one for me. Secondly, I am pleased if Madam President and my fellow members of the Government believe that this is a beautiful colorful palette, especially with media of local interest, especially those that, let me say, are not in the hands of the governing parties and cannot be controlled by hand. This palette has been fading a lot since 2010. In 2010, there were 80 local televisions, today, as they said, there are only 38, less than half, and only 37 of them switched to the digital platform. And with regard to radios of local interest, I cannot share your enthusiasm for how important they are, how well they work and how much you support them. It is 7 local radios that have been silent in the last year, which has also been revealed in the last year's professional report by NMHH. Esztergom, Tatabánya, Dunaújváros, Kaposvár, Székesfehérvár, Veszprém, Sárbód, just to avoid talking in the air, this is where the radios of local interest were silent. And I asked the questions in vain. [[Zoltán Tessely intervenes.]] that when the new frequency competitions can be launched, we could not... Press the button, my fellow Member, and we'll have an argument. [[Zoltán Tessely: Good.]] ; that is, when you will be able to put new applications on the frequencies. I believe that what has been left out of this current report, which outlines a kind of reality for us, of course, only if we do not open it all up, this remains such a distorted, slightly parallel reality with what we know and the broad public is now having a rather serious transformation of the market, where taxes, regulation, the creation of new channels and the pooling of old ones. Some things we agree on, of course. If TV2 is doing something that was done with the Szita Bence murder, it's going to have to act sharp and hard. Even if there is news created by the state in the public media of taxpayers' money, there is news that later it turns out that the person who gave the statement is not called as it was written, it turns out that it is a reporter of another TV company or even a cameraman, and in an uproar he is actually performing a play, which would not be a problem, but it is broadcast on the news as objective news. Balance has been discussed, without numbers. Here are the figures: balance in public media and psychics today seems to be about 70 percent of media coverage on the government side. This year, over 70% in the last four months. Then they even measured 80 percent because of the ruling parties. I believe that we cannot go past this fact without a municipal election in this period. This was a campaign-type balancing of objective information; a great deal from the government side and a great deal from the opposition side. By the way, the Class FM radio is at the forefront, where the steering side received no less than 88 percent in terms of balance. Only to compare this: otherwise, his competitor - it is difficult to stay on the podium - is Echo TV, where the governing parties received 67.7 percent. Obviously, not everyone has the same opportunity to express their own opinion and to tell them how they see things. I believe that this is likely to be suitable - especially if more than 40 televisions with local interests cease to exist - so that political influence can be acquired and, of course, the political argument system can be planted as deeply as possible. [[17.40]] But how the market is still changing? We have a advertising law here, which now serves little secretly to force RTL Klub out of the Hungarian market. TV2 is now in the moonyard of pro-government interest circles, the RTL Club has so far resisted this, and now it seems that with the level of advertising tax, with its aim, they are trying to crowd out this kind of market share. If this does not succeed, then a proposal has been made - to talk a little about the future - now, there is a proposal from the Tuzson Bencé's pen, so that in the basic package, which distributes the eight free frequencies, there are also two new public service channels starting next year. Which, of course, hasn't been the case so far, but they're unusually insisting on having these channels in the right order. This means that M1, M2, M3, the two new ones are Duna TV and Duna TV are World versions, and then the basic package is almost ready. The person who can only look at the basic package, please, will be able to narrow down the information highway to him in the spirit of balancedness and the acquisition of the broadest possible knowledge on which he can navigate. I believe that the Media Council should raise its voice at a time like this. At this time, I think that it is possible to call on the principles that Madam President has said on the pulpit, and I think she has said it correctly. You can call for help if you want to judge these cases, and the Media Council could say that this is not okay. There is a state monopoly here, a state monopoly where there is no balance, partiality, sometimes even when the Media Council does not raise its voice, when the other media are simply stabbed because they do not report the success of the government in sufficient lengths, then I think they can do quite a lot. I know it's 2013, which is why I started the chapter at the beginning of my sentence to talk a little bit about the future, just to reflect. By the way, if we talk a little more about the future, then I will start from the past, and it was last year, and it was already the same, in the advertising market, where the biggest player is the Hungarian state, of course, that everyone knew where to advertise: where the large Hungarian state companies advertise. It doesn't matter what market share and how the medium in which these advertisements appear doesn't matter. At least this will be centralized to start from the past and arrive in the present: a central communication office will be created, and the Prime Minister's Office will be the one to decide on the distribution of these funds. These are serious billions, which are about transforming the market, because we always see a process, we come from the past to the present, and it sets out a path for us to the future. I think that if we try to interpret the principles that Madam President has rightly said so hard, then we will, unfortunately, get to where we are now, that public service is really just a label without any content. That's when we get to the point where we can get reports where there's no report, but the cameraman of one of the other TV companies is the one who's outraged at one of the measures or is outraged at anything else, just those who are not benefiting the government right now. And this kind of distorted adaptation, and this kind of distorted worldview, which lacks one side of what they have put before us, creates such a coercion. It's not the people who make these things. It's got that too. The problem is, they're doing it under a compliance obligation, and they're doing it on a show, editors, and they're doing it under a compliance obligation, because otherwise they feel like they're gonna get hurt. Even if you say there won't be, but they feel that they may be in trouble, and that we are getting distorted news, and that is why we are here today to listen to the report of the Media Council, without consequences, Madam President. There were no consequences. They can do very well in certain cases, in which I agree, of course, that such TV companies should be fined, only then do I think that there should be no double standards. If anything else happens, please take a strong and upright stand there, based on the same vocal principles. I propose an overview of the current restructuring of the market, the acquisition of that kind of monopoly, the expulsion of commercial media from the market, the market, the social consequences and other consequences. I'm not saying that they're all harmful, but there's no way to say that they're all saved from these consequences. I believe that when the Media Council plans and monitors such a real estate portfolio, that is your job. It is not your job to conceal that public service media are the mouthpieces of the government, it is not your job to present to us a report in which we write only the good and the good things, but it is your job to express, impartially, the criticisms and comments of each party which, I believe, are correct. One half of this has been cancelled, one half of which has been cancelled, and I believe that I see the process as it is, that if we look into the future, it will continue to fail in the future. Therefore, we must say that you have now preserved the kind of democracy that the office reports. By the way, last time we proposed an amendment, either at the State Audit Office or at the National Media Authority, to comply with its obligation to report to Parliament. Technically, it's all right, it's on time, and the appropriate committees have discussed it. As a matter of fact, I think that one part of it is missing and brings us a distorted parallel world, so I think that we should do not only formally and in substance comply with that law entrusted to you, and I think that everyone should rightly expect impartiality and judgment, and that the council should do so, and then everyone is much more willing to participate and participate in this debate. Don't reduce the number of local psychics, make it 80 again, make it 100; support them better! Now, together with last year, there are 11 billion HUF in NMHH. Stand by them, let them be bigger, let them develop, let the local population be better informed. What I understand is that it's not in the government's interest, because they like to be one-channeled in a lot of things. It's not in your interest. It is in your interest to be impartial, to have balanced information. If this cannot be created at national level, then let's create it at local level! It is also in your interest, and I believe that it is also in the interests of the principles that you have said very nicely here. This is so round that if we refer to it, then we apply them. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-02-160	Ladies and gentlemen, KDNP has indicated that it does not wish to comment on the debate; therefore, I am giving the floor to Mr Elek Novák, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-02-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It seems that I will be the only Member who will actually comment on the report before us in principle, because it is clear that the speakers before me did not read this report, and did not even bother to talk about its content. KDNP does not even wish to comment, LMP is not present, the lead speaker of Fidesz quoted at least from his table of contents this 245-page proposal, but the MSZP also said that we should talk about what is not in it. Well, it's easier to bring old panels here, of course, what's wrong with us in general about the operation of the media, but we, the good guys, took the trouble to talk about this once this report is on the agenda. I'm going to highlight some interesting, juicy points from this. However, in the front, I would like to express my objection that the representative of the government has once again remained absent. While there is a record number of State Secretarys in the Orbán government, it seems that no State Secretary is represented, let alone a minister in this debate. Demonstratively they wash their hands about the media, right, saying that this is an autonomous body, they are not responsible for anything that happens there, but we know very well that the blind can see that the public media broadcasts are clearly controlled by the government's people, their editing. I therefore find the legislative provision on the basis of which, for example, we cannot make an interpellation here in Parliament or a question to the government on this issue to be very bad. [[17.50]] They say it's an autonomous organ. But the president of the NMHH can't be interpelled here at the National Assembly as he may be, let's say, the Attorney General. So, in essence, we cannot put these serious issues on the table, which we can discuss only once again outside of television broadcasting time, otherwise we do not have the opportunity to do so. Unfortunately, we are facing a serious problem, perhaps the tip of the iceberg, that only the delegates of Fidesz were present in the Media Council, the most important media monitoring body. In his predecessorship, in the ORTT, every parliamentary party has had experience, it was also regulated by a two-thirds law, and Fidesz voted in favour of this during the Horn government back in the nineties, and until this latest Orbán government came, it was accepted until 2010 that every party had a seat and delegation in the most important media monitoring body. This is such a serious violation of the law - just to make them feel the parallel, who is following this debate at all - as if, let's say, in the most important body to monitor the cleanliness of elections, in the National Election Committee or even in the ballot counting committee, there would not be any other party to delegate, except Fidesz. This password is nice and soundy, but unfortunately, it was used with such tools and in such situations. But let's get to this 245 - page account. First, I would like to start with one of my matters of heart, because on page 173, we are talking about the criminal quota, its fulfilment. My colleague Sándor Pörzse and I proposed this in 2010 and it is one of the few proposals that we have accepted. Of course, not quite as we suggested, because we had several proposals on this, although they voted spectacularly in favour of the better proposal to have a criminal quota; perhaps because they were afraid that many would object to this and then point to Jobbik. They can point out to us, we undertake that it is not healthy for them to make tabloid news that is otherwise required by law. This is, in principle, officially implemented according to this report before us, but in fact, it is still not. The problem is the interpretation of the law, i.e. that the Media Council interpreted it too narrowly, and it is indeed the legislator's responsibility, because we wanted to make it clear that this includes clearly the accident news that has been filled with news ever since, and that is not included in the Media Council, although in many cases these are also criminal offences, or at least some kind of crime. However, you refused to do so. We had a number of other suggestions that political crime should not be included, as it is not some kind of tabloid program, but a serious newscast. So you shouldn't count on 20% if you're reporting a political crime, but there's plenty of room for that in the last 24 years' political set. It would have been nice if the issue of Gypsy crime hadn't been included, but we didn't really have to talk about it separately, because the news didn't really cover it, just by chance, if, as you can see, there were some interesting examples. So the accident news isn't part of it, which is why the media could sink to the level to which it has unfortunately sunk. Special thanks to the Last Days of ACTS website, which is an excellent view of the death of contemporary mainstream newscasting information, and indeed the public service media also seem to have had to participate in this competition. Another quota: Unfortunately, the proportion of the Hungarian music quota still in 35 radio stations does not reach 35 percent of the statutory requirement, which was also raised to this level at the pressure of Jobbik, although we suggested even higher. It was voted off, but an intermediate, compromise 35 percent finally agreed on the law. What is particularly problematic is that even on public radio Petőfi the Hungarian music quota is not fulfilled. We could say that it operates in violation of the law, although it is perhaps the most important task of ensuring musical diversity, and this is not fulfilled with the Hungarian musical quota. In addition, a good part of the radios achieves the right ratio with Hungarian music played between midnight and 5:00 a.m. in the dead time band. And finally, the news quota across the border that didn't happen. So there is no such thing, but we suggested this, and at first we got a promise, and it was swept off. Again, this report proves that this is necessary. At all, how we could talk about this is also due to the fact that I protested several times before about why such a statement was not included in the report. Finally, I thank the NMHH for adopting this proposal, and it has been promised and indeed implemented, and we are now seeing this statement every year for a few years now. However, the 5-percent threshold proposed by us is far from providing information on matters affecting the Hungarian community across the border. The share of news in Romania has fallen to 2.7 percent, and so-called Slovakia is only 0.9 percent. In addition, this includes the so-called real Slovak news, which is not related to Hungarians across the border, so to the Hungarians from abroad. A five-percent piece of news would be practically a brief piece of news, though, in a newscast that could be a sports report and a lot of other things. This way, it looks like there's no susceptibility, unfortunately. Then the biggest problem that concerns the operation of the media, where there are the most comprehensive violations, is the lack of balanced information. This is indeed one of the biggest media violations in Hungary. I say this not only because we are actually affected by the greatest exclusion, but also because this kind of democracy in Hungary cannot function if this statutory principle, balanced information, is not fulfilled. In this regard, I often protested why, for example, the Media Council would not act on its own initiative while it was supposed to do so. My objection was not entirely without results, or rather without consequences. It was without result, but it was not without consequence, because the law was amended due to my numerous protests, and the obligation to process the Media Council of its own motion was removed, so I can no longer object to the violation of the Media Council because it does not act on its own initiative in matters of balance. Now it is no longer a task, and I protested until the consequences were met. During the previous term, I was chair of the monitoring subcommittee of the Committee on Culture and Press until a series of protests had been held, and the government side was satisfied, and I was removed from this post. So if you protest a lot, let us not say that it is without consequences, since, let us say, you are being replaced from your office as chairman of the Commission, or you are changing the law so that I will not be able to refer to it next time. Now, indeed, the Media Council does not have to act on its own initiative, of course, to analyse it, of course, to say how gross violations there are, but not to act on its own initiative; not of its own motion, but of its own motion. 34 requests for balance were received by the Authority in 2013, according to the report before us, 29 of which were submitted by Jobbik. This statistics describe the silence on Jobbik. Typically, the majority came against the two major commercial channels. Of course, there could have been other complaints, but who has the capacity to do so in relation to serial, mass violations, everyday, every-hour violations? Let's look at the numbers, and it's important because there are sometimes such cheap statistics that appear, a week's statements and similar. Let's watch an entire year, so they don't tell us we're gonna take someone out and look at the statistics of the Media Council of only fidesz members. The one-sided pro-government media dump is characterized by 76 percent of politicians' speaking time on news shows being pro-government. There's a lot of mention here of two-thirds, but in fact, you've never received two-thirds of the social authority. They were also below 53 percent in the previous cycle, and now they have achieved an election result of less than 50 percent. The other issue is that, thanks to the electoral system, you may still be present in Parliament by two thirds, but you have never actually received two-thirds, certainly not a 76 percent majority, as you may have speaking time. The detailed analysis shows that the proportion of right-hand voices is only 4.3 percent. If we consider all political manifestations to be one hundred percent, so not all the news, sports news and so forth in general, but 4.3 percent of the political manifestations are just the better, so in fact we are treated as a party outside Parliament. This is one-third of the MSZP speeches with us which, in any case, reach head-to-head results, which is 12.5 percent against our 4.3 percent, and less than the small parties, since our 4.3 percent is just over 4.2 percent of the Együtt-PM, over 3.8 percent of DK or over 2.9 percent of the LMP. It is 2013, isn't it, when, in fact, the Együtt-PM cannot be regarded as a parliamentary party in any case, and yet, on the same level, there is a tenth difference in media manifestation at the same level. We can say that it is harshly against the law, because although the requirement for multifaceted information has been removed, balanced as a rule, as an indicator, remains, and we can see how much this is fulfilled or rather not. [[18.00]] There is even more disproportionateness in magazine shows, although there is a lot more good performances here, 4.5 percent, but DK is already beating us by 5.7 percent, so DK is actually getting a lot more media appearance than Jobbik. The Együtt-PM is 7.9 percent, so it is almost twice the size of Jobbik and what Jobbik would have received - much more than we should have been - and the MSZP is even stronger here, 19.4 percent. In fact, the MSZP received more in 2013 than was the case on the basis of the election result. In the speaking time of the magazine shows, Jobbik is still a little bit better, 5.2 percent, we have reached the parliamentary threshold, but it is still harshly illegal, and the media is again the most violently illegal against Jobbik. Here the Együtt-PM is 8.5 percent, the MSZP 22.5 percent, so it is amazing that these parties can prevent Jobbik at this level; and I say this not as a representative of Jobbik, but as a representative who is susceptible to justice and should be spoken against injustice, and the greatest injustices, according to the statements of the Media Council of only fidesz members, also concern Jobbik. I can tell you the right thing. If anything can be praised in this report and in this regard, it is the work of the Institute of Media Sciences; it organises high-quality events and has published excellent professional books. It is interesting to me, and it is a good feature of the rubber law of the media law, that, at the same time, the Media Council has acquitted the public TV on a soccer broadcast, in the case of a declaration that seems to be really offensive to the Negroes - it is obviously a rubber law, a public law - the justification was that the term "Africa" refers to a group that is not narrow enough, well-defined, so that the negative statements related to it, which should not be read here, cannot be interpreted as negative for each individual. Well, I beg you, on the basis of that interpretation of law, how can any other such broad term be offensive? From what we can't see, Jewish and gypsy advocacy organizations make a living out of it, actually. Where do we hear this media council argument that the general perception cannot be viewed as negative by individual individuals? 'Cause that's what we saw in the case of public television. It is a very serious problem that the media law consists of such rubber paragraphs, as this often leads to self-censorship, so that in 2010, for example, when it showed the header of Hír TV, for example, Kuruc.info, in a newscast about the Internet censorship, it had to risk the heading "Gypsy Crime" and they added that this should be done because the new media law essentially prohibits this and does not want to impose a fine on their heads. You can imagine if a fidesz television, a News Television, dare not show the word Gypsy Crime - I do not say that it is general, and let us say that they never dared, but there was an editor who did not dare to do this, who shook his hand and risked that word, and even justified his cowardice - what should mediums with such serious fidesz connections do? It is also an interesting analysis of the media representation of the Bándy murder. Sadly, it is typical that the authorities here also went after how the unsub's ethnicity would negatively affect the judgment of the gypsies. Do I have a few more minutes, Mr. President? I think it's the lead speaker's schedule for 20 minutes; it's not clearly indicated by the display. Then I'd like to continue...
u2014-12-02-162	Excuse me, Congressman, 30 minutes on the speaker's schedule.
u2014-12-02-163	30 minutes, then, especially. Thank you very much. Well, I'll keep going, because it was a really juicy case, which some of you have already said. According to the long analysis, first in mainstream media, though indirectly, the RTL Club reported that László Friday was a Gypsy. However, its conclusion is a beautiful view of the madness of political correctness, let me quote this:. At the same time, from the facebook images of the suspect and the materials showing his living environment, his family and his circle of acquaintance, the media consumer had a good chance to conclude that he was a Roma. All of this could have been avoided by news programme makers only if the latter had not been presented at all, which is virtually impossible in practice, since editorials have to serve in addition to the slick news with colourful additions to the audience's interest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, this argument is actually correct, indeed, and indeed, I think that we would need racist criminal statistics - as is the case in America - then we could see a clear picture of, for example, Gypsy crime, and obviously we would also be able to come up with solutions if we could first see clearly the statistics that, by the way, we should not look for, let us say, in this regard, but also in the ministry, of course. The firmness and severity of the text game on the Sita murder are both joyful and surprising; it is no wonder that the governing parties here are happy to refer to it. This TV2 outrage was perhaps the most disgusting thing in the decade and a half history of commercial television. Such firm authority practice would also be needed in general, but it will not be, nor was it. After all, I said in the debate on the 2013 NMHH discharge that it was unacceptable that a fine of HUF 245 million was originally planned, and that this was modified to 153 million - a year-long fine across the media - and finally the fine forecast modified from HUF 245 to HUF 153 million was agreed at HUF 57 million. This is what the Media Council has managed to impose, which is the clearest sign of government softness; in fact, by 2015 and next year, only HUF 21 million of fines were planned, so from 245 million to HUF 21 million in fact, less than one tenth in two years. So that's how they start, obviously, not without violations, but without fines. It is no coincidence that, unfortunately, in this report this year, there are no separate statistics on the violations committed by certain media service providers - I hope that next year, as a result of this criticism at least - although brutal numbers have come out earlier on what we have seen in particular for the two big TVs. They were extremely sad. Otherwise, it would also be appropriate to turn fines into revenue-related - this is obviously a legislative issue for the future - either because of these experiences, but unfortunately, I cannot go along with this now, because then I would deviate from the agenda and unfortunately such better proposals cannot be put on the agenda in Parliament. The advertising volume is supposed to be regulated. In September 2013, the Media Council spokesperson's office indicated that the Media Council did not for the first time impose a fine on national channels for advertising broadcasts louder than the programme, but, for example, the RTL Klubra imposed a fine of HUF 80,000. Seriously, don't make us laugh. Even though they are not ashamed to write it down - the Media Council's spokespersons' office has no good sense of communication, it could not hide it here - it was even written in a statement that it was not the first time a fine was imposed on national channels. And then 80,000 forints for a RTL Club? In the first place, I believe that the Media Council should strive to set penalties for violations which at least cover the total costs of detection and administration of infringements - which could also be justified for the entire administration - and that the Media Council does not spend little money in principle on the persecution of this truly irritating phenomenon. Unfortunately, I couldn't find - and I'm asking you - the cost of this, if you can estimate it this way, at least the actual expenses. The amount of money NMHH spends on this purpose on an annual basis, well, let's say a few million forints, as it also maintains a separate subpage on the website, and even studies have been carried out in this case according to the information on nmhh.hu. When I protested against this and called upon the Media Council's official representative, he said at the meeting of the Cultural and Press Committee in autumn 2013 that, when punishing too loud advertisements, the panel would follow the principle of gradualness, so that, who has been sanctioned several times, he could expect an increasing amount of punishment. That is what they say, and compared to that, we can see such a fine of 80,000 forints. What's bigger is that you can't tell me that you're using any software to measure this, that you've actually been able to eliminate the extremely excessive advertising volume after all these years. We can hear with reason and with our own ears that, in fact, advertisements are extremely different from the surrounding shows, with a very strong voice, and, in fact, who has a small child, and, let's say, he is asleep when there is a television show, he knows very well that in the case of advertising, you have to jump for the switch to lower the volume if you don't want the child to wake up. [[18.10]] But this is just a personal example, but in general - and I think we should not overdo it - how irritatingly illegal advertising is. I am very sorry that the Media Council has left this with no consequences. As closing again reminds you of the biggest problem, the most comprehensive violation: the harsh banning of the legal requirement for balanced information. I am very sorry that the Media Council does not have to act on its own initiative as a result of a legislative amendment to the Government, but at least it does not say so. Why we only have to take it out of a 245-page report between the lines how grossly illegal - from news TV to ATV anyway - the whole Hungarian television and radio media, and why it does not say this in a serious statement; whether it is the spokesperson's office, I think it could be more often about not only the advertising volume, but also about the failure to comply with the legal requirements for balanced information. Or even here, I would look forward to the President's oral initiative to act ex officio - in case you would already do what your predecessor refused - to punish this gross violation of the law of your own motion, because this parliamentary democracy cannot work if it is not possible to obtain fair information only on the Internet. What this requirement does not apply - it should not necessarily regulate all blogs - is that diversity is achieved on the Internet itself, but when, let's say, the Media Council shares media service rights, so to speak, it evaluates frequency contests, as the common language usually says, while obviously, let's say, for the maintenance of a television or radio, there is a huge financial need, I think, otherwise, this legal requirement is justified. So I hope that the result of this objection will not be that even this remaining, constantly reduced regulation, will be completely abolished; perhaps not because it would be enough even for the European Union. What Jobbik says here never matters, but if even the same - as was the case - concrete criticism was later formulated by the European Union, it was immediately passed through the Hungarian legal system. Because what Jobbik, representing one million Hungarians, wants does not matter - yes, Mr Secretary of State - but what the European Union wants was important to you. So I would very much like for you to sit in your seat as Secretary of State, and not only as a Member, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, but also as State Secretary, to answer whether you wish to make an amendment in this area, as well as to take a number of other initiatives - but since we already have a report from the Media Council - that at present only the delegates of Fidesz were present in the Media Council; I think this is untenable. As in his predecessor, ORTT, every party could have a place and a say in daily affairs, and not only in late 2014, we can discuss the 2013 report that is no longer of interest to many. So I think it would be fair for the most important media monitoring body to have more than the Fidesz delegates, because you have interpreted this at such a level, fundamentalistically, that even the KDNP delegate was expelled, even though KDNP had a proposal for the Media Council. The other question is why they freely contributed to the two thirds with their votes, and why they did not make their voices heard, so that at least they could have a seat. Unfortunately, only members of the Fidesz have been included, and I think this is unacceptable, and I very much hope that sooner or later they will realize that this is simply not fair in a democracy that has been mentioned a lot. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-164	Ladies and gentlemen, As LMP's faction is not present, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I now give the floor to Szabolcs Szabó, the first independent representative to apply within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-02-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, As the President has in fact summarized the content of what she has said to the committee, I would do the same in a brief and concise manner. All I would add is that if someone was watching the debate, then listening to the pro-government representatives and the president, it might seem as if everything was okay here on the media market, while we had to see that we had managed to distort the media market significantly in recent years and make the public media unwatchable. To tell you the truth, the last time I saw production reports and forgery in Bokor-Hana's Co-Couple Squadron was true in 2013 too. Plus, I'm not the one telling you that news is being forged, it's the court, but that's another question. Returning to the 2013 report, as President Novák said, after all, we are back to the 2013 report, which is a very interesting reading, as is the operation of the Media Council itself. For example, what was the operation of the 2013 Media Council known for? For example, that they were constantly interfering with the normal functioning of the Clubradio. Of course, they referred to legal remedies, but anyone who paid any attention knew that this was a witch hunt. I, for example, wanted to find out how much public money was spent on this case at the committee meeting, whether it was possible to hold someone responsible for the length of the case, because Klubradio, for example, suffered a significant loss, but it was dismissed on the grounds of appeal. Overall, it took 42 months after the decision of ORTT until the contract was concluded. Of course, in relation to radio - speaking of which - it was not just the frequency of Clubradio; it is because of how rural community radios have been blocked, while religious and religious channels have gained more ground, which have built a whole network. Not to mention that Neo FM's lost frequency was subsequently used to broadcast Dankó and Kossuth radio; they also improved the market opportunities of Class FM, which is known to be in whose interest it belongs. This is what a media analyst has said in general - what has happened here in recent years and in 2013 too - that in a normal country we should be glad that public radios are gaining ground, but unfortunately Hungary is not a normal country, and there is nothing else happening than the expansion of media with a right-wing interest. In addition, the frequency charges were subsequently reduced, so the State was in fact affected by a loss of revenue. It is a subtlety in the report - and this concerns less the President than the pro-government representatives - that the Norwegian Civil Fund is also included in this report. Here we have heard enough from some members of the government in the last month or two that, in fact, from the Norwegian Fund, there is some kind of anti-country organisation happening here, and the public goods are being squandered, and in the report, if you turn to it, you can read that, for example, the Media Council is receiving support. I also asked him at the committee meeting, and they told me that there was a media regulation conference, and they think it's totally okay, and I can totally accept that answer myself. Accordingly, the Media Council is not a squandering public money if we look at this part of the report, and it was not obviously organised against the country at this conference. So it would probably have to be a little more subtle when the government is clearly attacking NGOs from the Norwegian Fund, for example. Finally, on the report, I kept thinking about one thing, namely, the need to ensure balance, which my colleague Novak referred to quite a long time ago. According to the legislation of the information criteria for media services, ensuring balance is a priority. As regards news programmes, this issue is discussed separately in the report. As a sometimes-watching and listening citizen, I asked myself how this applies in the public media. The question is poetic, of course, and I referred to it in the introduction. This is only painful because we are spending 70-80 billion on this, for example, so that information is balanced at some level in the public media, but this is not very real, and the Media Council is not really able to force it out or require it from public media, for example. Of course, we're a country without consequences, so we're not surprised. The report also mentions - by the way, if we are talking about balanced information - that statistics are produced on the basis of the number and length of appearances, regardless of the content. So, for example, these proportions, which my fellow Member Novak has spoken of for a long time, are based on the number of appearances, while it would obviously be much more interesting if we also looked at the content somehow. [[18.20]] Of course, this is basically a methodological issue, and I'm interested in it as a social researcher, but it would probably be worth launching some kind of basic research or applied research about it if they already have their own research facility to do it better. Overall, it can be said on the basis of the report that the Media Council - or the Moor - has done its duty, but unfortunately it will not go, it will remain here, it is still concrete, it will continue to distort the media market, and they will continue to produce an unwatchable public media with their help. Accordingly, we will not accept this report on behalf of the Joint, as appropriate. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-02-166	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone wants to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see any intention of commenting, so the general debate is closed. It is now possible to present the closing words of the two proposals. I will ask Mrs Zsuzsanna Karas Monika, President of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, whether she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Monika Monika Zsuzsanna Karas: Yes, briefly.]] Yeah, well, then it's up to you. [[Dr. Karas Monika Zsuzsanna goes up to the pulpit.]]
u2014-12-02-167	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to reflect very, very briefly on the issues raised. Congressman Cook asked the rhetorical question as to when the Media Council would raise its voice on certain matters. I have to say that, where the announcement is received, the Media Council raises its word, initiates and conducts the procedure, for example, in connection with the statement of opinion in the M1 News, mentioned as an example, the procedure is pending before the Media Council. The congressman mentioned a double standard. I can say for sure that where the procedure is initiated, the Media Council will judge it in accordance with the same principles, no matter what the subject matter, so no double standards are applied by the Media Council. Mr Cook also mentioned that there were very few local media service providers. I have to reassure you that media service providers have not disappeared, 37 out of 38 terrestrial local analogue television applications have been submitted to the competition called DIGI 2013, which the Media Council has allocated 312 million forints. In some cases, 8 million forints could be won, this is the cost of the digital changeover, we believe, and we know that it is covered almost entirely by the media service provider. The number of analogue taxes is decreasing year after year, but these media do not disappear, but have switched to cable platforms. Those who do not have contracts, but are registered by the Office of the NMHH - not by the Media Council - have a number of approximately 450, so 450, so you have to look here for media service providers who have voluntarily come down from the surface of the earth. Most of the time, their decision was motivated by access to much more subscribers and more efficiently on cable. Mr Novak mentioned the reduction in fines and missed the fine-taking and sanctioning activities of the Media Council. Yes, I must say that this is a decision, and the Media Council does not want to take on the image of law enforcement and not the image of the sanctioning authority, but to encourage media service providers to cooperate, which, by the way, is considered to be an absolute success, as the law is increasingly being followed by media service providers. Yeah, there's a step in the fine. The first step in encouraging cooperation is to apply the legal consequences of the call to a media service provider when it comes to the first slip-up, so to speak. Otherwise, it's the law that creates it. So, as I have repeatedly pointed out, the Media Council is not a legislator, but a law enforcement body, so after the call, the level of the fine increases for repeated infringements. I can tell Mr Szabó that what András Koltay Media Council member has already said in the committee that the Treaty on the Norwegian Fund is indeed included in the report of the Media Council, but the Norwegian Fund has not paid the Media Council a single penny, and the Media Council has organised that conference in its own funding. That's pretty much all I wrote down, and I wanted to reflect on them. I thank you for all the comments and questions that have been made during the debate, and it is always useful for us, because both positive and less positive contributions are a kind of feedback on our work and important guidance on our common goals. I therefore urge this House once again to accept the report of the Media Council. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-02-168	I now give the floor to Mr János Halász, rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, to reflect on the debate.
u2014-12-02-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I have listened with calmness and patience to the opinions of my fellow Members, and I respect their opinions, but I do not share either of their views from the opposition benches. We also held a debate at the committee meeting in a similar structure, at the end of which the committee presented the proposal on which we are discussing here, which we are proposing that we adopt this report. We also did so and voted in favour of our proposal, because there, in the Commission debate, Madam President also answered the questions raised, after completing the report, with understanding and thorough answers to the questions raised. The same thing happened here in the House. It was a little longer, perhaps even more thorough, even for Members who were not members of the committee, they had the opportunity to comment. I feel that Madam President has already answered the questions, the concerns raised by my fellow Members. In my opinion, these have been satisfactory, reassuring answers, and I can continue to say what I can say at the beginning of the debate, that I call on this House to adopt the proposal, the report. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-02-170	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the debate on the items on the agenda and to the speeches on the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to Mr President Novák, who calls for a family-friendly parliamentary function with the title Jobbik.
u2014-12-02-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, It's the one or two who's still here. For the sake of the record, please note that no one from MSZP, LMP, KDNP, in the benches of Fidesz is still sitting. [[Dr. László Kács will report and return to his seat.]] I'm glad that he is waiting for my speech, but he may be leaving at the end, even though we really want to encourage family-friendly parliamentary operations. At last week's meeting of the House Committee of Parliament, as President of the Parliament's Population Policy Sub-Committee, I also initiated such a family-friendly operation on behalf of Jobbik, especially instead of extending the night of the plenary debates, the introduction of Thursday and Friday's sittings and the generalization of them, as with the termination of the political vacancy in October this year, I think it is finally expected that Members can attend their work in the second half of the week. László Kövér, in his reply to the House Committee, passed on the responsibility of the future decision to Fidesz - we will see how they will react to this - although I also think that Mr Speaker obviously has a serious responsibility in this, and especially for what proposal, what days he intends to convene the meeting. In the case of Parliament, it is obvious, unquestioned, the most important thing is to make family-friendly decisions, but it is also a symbolic question, which concerns many employees, whether, in the operation of the main representative body of the people, the family, especially those children who are regularly forced to spare their parents because of a government approach that János Lázár is no longer ashamed to say that the Prime Minister's Office is unfortunately not a family-friendly workplace. Such messages, I quote, are not mandatory for anyone to work at the Prime Minister's Office, are extremely damaging to the employees of other public administrations and thus also to the demographic catastrophe of our country. [[18.30]] Now that the Parliamentary Assembly has finally become a full-time job following Jobbik's demand since the municipal elections, it is expected that MEPs will come to work in the second half of the week. Night discussions are not only anti-family, but have also been empty because of the low number of people we have experienced here, for example in the previous debate. It's a little funny that we call the speeches by faction, which were followed by no single, not even a normal comment, let alone a two-minute or any debate. Well, what do you mean, a keynote speech that's not followed by anything? ! What's it driving? ! Well, there hasn't actually been any debate. And why not? Because they make such late dates awkward for the government or even in this law factory any other debate that is not particularly important for them to broadcast on TV. Debates are placed on dates on which Members do not participate. They do not participate in these debates. In fact, the former, I think, at an extremely important item on the agenda, the LMP and KDNP did not even choose a lead speaker, nor did they comment on this question. The reason for this is obviously the lack of television broadcasts, because if it is not broadcast by TV, we find that there are no major substantive debates. For let us not be hypocritical, there is little chance of persuading each other, but rather, for television viewers, the purpose of making arguments is a speech in many cases. In the case of Thursday and Friday's daytime meetings, however, discussions would be followed by more people, whether on TV or via the Internet; while working at night, of course, we will do so. But evening meetings are anti-family, and instead of births, they lead to divorces. It is also a symbolic and practical problem that in the third largest parliament in the world, there is a hairdresser and a doctor's office, there is also a gym and a bank account in the House of Representatives, but there is no diaper room and a lactating room anywhere. Those should also be provided to visitors. Last week, a pro-government representative was not ashamed to ask for a cigarette break at a committee meeting, while the anti-family seating order has unfortunately not bothered Fidesz, which should now in principle formally establish its position after László Kövér passed the decision on them. I would be happy if the government could explain this right now, because it is given the opportunity to do so on this symbolic issue, is it not? After all, they have the opportunity to respond to my speech after the agenda, even to János Lázár or one of his State Secretarys, who was not ashamed to say that the Prime Minister's Office is unfortunately not a family-friendly workplace. However, we cannot accept this, we must protest against it, and we trust that we will force the government to change. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the benches of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-172	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar: Vámosszabadi and Győr still do not ask for the title of the refugee camp. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-02-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first time I've asked you to speak on this issue. As you know, you have opened a refugee camp in Vámosszabadi, a few kilometers from Győr, the county seat, which caused unexpected conflicts, caused a situation that the locals are very difficult to tolerate. And let's face it, it's not his, not the Győr and not the Customs Freeman's attitude to aliens, but the fact that these refugees couldn't fit in at all, they couldn't pick up our European standards at all, and they represented a style that we couldn't accept. Of course, Jobbik has spoken not only against the refugee camp in Customs Free, but against all similar institutions in the country. We believe that the problems that led to these people moving from different countries around the world and finally ending up here in Hungary must be dealt with locally, not here, for serious tax forints. In and around Győr, as in all other settlements, there have been crimes, and there have been public security problems, but far from as much as this camp has existed since then. I could say that the neighborhood was a quiet island. Many young couples moved out to Vámosszabi, because, as I said, it is a few kilometers away from Győr, and it assured the peace of life in the countryside that city jobs could be easily reached. The situation has become untenable. Although refugees are killing each other today, the last time they found a victim in the corn tablet, and the death of all people is, of course, an unnecessary tragedy, we are sorry; but let me, Hungarian MP, be allowed to worry more about the physical integrity of the citizens of Győr and Customs Free, and ask the government whether, after such a case, it does not think about what we have been demanding for years that the camp, once it is here, should be a closed camp. It also upsets the locals that refugees do not make their own savings, and it is certainly not just about food, which would otherwise have excellent qualities in the area, but Jobbik says that it would be expected that every cost that comes with their stay should indeed be produced by these people. This is not about people who have fallen, are not able to do the work, but are able to do the work, they are very powerful refugees. We also think that there is a serious risk here in the area of health, as Vámosszabadi can be an infection problem that has not been experienced before, and which Hungarian health care is not prepared for at all in our opinion. The press reports suggest that the government is even thinking about developing this camp. Jobbik, on the other hand, tabled an amendment to previous budgets and this year's budget support for the refugee camp in Customs Free. This also sends a message that we will continue to stand by the end of the camp. And as I said, if you, on such grounds, refuse to close this camp, at least immediately, so that similar tragedies do not happen. What happens every day on the streets of Győr is that single women, underage people are being harassed, marriage offers are being made on the street to passersby, and they speak in an unrated style to everyone who gets in their way. We do not want this condition to continue. Therefore, Jobbik strongly demands that the refugee camp in Customs Freeland be closed. And like I said, if they don't want to do that, they're gonna put the stay-at-home guys to work. We want Győr and his neighborhood to be a quiet island again. Let's not cause ourselves irreversible damage. That is what I wanted to say briefly, and I hope that the government will finally respond substantially to these points. Because the locals, the civilians, those who raised their voices against this camp, they don't listen, they don't give their opinions. I hope that it will be different now and that the government will finally take decisive action. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-02-174	Members of István Ikotity and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély have withdrawn their wish to speak, so we have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, and we will resume the meeting of the Parliament at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:38 p.m.]]
