u2021-04-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 15th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the leadership of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Sándor Szabó. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, General debates are now taking place. In view of the pandemic situation, I would like to ask that, if possible, only the next speaker and the two subsequent Members be present in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the amendment of certain laws concerning the management of assets and other provisions on the management of assets until closure in order to create a sustainable management of public assets. The government referral is T/15995. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national assets, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-29-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill on the amendment of certain laws concerning the management of assets and other provisions on asset management in order to create a sustainable management of public assets is to establish the necessary legislative rules for the establishment and strengthening of sound, targeted, efficient and cost-effective public asset management. As a result of the amendment, the Hungarian State owns the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. The scope and system of the management of state assets under the exercise of ownership rights will be reformed. By creating sustainable asset management, MNV's asset management tasks focus on strategic government asset management. Dear House, In addition to the statutory and fundamental statutory requirements for the preservation and enhancement of state-owned assets, it is necessary to set the objectives and to define the procedures for the organisation, separation and efficient and sustainable management of the State's wealth portfolio of assets that are already state-owned and newly owned. In most cases, the acquisition of assets by the State is the result of a deliberate, conscious decision. In this way, assets can be regarded as strategic assets, since the public interest justifies their acquisition of ownership in order to achieve sectoral strategic objectives, public investment or to carry out specific public tasks. The title of the acquisition of property by the State in these cases is usually a sale, exchange or expropriation. In addition to the acquisition of strategic assets, however, a large number of them, in terms of their number, are transferred to the property of the State in excess of the acquisition of assets on these three property rights, and currently MNV Zrt. the direct management of assets which do not have any explicit State interest in obtaining, i.e. the State does not even have an interest in acquiring ownership. Unintended acquisition of property shall not be included in the performance of public tasks. These assets may not be used on the market or in any way, and a significant part of them do not have a market for sale, and it is therefore appropriate to provide for the possibility of free transfer to local authorities, churches and civil society organisations in order to assist in their tasks in the public interest. Between 2018 and 2020, the state inherited an average of 2416 properties per year worth HUF 3.5 billion, 28 495 items worth some HUF 400 million, and 83 companies with a total value of HUF 140 million. The management of these large but small assets is disproportionate in the state asset management process. The aim of the proposal before you is to establish a differentiated set of rules on small-value, less market-use assets that are not necessary for the performance of these public tasks. On the basis of the bill, in the future, the assets that will be owned by the State through unintended acquisition of state assets will not be included in MNV Zrt. general asset management processes. To this end, the bill makes a proposal for the temporary management and release of non-strategic assets by the organization, the Remaining Property Benefit Ltd. as a rule, the appointment of practitioners of ownership rights. In addition, the aim of the regulation is currently to redirect assets of low value and economic value managed by MNV, which are no longer strategic, from MNV Zrt. to Remaining Property-Useful Zrt. This requires MNV Zrt., which manages strategic assets. and Recreational Property Management Ltd. the establishment of an efficient electronic procedure to ensure a two-way transfer of assets compared to the options offered by the current state wealth law rules. The introduction of rapid and simplified procedures in the legal order to ensure the effective removal of non-strategic assets is also a key element of regulation. In view of this, the bill amends and complements the law on national assets with the intention of creating sustainable wealth management, and the rules of the State Property Act with rules to facilitate the socially beneficial removal of assets classified as State assets intended for discharge. In order to focus on strategic government asset management, the main regulatory elements of the bill include rules on the rating of assets, which will make it possible to separate in the future what constitutes strategic and what constitutes government assets intended for discharge. It should be stressed that the State's assets intended for discharge are MNV Zrt. Although it represents a larger proportion of the number of assets directly managed, it represents a very low value compared to strategic assets, i.e. those necessary for the public task or income-generating assets. [[9.10]] Dear House, By amending the National Property Act, the bill lays down state-owned assets and MNV Zrt. property elements which are subject to ownership rights and which are not strategically classified as having no relevant economic revenue-generating capacity in the conceptual sphere of national assets. The amending provisions contain specific basic rules on the management of assets intended to be removed, so that the proper, effective and sustainable management of assets is reflected in the preamble to the Act. The bill also changes the concept of business property in view of the introduction of the new concept. In addition to the above, new special rules taking into account the nature of the property, such as the possible duration of the transfer to use, for the exploitation and free ownership of public assets intended for discharge, will be set out in a shorter period of time, as well as an exception to the limitation of the intended exploitation or disposal ban in respect of the free transfer of public assets intended for removal. The provisions of the bill on the amendment of the State Property Act lay down the organisational and regulatory basis for the management of state assets intended for discharge as part of the new category of state assets. Among the organizational rules are the Remaining Property Useful Zrt. provisions laying down the framework for the designation, status and functioning of the exercise of ownership rights. The rules on the management of public assets intended for discharge are laid down in a separate chapter. The Remembrance Property Plc. in the light of the type, nature, physical status and market conditions and asset management requirements, it is flexible to decide on how the asset is to be removed from public property, while complying with the basic guarantee rules on State property. In addition to the sale, Residency Property Useful Zrt. the right to transfer the ownership of the public property intended for discharge free of charge, irrespective of the threshold, to the local government, church, church legal person and civil society organisation carrying out a charitable activity, and to transfer, free of charge, in special cases, the ownership of assets which cannot be used alone, to beneficiaries who are legally defined in a manner which can be objectively examined in relation to the property concerned. In view of the temporary ownership situation of the State in the course of the operation of the companies covered by the State's assets intended to be removed, the scheme exempts them from obligations relating to companies which are typically dominated by a majority of the state, such as the establishment of an internal control system for publicly owned companies whose purpose is not in fact compatible with the purpose of the assets covered by the assets to be transferred and typically requires a significant administrative burden, high costs and additional resources. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, the bill amends the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up, as well as certain provisions of the Law on estate proceedings. By amending the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, it will be possible that if the Hungarian State inherits a share in a debtor holding organization by way of a legal succession, and after the succession of the State, Cstv will start. any proceedings against the debtor which fall within the scope of its scope, in the context of the bankruptcy proceedings or the opening of winding-up proceedings of such a debtor entity, shall be dealt with as an administrator of property, as a temporary administrator of property and as a liquidator by the State. The obligation to provide for the contribution of the public insolvency administrator is justified from the public interest and from the public interest in these cases, and it is not a disadvantage for other stakeholders, since the rules governing the winding-up are also applicable to the functioning of the public insolvency administrator. By amending the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up, it will be possible for the shareholder to request the action of the company court if the State has inherited a company stake and, in this context, initiated the convening of the main body to settle the public ownership or the future situation of the company, but the initiation of the gathering of the main body will not take place. If the company involved in the State succession is inoperative, the Court of Justice may initiate legal proceedings in the public interest. In view of the succession of the State, it is appropriate to designate as supervisory commissioner in such proceedings, and it is also appropriate to ensure that the Cstv is the final administrator of the companies involved in the State's succession. The Commission may also act by means of a public winding-up. By amending the Law on the Probation Procedure, the bill introduces guarantee rules in order to preserve the functioning of the companies involved in the succession and to protect their assets. On this basis, if, in the absence of any other legal heir, the State is expected to inherit a company stake, the company concerned may be ordered as a trustee to exercise ownership rights acting on behalf of the State, if it initiates this, or agrees with the secondment as guardian in the event of another insurance measure initiated at its request. While the exercise of ownership rights on behalf of the State is limited as a trustee, it can support the operation of the company concerned even before the final determination of the status of heir and, as a candidate for membership rights, exercise ownership control over it. On the basis of the bill, the notary will always have to notify the court of business if the State inherits any amount of company participation in a company other than a public limited company. In addition to what has been said, the bill also proposes to amend a number of other laws in order to grant the same permissions as MNV Zrt. in the performance of its tasks relating to public assets intended for discharge. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, In addition to the above, the bill before you amends the law on the integration of cooperative credit institutions. Given that the functioning of integration has now been consolidated, on the basis of the bill, the Assembly of the Integration Organisation may decide not to apply the provisions which ensure the participation of the Integration Organisation and the Integration Business Management Organisation at the meeting of the main body of the Integration Organisation, the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The bill designates the National Infocommunication Service Provider Private Limited Company as a trustee of the state-owned and already owned or operated assets. In addition to the appointment of a trustee, the bill confers special powers on the company. In view of the speed of technological progress, the public service mission is no longer required, it ensures that the company sells them on its own, offers them for charitable purposes and scraps them. The proceeds from the sale can only be used by the company to increase the state's assets and to acquire new assets. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on all this, I would like to ask that T/15995. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The T/15995 on the sustainable management of state wealth, to be discussed before us. Package No.1 is a law with which we have been preparing for a long time, which we have been thinking about, and today it is fully drawn up in front of Parliament, broken down in detail. As is known, the procedure of the so-called cost-benefit reasoning, regulated by Act C of 2000 on Accounting, says that asset management must in any case be used to ensure that it is sustainable in the long term and to comply with all the elements that have performed management, public service provision in any event as a function of the Hungarian government and the Hungarian State. It is a great pleasure for me that, with a task similar to that of MNV Zrt., an organization is created that can quickly and effectively sell unnecessary assets for public administration and public service. What is the meaning of this legislation, which is drawn up in detail here before us? All elements that deal with the issue of state wealth, the sale of non-necessary assets, are worked out in detail and processed in detail in all its elements, whether we look at the cost of state property, a definition of the circle that is unnecessary for public management, whether it is operated or sold or more precisely: its placement. A lot of assets have been mentioned by the Secretary of State about the small value and the large amount of property that comes to the Hungarian state, either as a result of inheritance, legacy or any kind of implementation or other procedure, the detection and maintenance of which is an almost opaque task not only in the life of MNV Zrt. but also in the life of any organization. Now this legislation regulates what these assets are and what MVH Zrt. is included. Among his assets. In particular, I would like to highlight small-value property, which is less than HUF 1 million, or small-value real estate with a registration value below HUF 25 million. We know that these, too, have been in very large quantities of MNV Zrt. in recent years. your registration file, your management. I would also like to highlight the processes that, as a result of the successions, are still unorganized. Whether by reviewing the land records or the business records, there are many outstanding cases, where neither the heirs nor the heirs had any claim, so they came to the state or were brought into the property of the Hungarian State by the NAV or by any authority as a result of enforcement. These records bind almost infinite energy and resources. I highlighted it, and I started thinking about how important it is to manage the state's wealth, which means rational farming following the cost. The legislation clearly defines what is the task of Remaining Property Useful Zrt., and clearly describes how and how to monitor and manage either the assets damaged by storage, transport, treatment, depreciation or maintenance, or even falling in value. The aim is to ensure that assets that are redundant in this system can be sold as soon as possible. The legislation specifically refers to the way they can be sold and to the valuation process, whether by means of an internal or external valuer, is once again fully regulated. I would like to highlight the electronic sales system of MNV Zrt. is operating. This legislation continues to allow this and MVH Zrt. ensure that these assets can be sold in accelerated form as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. I would also like to point out that the MVH itself is able to ensure the preservation, the exclusion of deterioration from the revenue generated from this, and therefore has sufficient financial resources at its disposal to ensure that the assets entrusted to it are fully valued. In particular, it is positive that in many places, settlements, there are elements of property that the municipality considers necessary for the performance or operation of the public service, and so far the request and transfer of these assets has been a bit of a difficult process, but now, with this new legislation, we can speed up this process and, whether for churches, for charitable organisations or for local governments, can be transferred to exploitable properties. My opinion is that the management of state wealth will become transparent, transparent and manageable, and will facilitate the process, the acceleration needed to ensure that the Hungarian State has the necessary wealth to provide public service as soon as possible and will continue its activities. The legislation also covers environmental regulation, as the tax law is amended, it provides MVH Zrt. with the same rights, which MNV Zrt. also has, changes to the corporate tax law, changes to local tax legislation, changes to bankruptcy, changes to the tax on motor vehicles, changes to all environmental legislation, which will accelerate and facilitate this process. The legislation concerns not only this area but also other professional areas. I refer here to the legislative amendment concerning the NFK on national land, the National Earth Fund, which again allows quick management and settlement of assets within the framework of common ownership and implementation. Last year, as is known, there was before the Hungarian Parliament a package of legislation which facilitates the elimination of undivided common property on the subject of the National Land Fund. Here too, there is often a problem with successions, estates, transfers of assets to the Hungarian state, and their closure takes a very long time. This legislation will also speed this up and make it possible. Obviously, the legislation is not all-encompassing in the rules and paragraphs in this area, obviously it will be done by practice, but I very much welcome the fact that we are dealing with the issue and we are trying to help this area and move it forward. I would also like to address the so-called cooperative credit institutions. We are ending the transformation process, which has resulted in a completely new banking system being built and created, and certain rules are no longer necessary. The regulation introduced here allows for the introduction of these rules and for active work in addition to the rules, also facilitating this activity. [[9.30]] Overall, the package itself fully ensures, in my opinion, the speeding up of sales processes with state assets, the use of State assets, the optimisation of revenues and the establishment of a transparent registration system, which ensures that we can cooperate effectively with relatively low costs. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-29-5	Mr President, Dear House, The House is living a dramatic moment with this bill. I see before me those imaginary crumbling State Secretarys whose words are being bombed by Fidesz-KDNP with this proposal, since they basically suggest that the state is a bad farmer, as quickly as possible to channel certain assets. In the first place, a salad law is submitted to act to privatise the state's assets for discharge as soon as possible. We can say, therefore, that, in recalling the mood of spontaneous privatisation that had been resolved, the strategic assets are being thrown out by other laws, the government that is about to fail is likely to outsource a thousand billion-dollar scale and, in his opinion, under its own supervision, to have access to what after the fall, and now touch the non-strategic assets, but in an amazing way where we can clarify an important basis. I do not dispute the professional competences of the makers of the proposal at all. I think that a professionally well-prepared team has written what is ahead of us, represented by a professionally well-prepared secretary of state, who should also allow me a personal comment, I regret that you must defend such proposals, although with certain elements I am quite certain that you do not agree, obviously with others. I have to say, the people who wrote this package knew very well what they were doing. It is not, therefore, that some wordings might have gone wrong because of inaccuracies or mistakes. In front of us, there's a package with simply blood-creeping findings. We also see that sales and free delivery are equivalent instruments, so they do not even pay attention to the fact that at least some revenue from small or non-strategic assets is realised by the State, but rather concentrate on bringing you as quickly as possible to purify this portfolio, so these assets should be transferred as quickly as possible, whether free of charge or gifted. I myself have no objection to the fact that, in a way that facilitates the life of a church institution, they receive some kind of asset element for use, but to scatter wealth elements in bulk and without remuneration towards a completely unknown organizational net, since this is not clarified by the proposal, it is absolutely amazing; once again, it represents the visual and mood of spontaneous privatisation. It is also when it appears in the proposal that an internal or external valuer may actually act here in respect of the valuation. Obviously, the objectivity of the internal valuer may be highly questionable in such a case, but this is again a personal remark. I also see that when such expressions follow one another as preventing further accumulation of state wealth, this clearly quotes the idea that the state is a bad farmer and that the state must be freed from these assets. I have heard these thoughts, and I didn't like them in the previous decades when they came back, because I don't believe in fully liberalised market-sided thinking, where the market will solve everything, and there is, indeed, among the authors, a professional I don't know as a person who has this idea. However, it appears to us here that it does not matter whether things are passed over free of charge or not, the main goal is to get rid of them as soon as possible, since they include speed in the proposal; in order to ensure the conditions for the rational management of state assets, these objectives prevent the requirement of proportionality from being enforced. So you're going to put in the proposal that instead of value-added sales, you're going to try to speed up, sweep out the remaining government assets as quickly as possible. It's quite amazing, then. We've thought nasty things before, but putting them in writing is very, very rare. We also have to say that something here is quite amazingly covering the portfolio of state and national assets by the Government of Hungary. Firstly, the national inventory has not been completed for a very long time. When he made it, Parliament was involved, but the Chain Bridge missed it, and then we got to the point where, although the inventory was still not ready, we could at least learn how much of the country's precious metal reserve was. It also took a lot of years to get the answer out of you. Then the strategic assets began to be outsourced to foundations, the Hungarian people and taxpayers' wallets were burdened in some amazing way, and now they also pay attention to non-strategic assets. So what we see is that they are practically living in the world of blank cheques, and they would like us to sign another blank cheque, as it is in this text that the Orbán government is authorized to later lay down rules for the rating, transfer-taking, exercise, registration of ownership rights, and the other, and other, relevant rules. So they don't even bother to put a ready-made package in front of us, and then they want to lay down further detailed rules in a regulation, and once again, we should talk about a salad law, and we should decide which makes it difficult for us to make an emotionless decision, so obviously I won't reveal a secret by saying that we won't support this package. I have one more issue to mention, since it is a matter of state and national wealth. The government's haste is understandable from the point of view that it is preparing for its fall, but there is another aspect, which is not understandable to me, and this is the National Asset Management Ltd. plowing, plowing. What we see here is that they are trying to throw away the existing property here, even though it is a repulsive thing for me that they have taken the property away from former owners, and then they could be a tenant in their former property, and finally they want to throw these unsold properties in another way; there are about 4,600 tenants left, who are still close to this system. There can be discussions about how many of them are behind-the-counters, why they are behind-the-back, why they could not meet their repayment obligations, but the National Asset Management Ltd. has been closed, the remaining tenants and their properties will be taken over by the TLA created by the Antall Government to support the provision of the tasks of the Teleki László Foundation, and we can see that the accelerated sale of apartments bought out of troubled foreign currency creditors has become the main priority, which absolutely overrides the ability to place these people in Hungary in a manner and in the long term, to find their place within the nation, because they too have my position. For their situation, it is true that there was no fair settlement law, Fidesz-KDNP signed a pact with banks, signed a EBRD pact since February 2015 it has been up on the government's website in English, and has implemented market rate forints, even though almost all the neighbouring countries have been able to move their laws towards the conversion at the time of admission. There is one exception, the Government of Hungary. Having managed to loot the currency-loaners in this way, the National Asset Manager managed to provide temporary air for several thousands of people. I'm not saying it was a perfect solution, but it was breathing. What we see now is that this system is gone, the rest of the wealth is thrown away, and we cannot rest assured of the fate of thousands of people in or near the system. Therefore, if we are talking about national wealth and state wealth, I am going to call on the government not to meet the need for accelerated privatisation, but first of all to ensure the safety of our fellow countrymen concerned, at least to guarantee them the opportunity of prosperity, so that they can start their lives again, and once again, whether it be strategic or not, to act as a good farmer. I claim that in certain strategic areas, the state can be a good owner of these networks, and that non-Strategic rating is often a subjective emotional issue. I'm sure we can find some of these items of wealth that we're quite sure we want to protect, and you seem to want to drum me up, sell me out, even at the cost of outstanding scale, just to throw out as much wealth as possible before your fall, and save as many of the strategic elements to the foundations as possible, because for some reason you think that after 2022 it can stay that way, but I assure you, it can't stay that way. Thank you for your attention. [[9.40]]
u2021-04-29-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-29-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am deeply sorry that my fellow Member, Z. Carpath, misunderstood the text of the law, the intention of the law and the intention of the government. No one told me the state couldn't be a good farmer. In fact, in the last 11 years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has demonstrated that the state can be a good farmer, since we have increased the state's assets by 1.5 times compared to 2010. You know exactly how much state wealth has grown since 2010 in real estate, corporate participation, technology, machinery. Mr President, there is a difference, Mr President, here you are talking about spontaneous and accelerated privatisation, but let us make a distinction, honourable Member, between the two sequences of events; that is, between Ferenc Gyurcsány selling Dunaferr with an annual income of 1.5 billion for 110 million forints, this is what is called a robbery privatisation, and between the fact that a property used by a church school, which is state-owned and that church school has been operating in that building for many decades, the maintenance order, the diocese, the church. Don't tell me, honourable Member, that these events, these two things, would be comparable. Between 2002 and 2010, the Gyurcsány government sold 192 profitable public companies, mostly profitable companies at a lower price. That was the robbery privatisation, honourable Member, when family silver was sold out as the property of the Hungarian state. This week, Prime Minister has already mentioned the MOL stock market, for example, but we could say the waterworks, the airport, a lot of things could be listed here, honourable Member, how strategic public companies in national security sectors have been privatised to buddies and foreign speculators. That was a time of robbery. On the other hand, what is in this law, honourable Members, is a completely different process. You know it, but if you don't know it, I'm going to tell you that there is a lot of money, energy, human resources, time that goes away by maintaining small-value real estates that have otherwise become the property of the Hungarian state, out of use, not necessary to carry out public tasks. The bacterier house of a closed train station, the properties in the various inherited, unherited farmland worlds, the former agricultural warehouses are owned by the state, honourable Member. The management, maintenance of these, as well as the enormous cost of preserving the state, and the Hungarian National Asset Manager must also move enormous resources and human resources to manage this wealth in some way. By the way, he attacks the fact that it is perfectly clear in the bill who can receive it free of charge, because you have been talking about gifts and free-of-charge: local government has so far been a great advocate of the local government, my fellow Members, a legal person, which is not some sort of undefined legal concept, honourable Member, a very clear definition of how church legal persons can receive real estate or charities. Those categories of entities are those who are able to obtain such public ownership free of charge. If you have a problem with any of them, honourable Member, so that the municipalities, churches or organisations serving charitable purposes cannot receive it, you can say so, but I think that it will remain in the service of the community, because the municipalities are also serving the community. Let's just forget about the vision that you have here on a regular basis, that people are there for local governments. No, the authorities are for the people. In the last year, all your speeches have been about is how you want to capitalise the municipalities and give them more money at the expense of the people. Well, the government is for the people, not the other way around. The social work of the churches, I know, is regularly attacked and denied by DK, but the churches are socializing, community-organizing, religious, educating, educational, health and social activities for the benefit of the community. The way historical churches operate in Hungary, in a way embedded in society, otherwise for the benefit of society and for the benefit of all citizens individually, and perform their duties in an excellent way. Or is the problem with the charity, my fellow Members? Those who help the most needy, who are there in natural disasters and floods, who regularly organize collections, actions, firewood and support school start-ups to help families in need, are helping families in difficulty during the crisis during the coronal virus epidemic, for example, most of the time they are church-related organizations, but not exclusively. For example, there is the Hungarian Red Cross, the ecumenical charity service, the Maltese Charity Service, the Catholic Charity, we could list the organizations that, from Transcarpathia onwards, support this society, this nation, and I think it is in our common interest that we can continue this work by strengthening it. In recent years, charities have finally managed to build a storage base, finally to strengthen their voluntary network, and finally to recognise their activities through the National Humanitarian Coordination Council and the Charity Council, which I would like to thank from here, as they have done well in a very difficult situation in the last year. I think they deserve to have real estate essential to their activities or in a place where they operate, they can get what the state doesn't need. We are only talking about real estate that is not necessary for public service tasks and which currently consumes resources. You have been confused, honourable Member, with the recipient. We should have just turned left, who sold out a lot of the family silver during the robbery. Since then, the Fidesz-KDNP government has only increased the size of the state's assets, because it also shows that we want to carry out portfolio cleaning in connection with this bill, that the properties that carry the money and are not associated with public tasks should find a better goal, a goal where the property can be fulfilled and serve a purpose that is beneficial to society and that does not fall short, or only carries resources and money. I think this is the right direction. I understand that the direction now is to attack the churches, the charities, but I do think, because the law clearly defines who can get it free of charge, your concerns, your accusations do not stand the test of reality. It is not that the state's wealth would somehow go somewhere else, foolishly and inexorably. This is precisely about getting more attention to the state's increased wealth that needs attention, which needs to be addressed, which needs to be dealt with, which needs to be increased, and not to be taken away from what could serve better goals elsewhere, or which has taken only money away from the state, but has never profited. You, too, must have seen many of these buildings when you are travelling around the country, countless abandoned properties, which have often grown into weeds or on the brink of destruction, which were once worth a better fate, and once served more important goals, only privatisation in the 1990s, and then privatisation in the 2004-05-06s has put these areas, these properties, in a position that today there will be a continuous deterioration, and these properties will lie out of use. I ask you to support the social work of local governments, churches and charitable organisations, for example, with this bill. I think this bill will help the state to become an even better farmer. I fully agree with you in that sentence, my fellow Member, that there are areas where the state can be a good farmer. Before 2010, there was an attitude that the state could not be a good farmer, who, by the way, socialist leaders said that the state was not a good farmer, so it was necessary to get rid of everything. How, then, did this release happen? Aaron below, mates, and indeed, so that the Hungarian people were in harm's way. The 4th metro case, the construction of the M5 motorway, was worth HUF 2800 billion to the Hungarian state only for those two motorway constructions. Here is the series of events where robbery has damaged Hungarian people. Fortunately, since then, the state has been acting with the care of a good farmer, increasing public wealth, promoting the growth of public wealth, and, in addition, very rightly supporting the work of important organisations such as local governments or churches as a social builder and community organizer. [[9.50]] I see value, not a problem, and I think that local governments, churches and charitable organisations should be supported in all possible ways. Therefore, the KDNP fraction will also do the same with this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I get to the proposal, it was interesting to hear Lőrinc Nacsa's speech after how our state-owned universities were organized into foundations this week. The aim of the proposal is to reform the system of public asset management once again, in this case the aim is to create a new state asset manager, whose task is to manage small-value assets, but which are often difficult to sell, in the author's words: to clarify the portfolio. Therefore, the Private Limited Company, TLA Asset Management and Benefit Co., is established. with the transformation of your body. This trustee may follow considerably simpler rules for the sale of small-value assets. This goes hand in hand with the general state trustee, the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. This company has been responsible for these tasks so far. An important change to the proposal is the inclusion of the concept of state assets intended for the discharge into the State Property Act. The MNV carries out tasks related to the transfer or temporary exploitation of these assets. According to the government, in the event of a failure to sell within the framework of market competition, it offers alternative solutions to support early exit, with fewer administrative and sales restrictions. Such property may be in addition to the inherited property, or the value of which does not exceed HUF 1 or HUF 25 million. Government speakers and Secretary of State have said that we are talking about small-value assets, but, as the Secretary of State has said, this is close to the HUF 4 billion asset item on an annual basis. If we add it up, we're talking about HUF 3.5 billion in real estate, 400 million in assets and HUF 140 million in assets. So we can say that if we add these assets together, then we are not talking about small value anymore, but we are about to transfer 4 billion HUF per year. It is very interesting to hear the reasons given by the former Secretary of State, as he has repeatedly mentioned on the basis of the Fundamental Law that the government must protect the state's wealth and increase it. Now, what we're seeing this week is the exact opposite of what the government is doing now, it's continuing to outsource high-value assets, and today we're going to start outsourcing small-value assets. The assets intended for discharge fall within the legal succession of the State, i.e. when there are no assets acquired by way of an heir, claims and assets received by the State in return for a claim arising from a public debt, taking into account that in both cases the State receives various assets or, in certain cases, claims by means of unintended, forced acquisition. They are typically not of high value and the State, as the national declares, does not need any assets or the enforcement of claims for its strategic tasks, has little success. Here it has been said several times that the state will give these small-value assets free of charge to local governments, ecclesiastical legal entities and charities. Allow me here, my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, to say that over the last ten years we have seen the processes of what kind of NGOs, what churches and what municipalities the government has given its support to, and it is quite narrowed down if we can say so who has been given a free share of the state's wealth. The repeated and many changes to the state asset management system raise several questions. The main reason why this new company needs to be established or formed is why. Once again, the organisation will double, which will lead to an increase in operating costs. For this reason, in 2010 the Orbán government took over governance by saying that its first announcements were to reduce bureaucracy and reduce the state apparatus; the justification was that there were fewer ministries, that there would be fewer Members in Parliament because they would reduce the maintenance of the state itself. Compared to this, the number of State Secretarys increased immensely, the number of ministerial agents, the number of Deputy State Secretarys, it is now impossible to monitor when they are appointed, and we can say that the maintenance of the state has increased several times over the period before 2010. That is why we say that it is unnecessary to create another organization. The Secretary of State did not mention the non-negligible amendment, and it is equally important that László Domokos suddenly needs another Vice-President. At present, there is one Vice-President of the State Court of Auditors, which the proposal would like to raise to two. Domokos' 12-year mandate expires in the summer of 2022. The government's asset management meant the outsourcing of a thousand billion-dollar public assets to private foundations with fidesz politicians and oligarchs. Here, let us also say, my fellow Member, that, let us say, more than 300 properties will be transferred free of charge to the foundation set up to maintain the University of Debrecen. The MOL Foundation will receive more than five percent of the shares from the private fund from the state. We're talking about handing over more than a hundred billion forints of stock! So, Congressman, I don't know if you haven't been here in the parliamentary debates in the last few weeks or if you haven't read the laws that you have submitted? Although here, allow me to make a suggestion to give Zsolt Semjén a sleeping pill so that he can sleep at night, because we see that if he does not sleep, he can submit terrible laws in Parliament's IT system before midnight. And maybe it would be better if you could sleep quietly, because then they wouldn't hurt the citizens that much. So I'm assuming that in recent weeks, Congressman hasn't read these laws, and he doesn't even know what these laws are about, what kind of state assets are being transferred to the property of Fidesz-related curators and foundations. Mr Secretary of State, I hope you can explain that it is true that you refer to the expansion of the State Audit Office, that foreign examples show that you may have several alternates, and that you will increase the number of such offices by referring to the fact that it has not yet been necessary, and that we will also amend this one year before the elections. Precisely in the explanatory statement, Mr Secretary of State said that the process has just come to pass, that it has to be made easier for governments, churches, church legal entities and charitable civil society organisations to access nearly HUF 4 billion of state wealth on an annual basis. I don't know, if you haven't been rushing for ten years, and it hasn't been important so far, then why do we decide here before the elections or do you decide to facilitate the outsourcing of another HUF 4 billion a year with this bill? If we didn't see the last ten or eleven years of what's been going on in the last few years, we could still assume that this law would be created with good intentions. We understand the purpose itself, we also understand how they want to achieve it, but in recent years we have not seen that good intentions and the caring state and the state act as a good farmer, but we see that after the outsourcing of high-value state assets, I repeat myself now the rapid outsourcing of small-value state assets is taking place with this amendment. [[10.00]] I hope the Secretary of State will reassure me that this is not happening. I hope that I will get answers to my questions, and therefore, under these circumstances, we should consider on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party whether we will abstain or vote against. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-11	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. I wish you a good day, everyone, who is taking part in this debate today, because, in a sense, as we have heard here from my fellow opposition Members, a moment of refreshment may come to the right-wing fellow Members. Indeed, we are witnessing events, Members on the opposition side are following up on this story, and my fellow Members on the pro-government side are pretending that this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that can be supported calmly, because otherwise it is of little value, and it does not really need to be addressed. Well, I think that if we look at the details of the rules, or if we see the lack of them, then it's certainly worth thinking about. Before I begin to comment on the law, I would first like to reflect on a few things that Mr Secretary of State has said about what we fundamentally disagree with or what it is that raises doubts about acceptance. The first and important question in itself, as President of the Budget Committee, is this, where we have heard the Minister before, that we have always received the production report that everything is nice and everything is all right and that we can go on. The value of state assets is increasing annually, and otherwise, the registration of this has been relatively difficult to solve. But there is a need for a new transformation here, said the Secretary of State, because the experience gained over the past period, let us say so, and not the negative phenomena or opportunity to make profits, which is why this transformation will take place. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, that when, in itself, the most important word for you is the accelerated export of wealth from the state register, you must bear it, too, that what you are doing raises doubts. In this way, if I add that the detailed rules were said to be left to the government, then, based on the government's activities so far, the small may seem small on your part, but in our formulation, it is an important state value that should be taken care of. In addition, if the rules are designed in such a way that you categorize what the little one means to you, then it could mean serious problems and serious asset relief. So once there is this acceleration and the granting of a mandate in the absence of rules by law, and in such a way to reassure those state employees or managers or company managers that they can freely sign because they can say that they are going to go on with a type of solution made by law or order. So from this point of view, I think, and if I miss the process of you running a really big week or living a great time, we are here for a great time, with the Minister's report of the activity being before Parliament, that you are here with a legislative amendment, that, by the way, the ministerial hearing is going to take place, I see that you are trying to tie up all the strings, legitimize what you are doing otherwise; to cover that, by the way, you do not have to watch backwards while you escape. Well, if that is why the transformation is necessary, I say, in my reading, then I believe that there must be doubts; even if Mr Secretary of State claims that there is much to do and little to return from these assets. Well, be more patient and more meticulous. Moreover, the Secretary of State has even asked for an exemption to ensure that various internal processes are controlled, but then bless and bless and let him go on. I do not know how this relates to what the President of the State Audit Office thinks of this story, because I will discuss later what negative comments he made about that organisation, in particular with regard to such internal rules. And even though I think that makes you correct that, but if they are exempted by law from the existence of internal regulations, it is, I think, another step in the direction of rapidly, as much wealth as possible to those who will be loyal owners, and I will go further on this trail. With regard to the facilitation of the integration organisation for savings cooperatives and what the Secretary of State said he had now reached the stage: Mr Secretary of State, the countryside has reached a state of total abandonment. These people have been deprived of the possibility of direct savings cooperatives. You can be proud to quote a big bank for yourselves, and you gave it to your friends. The wealth of more than 100,000 people has been played out without having a meaningful say in this, lost its value from their point of view, and you are now trying to dominate the majority ownership of private individuals. That's what you said to end the savings cooperative process. And if you have to put an end to the "i" here, then face the number of people you've taken your property from, and how many people you've taken away from, the opportunity that would otherwise apply to direct access to finance. And you talk about how important the countryside is. We heard yesterday's debates on transport, and we know exactly what happened in this case. And in this case, or in this sense, it is absolutely true that, as my fellow Member here on the right mentioned that there are people for the local authorities, in your opinion, it is, well, here that they realize that they think that people are going to make a market for you. And you'll be on the side of the beneficial owners in this bank, because you don't see people any different, but simply bank clients who will give you a transfer. But, Mr. Secretary, let's just say, seeing the wonderful eyes before or above masks, I'd be happy to give you one more example of what's going on. At the time, when my fellow pro-government Member here refers to, as he said, the people are for the municipalities, well, you think that people are for the state. That is what my fellow Member has said, and that is how you are acting. You may try to put it differently, but the point is what I say. And now, please, when you changed the form of tobacco trade, you took away more than ten thousand people's jobs, and, by the way, you might say to your fellows again, you played it into a loyal ownership circle, and all you did was take away the opportunity from the people, and then you took it, and you gave it to those who are pawning you. [[10.10]] And by doing so, they will achieve what you say, yes, the creation of the Hungarian bourgeoisie, and thus serve those who support you financially or in any other form. All you do is give the market opportunity of the people to the circles that you have benefited from. Now, this law contributes to this, and maybe not all of its paragraphs apply to this, and there may be a part of it about what to do and what to do with the assets inherited by the state or falling on it, while hiding it and keeping it in it, and strengthening this process; see now also for savings cooperatives. And then you can't ignore it here, and you can't stop talking about the fact that you're trying to create a situation like you're talking about an increase in wealth. While the wealth is now being transferred into the hands of those, here, not according to business logic, but perhaps more precisely in the responsibilities or powers of fellow Members and Ministers in Parliament's horseshoes, by placing foundations, curatorials and fidesz potentates in curatorials, who, by the way, accept hundreds of billions of forints... But, I mean, this is the list that I've been trying to collect, although you're trying to confuse it with care, so that it's not transparent, it's not accurate, it's not there, but they're playing nearly a thousand billion forints for these foundations. I think that the biggest sin in this regard is that they failed to hold a debate on the need to amend Hungary's higher education system, and we are now in the same place, remember, Mr State Secretary, we started by: transformation and then transformation, but there is no social consensus on this. While the people's wealth is being used for their own purposes so that those leaders, we can list the names, I don't have to mention them, you know more than I do who has been put into these curatoriums with millions of salaries, they will be prepared for the next period to go hunting, if necessary, by helicopter to Gödöllő, and then by the way, to make good decisions, together with bank managers. Well, thank you very much, that's when you can say, yes, the people, the nation, want to give the people's wealth exclusively into the hands of people that, I think, are in no way eligible. You can't agree with that, and on this basis, even under this law, I think that asking you... of course, to think about it again would be like asking the Bengal tiger to become a vegetarian. You've seen the wealth, you've got to get it, and you've got to control it; you've got to control it; you've got to control those who helicopter, urize and show them with all your watches that they're the supremacy, they're the bourgeoisie, they're the ones you're creating now. [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Yes, Congressman, with your support. You like it or you don't like it, this is what's happening, and that's why you're responsible, because you're creating the opportunity for this situation. And that includes, by the way, the fact that Parliament is outsourced in itself from its function and control role, not only this wealth in general, but also a significant part of the budget. So, on the whole, that's why we're against such a transfer of assets. Now I will be able to talk about, then, later on, that the person to whom it is being reorganized is the organization that also provides the IT background on the implementation of the electoral system. Now, why you have to get involved in this election and why you have to do this is bound to suggest what you're going to do with it. We have already seen that the election was cheated in 2018. The system collapsed out of incompetence. That's what you did. However, at this time, we do not know what is being prepared, because otherwise, no study has been carried out for this law about its effects and consequences. They save it, and they don't want to show it to us in this way, but I'll continue to do so next, because this law, in this form, is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-12	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-04-29-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, You all probably know, I've spent a long time working in the market, and I've had the fear that Parliament's building will now be marked "Action!" It's on sale! All for sale and all for sale. I have also heard the head of the Secretary of State, and I have also heard the views of my fellow members of the Government on the bill before us, but I think we should start at the beginning. We know exactly, we know the Fidesz-KDNP association's practice of asset management, strategy, decisions, but not only at state level, from municipal level to state level, almost everything at all levels. Well, let's take a look. Once again, at local government level, it is certainly known to everyone between 2010-14 as a municipal representative, after which I was a metropolitan representative, and I remember the Fidesz-KDNP decisions concerning asset management, which resulted, for example, in Article IX. The municipality-owned property was sold in the district with a purchase price of HUF 7.5 million. This property was sold, then within two days, so within 48 hours the same property was advertised for HUF 32 million. This is your management of assets, from which we have seen excellent examples not only at municipal level, but also at state level. Just think about the Hungarian National Bank and its attached parts. And, in comparison to that, you have a social policy that has resulted in a gap between the various members of society that has never been seen. Because what you've been doing for many years is consistently, and I always say that I value consistency very much, unfortunately, this exception, which strengthens the rule, I can't put much value on it for the wealthy, they've given more to the needy, and they've taken more. As a result, in the existential sense of society, the scissors opened very harshly. And if you look at this bill, you can show nice words, sounds, communication panels, but the thing is, if you look at such a bill, which allows you to sell and give away non-strategic elements and property elements because I can't put free in a different way, it is worth looking at the control function of the Hungarian Parliament. And allow me to read a passage of the law. [[10.20]] In the case of a free transfer of ownership within the meaning of paragraph 3, the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Act No. 13 Paragraph 4 (b) shall not apply. This is what the law we are discussing on control says. Let's see if the National Property Act is 13. Paragraph 4 (b), which is not applicable, what it says. And then I'll watch this. In the case of a free transfer of ownership of the national property, the party acquiring the ownership, with the exception of the State, must comply with the following conditions and here comes point (b): So from now on, no one will be able to track the wealth that you gave to an organization free of charge, and it doesn't matter for what purpose it will be in one, two, five, ten or even twenty years' time. And then we didn't talk about the assets that they didn't give to someone for free. The reason I brought up their social policy at the beginning of the speaker's speech is that the same elements of wealth could have been created under regulated conditions with a strong control system, which, by the way, as Dániel Z. Karpát mentioned, could have greatly alleviated, for example, the housing crisis, and a system could have been created that would have helped the deprived population of society or the country. Unfortunately, the practice we have experienced over the past years, and now we can talk about almost a decade, even 11 years, shows that this law cannot be supported, this law cannot be promoted, the adoption of this law is a crime against Hungarian society. I think that's the best way to put it. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In practice, the sale continues, one of the drivers of which is that they no longer feel so safe about the election of 22 and I think they have every reason to do so. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This law is outrageous. This law can't be supported by either the LMP or any good-hearted congressman with a good heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-04-29-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2021-04-29-15	Thank you. Mr President, Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, I would say, missed the fact that the funds were given to the universities. If you want to take the wealth away from the universities, then stand before the voters, because you say you want to take the money from the universities. That fortune was given to the universities. If you don't want to sacrifice for higher education, feel free to say so. I would say to Congressman Varju that you misunderstood again, obviously on purpose. You've been saying here for a year that people are here for local governments to pay the trade tax. Your mayor has asked businesses to pay the business tax, and we say that the municipality is for the people, and if we left the money in a crisis with the people, we left it at the businesses in trouble, it's in place, because it's not the people for the municipalities, it's the municipalities for the people. Honourable Congressman, Funny, you were talking about election fraud. In the last thirty years, there has been a proven election fraud, when in 2006 there was a thousand billion HUF difference between the budget figures published by you and reality. It has been the biggest election fraud in the last thirty years, which has also been declared so by a court of law, honourable Member. In addition, you were suspected of giving money to independent Members to withdraw. So the fact that you're talking about election fraud, honourable Member, is quite facial toast and outrageous. Of course, Congressman Varju did not know what to say because he was an active participant, how could he have said something, that 192, most of the profitable public companies were being robbed at the time, and that talking about urinating from the Villa of Illőhegy was particularly amusing. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group, for two minutes.
u2021-04-29-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Universities receive the wealth, but you planted people who are friends of Fidesz, and in this sense do not represent Hungarian society, as they do with the media authority and all the others. You are doing one thing: every condition of exclusive power is increasingly being achieved, and you want to achieve only what you want to achieve in these universities, through these Curatorials. That is why what they are doing and how they are doing is unacceptable, and that is why we have spoken against it. You heard me, Congressman, yes, I'm saying that you claim that the people are here for you. After all, as I have just said, you have taken away the people, nationalised the traff system, the tobacco trade, then distributed, privatized, and even assured them that they would have to pay such high compensation if anyone dared to touch it or tried to touch it, which means that they created a very, most of them, a completely loyal ownership circle, which works as your local branches, and quietly gave them additional opportunities to the market, that besides the tobacco trade, the liquor trade appeared, and now we see the lottiers, gambling, are also moving in that direction. What else would you like to privatize, honourable Member? You're doing this. That's why what your prime minister said is true, not to look at what he says, but what they're doing. Thank you.
u2021-04-29-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to continue thinking for my fellow Member, Antal Csárdi. This bill is about ensuring that a group of legislation is designed in a cost-effective, transparent way, keeping its value, finally providing a solution to an old task. If you'll allow me, let me give you two practical experiences that I can read from this bill. I would like to recommend to all my fellow Members that 42/A. from § 42/F. Read the legislation by the end of the paragraph on what is literally written, whether it is the value, the property elements, what rules are there for handling them, because sometimes listening to the comments here, I cannot hear back these thoughts that we have heard here. One is the issue of control. It is in the legislation that public data requests can be taken into account at any time in this task, and on the other hand, SAO investigations, other supervisory investigations, government screenings and any kind of topics that are on the basis of the rule of law, will report to Parliament and present their report to Parliament at all times, which are assured and transparent. The other is the issue of wealth growth. Think back to the early '90s. Even then, companies from the past carried out the same process of asset management, and the new companies already established in Hungary and established in Hungary were already thinking about these principles with their own assets. Consider a method of inheritance, a procedure where, let's say, 50-100 small-value property is placed in the property of the Hungarian state. What do we do with it? Guard him? Do we store it? It's ruined. Should we pay the costs? We're spending public money on it. There may be an amendment to this law, my request to my fellow opposition Members to submit it, but it certainly contains a good and firm thought at last. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-21	Thank you very much. My colleague Szabó said it was cost-effective. Then why create a new organization? Why can't the current organization do that? They're contradicting themselves. Checking, my honourable fellow Member, and requesting public information? I'm telling you, where can we sue you as a congressman or any legal organization now? [[10.30]] We need to sue the state, and when we sue it, it's gonna take us years to find out why, what contracts, what contracts are behind the contracts. Seriously, Congressman, it's funny what you say about checking and cost-effectiveness. And the other, I can only hope that these assets, small-value assets, the assets between HUF 1-25 million, will be acquired primarily by local governments, local governments, and that they prefer local governments over church organizations and charities, and that will not happen... That is precisely the problem, my honourable fellow Member, is that it will start again, that you will decide which of the good local governments and which of them is not, and if the local government is not good, say, opposition, then it will be given to charities linked to Fidesz, or to the churches. I'm sorry. If these properties are given to the municipality, it will remain the property of the State, because the municipalities operate on state money. It doesn't make sense to us. If they can guarantee that they will say that they prefer that the municipalities receive these assets, then one wonders whether they may really be on the right path and will not distinguish, I say, between opposition and pro-government authorities, because that is not what we have seen in the past, and we have also seen since 2019, let us say that this has accelerated, how they punish opposition authorities, how they have stopped investments [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The ones that were supposed to be launched because there was no Fidesz mayor at the top of the district. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-22	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no further two-minute speeches are now possible, we will continue our work with speeches on a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2021-04-29-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to continue where I have left off the speakership and return to the draft law published in the presentation of the Secretary of State, let us make a few more remarks. So that's where I stopped being opposed to the transfer of assets to this company, NIS. As I said, here to deal with the accelerated demise of state IT tools in the environment, as I mentioned earlier, the electoral data is recorded, so why, fellow Members, do you want to support this? So you can't check anything? So you can get out of there? Mr State Secretary, I think that it is inappropriate to present this without the consensus of the parliamentary parties before the elections. This is an amendment to the conditions under the electoral law. It is true that you have also submitted the electoral law unilaterally, and that is why I say, for a very different reason than the fellow members of the Government say, yes, you committed election fraud in 2018, too. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] But the circumstances of this, I suppose, will sooner or later be an organization that will have the courage to examine what happened then, even for the sake of historical lessons. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Újpest.]] We do not agree that the possibility of simplified, uncontrolled privateisation of public property is thus created. We do not consider it justified, returning to my fellow Member here, that the heads of the State Audit Office should be extended to include new Vice-Presidents. These are the three points that I wanted to make here in the magistrate's office. As I said, here in the operation of the NISZ, in this electoral cooperation, if we go further in this, we will also find the 4iG that, as a company close to Lőrinc Mészáros, owns very large state orders, and in this way you cannot deny their existence too close to the electoral system, which raises new and new questions. It is obvious that the bill would want to deal with a review of the state's IT system for the 2022 parliamentary elections, let's say. A huge background IT system has been built, and the creation of conditions that allow, as I said, election fraud or the prevention of exposure, just by eliminating data. That is why we do not agree with the involvement of this organization. It is quite certain that the security of state assets will be damaged, and in a much broader way than at present, it will be possible to select state assets in a simplified way. And as I was saying, since you're going to determine what's going on in this circle in hindsight, according to the rules, from here on out, you may soon be giving away the Mátra Force. After the chicsuki had already been played, the beneficiary, loyal owners had already been given the opportunity to withdraw large amounts of money after this had been done, and after that the state had generously bought it back, but now they very much promised that a very green renovation would certainly begin. Well, thank you very much. Only with the four ten billion forints in front of him, you know, you should account for why it was necessary to give this to Lőrinc Mészáros, by otherwise causing environmental pollution. Therefore, this is the reason why the management, rapid sale and repurchase of state assets, if you resolve this in this way, well, the Hungarian people do not ask for it, and this is not necessary, and there is no need to create the conditions for this. The proposed scheme is clearly designed to make it easier to redirect public property to the private sector than before, but only to declare the target assets to be public assets in the system of rules that we do not yet know. So this is your idea, and you want to create this, and you want to be empowered to do so, that you will then, by means of a government decree, become very accustomed to this regulation in the last year, and then you will be able to continue with regulations. I believe that this must be clearly protested. So in this respect, in the company named by law, NISZ, as I mentioned earlier, the former audit of the State Audit Office found that there were a lot of inaccuracies. Why do they want to involve this organization anyway? I don't understand. I will quote from the audit report of the State Audit Office:. The separate accounting of the revenues and expenses of the public service activities defined in the Foundation's Document was not adequate. In the course of the net sales turnover and the accounting of material expenses, the information sheet provided for in the Internal Rules, including the accounting method and the reference to the ledger accounts concerned, was not used. As a result, the full distribution of the amount in the basic evidence could not be established. But I can continue, Mr. Secretary. They want to give this company rights to... It's in the report of the State Audit Office, led by you Fidesz President, but I can continue. And you want to give this organization a special responsibility, so that you don't have to draw up your internal regulations, which the SAO is complaining about here, so you don't have to make it in the course of this sale of assets. This is what you suggested and referred to in your exposé, and this is what is proposed in the draft law. [[10.40]] The draft law is 11. § 2 of the Act concerns judicial enforcement. In terms of implementation, you want to make a lot of noise here. How ridiculous that is, I would like to draw your attention to it with an example. Nearly four years, but I may already be in a lawsuit with the replacement fund on the road. As she said, there is a final, second-degree judicial decision to obtain or provide data of general interest. Honourable pro-government congressman, You, who claimed that it was only necessary to ask for it, are going on for the fifth year compared to the fact that in the foundation created by your prime minister, to which a very significant state revenue has been transferred, public money has also been issued by a court of law, these data have been refused to be issued for the fifth year, despite the court's decision. By the way, as regards court execution, there has been a bailiff for two years, and yet you have not been able to account for a total of HUF 100 million from the court-appointed report of nearly HUF 20 billion. Where's the rest of the money? So they can't account for it, especially if it was used for purpose. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You, who are doing everything here to provide state resources and state assets to worthy organisations, while making the circumstances of the transfer itself so that it is virtually uncontrollable, uncontrolled, or you do not want to control the Tao system itself, the greatest evidence of this is that you do not want to control it, in such circumstances, while you know that this is exactly the case, you are putting forward a salad law, which is also about judicial enforcement. Meanwhile, they know that there are people in the country with such political privileges, and they are not doing anything as democrats to change this situation. Well, why not? Because you are not, this is the simple situation, and it is not important for you that the interests of the people, the public interest, prevail, but again, by this law, you are serving private interests that you are trying to provide wealth, pardon, and provide wealth to people, organizations, from the point of view of loyal circles. These are the people you have to account for or face. Honourable Congressman, Let the face of those who support and help these loyal owners of Fidesz continue to rule around us! They are the ones who are yachting, with you in some places, they are the ones with girls, booze, drugs in their environment, they are the ones who fly, they are the ones who are helicoptering, they are the ones who carry the 25 million HUF watches on their hands. That's the condition that you create, that's what you do. That is why I can say that you are doing nothing but to a Democrat, and that is why they are not, and otherwise, against the interests of the Hungarian constitutionalism, against the interests of the Hungarian people, are making laws, whether it be the fate of the university foundations, let this be the law, in which it seems that even to the statement of the Secretary of State, if I go back, that I have to bow down for pennies, because this should also be settled in some way, to someone who wants to do so, and that this will be created in this form. Therefore, when the opposition adopted this law, I believe, as I have heard, on this basis, it classified it as unacceptable by you, T/15995. under the heading "Sustainable Management of State Property', a proposal to amend certain laws concerning the management of property. It is not acceptable, because if such a fine title is invented, the lie behind it is its internal rot, and therefore, with reference to the public interest, it must be rejected and should not be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Zoltán Varga applaud.]]
u2021-04-29-24	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, who also asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2021-04-29-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Bangóné pointed out an important question, so let us put this right, because it makes sense to answer that, so much less because it is sad that the opposition was able to set up a President of the Committee on the Budget, who said that the Mátra power plant was worth less than HUF 25 million, because there is a threshold here in the law, honourable Member. If that's what you think as an economist, you might want to give your degree back if that's what you think the Mátra Power Plant is worth. The provision of duties, Madam honourable Member, is the key word. I don't think it's possible to confront him because that's what you're asking us to do, to confront the churches. That's what you asked, that's what you're asking, that you're going to give the real estate to the local authorities against the churches. That is what you asked, honourable Member. Next to him! Service of tasks: who needs to perform the task, a public mission, a social task for the real estate, a local government, a church and a charitable organization, of course we do not confront it, there is not one behind the other, but everyone who performs the task has an advantage. In general, there is no competition, because in that area, in that property, let's say, the municipality operates the nursery or kindergarten, or there is a church kindergarten, there is no opposition. Of course, every municipality, there is no difference who is leading it, because this kind of portfolio cleaning of the state, which Mr. State Secretary has been talking about, is obviously the property that is in the territory of municipalities that are run by the mayor of the opposition, of course, if he so requests, he can have it, well, it is necessary to carry out the task. All I ask of you is that we do not oppose the churches, the charitable organizations, the local governments. It is not by accident that the list begins in the law, honourable Member, that the first place is the local government. In many places, municipalities do a lot of important tasks, and in many places they do so in state real estate. How much better it would be if I could do that in municipal property! So from now on, you can support the law, because the local authorities will, if they ask for it, receive it, and if the church or the charitable organization needs it, then of course. Of course, for political reasons, Congressman Varju has brought Mátrai Power Plant, everything. Congressman, let's get one thing straight. Is the SAO telling the truth or not telling the truth? Because I accept your criticism of what you've read here in your investigation into NIS. So let's also accept what you said about DK. [[Laszlo Varju: No, no!]] 'Cause it can't be that one of these tests is authentic and the other one isn't. DK stated that it was inaccessible to public money and on several occasions failed to present the accounts and performances behind the data in its management. Well, then let's accept that, Your Honour. Let's not pull out a piece of data that you like, and then we say it's a lie, one is written by experts, and the other is not. It is quite clear that I accept your criticism of the SAO's investigation, but then you accept your reservations about DK by the State Audit Office. Of course, obviously the examination of the State Audit Office is true. Of course, he did not respond to the election fraud of a thousand billion in 2006. We're used to you, when there's some sort of confrontation, and there's some facts, you let it pass your ear, just like you didn't answer the Újpest suspicion, and you're talking about election fraud. IT companies were mentioned here by the honourable Member. Well, there was a Welt 2000 Ltd., I don't know, you're familiar with the name, obviously, which is the biggest computer fraud in the history of the last 30 years. He signed a contract with Klára Dobrev as Deputy Chairman of the Development Agency, which also kept the source code in the company's possession. If a character had to be changed in the EU applications, the same company had to be assigned again, the same company had to be contacted again, and a small company in Budaörs became a billion-dollar company. Then, after 2010, where did your manager get a job? Well, at Altus, Your Honour. One of the biggest IT frauds, the abuse of EU money, your abuses started there. [[10.50]] Why didn't you investigate the background of the IT companies with such a big lead? Well, the manager got a job at Altus, Ferenc Gyurcsány's house fund after a government change took place in 2010. He signed a contract with Klára Dobrev to keep the source code and all the data, all the data on the use of EU funds, in the company's possession. The system of the whole EU funds has been privateised, privatised, not privatised, given from place to private company, when it is in Hungarian national interest that the tender data of EU funds, the tendering system, be Hungarian state-owned. You guys gave it to a private company from the start. And then you talk about IT companies and who's connected? After that, Csaba Czeglédy has been placed in the home office with Welt 2000 Kft. Your manager, along with a criminal? Let's not kid around here, Mr. Congressman. Of course, he speaks with a loud voice about the Mátra Power Plant. The Mátra Power Plant has nothing to do with the current bill, but nothing in the world, just because it wants to fill its speaking time and can't answer the accusations and the facts that have been said, because of course you know precisely that they will stand, they will stand the test of reality, they are exactly true, so you start talking about things that are not in any way present in the bill. The point is that small properties, which are currently costing the state a lot of money and costs, have a better place than those who, by the way, carry out public tasks, social community organisations, local governments, churches and charities. It is no problem that you do not support local governments, churches and charitable organisations, but we do support local governments, support churches and support charitable organisations, which is why we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We can now see this law as an asset relief announced here after the opposition of the pro-government representatives, which is about collecting a package of assets on the basis of the rules that we do not actually recognize, giving it to this organization and authorising it to be distributed by law to whom they see fit. I understand that they have not otherwise undertaken to do this without legal authority, because then they cannot refer to the fact that they have done this, but I think that with this solution they are doing something that cannot be supported. Honourable Congressman, What you are referring to is where your abuse began, and I can tell you that your abuse of all EU funds began when your first decision was to abolish the rules of conflict of interest of Members of Parliament in the tendering system. You have given yourself the opportunity, in particular, to benefit from this, in the face of the public interest, from the personal wealth of your own. You adopted this in 2010 among the first legislation, so let the face, honourable Member, who voted in favour of it, including you on this list, be ashamed of the consequences of the removal of this conflict of interest. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-29-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2021-04-29-29	Thank you very much, Mr President, I promise you that this will be my last comment on this subject. Congressman Nacsa, this isn't about handing over kindergartens and schools. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This is what he keeps saying in his comment that there are churches and municipalities with this law in schools and kindergartens [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Buildings!]] We're handing you over. Well, I'm sorry, we're talking about values between 1 and 25 million forints. Of course, there are other small settlements where they may still work in this value, although I would add that you can't build a market bathroom in less than HUF 25 million. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] He continues to say in his comments that there are churches and municipalities with this law schools and kindergartens (Lőrinc Nacsa: Buildings!) We're handing you over. Well, I'm sorry, we're talking about values between 1 and 25 million forints. Of course, there are other small settlements where they may still work in this value, although I might add that you can't build a market bathroom in less than HUF 25 million (Dániel Z. Karpát intervenes). Let alone a school or kindergarten, so let's stop. Under 25 million forints, he does not talk about handing over schools and kindergartens... (Lőrinc Nacsa intervenes. ) Congressman, I'm talking about what you said here. And I'll add [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I repeat once again, we are talking about the transfer of HUF 4 billion of state assets every year, that if I recall the Secretary of State, HUF 360 million in building assets, HUF 400 million in assets and HUF 140 million in company assets. This is not a negligible sum of HUF 4 billion. And I would like to add that I would only ask for a guarantee that there will be no distinction between right-wing or left-wing, opposition or pro-government authorities, and, as the Member said, if any of the buildings, say, in the area of the MÁV, what he said, a bacterial house, if I remember correctly, Mr Szabó, will be a priority for the local government, and I did not oppose the church or civil society. I just want to guarantee that it won't happen, like in the last ten years, that kissing organisations can come, kissing municipalities can come, and all the rest will not be taken into account. We have only made such criticisms because we are talking about state wealth, and the state wealth is not yours, Congressman, not mine, but the Hungarian people's. We cannot play with state wealth as if it were your property, although we have seen it in the last ten years not only against state wealth but also against European Union wealth. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And that's what we're protesting. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-29-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát..., pardon, Mr Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz Group. [[László Varju: Who is it now? Z. Carpathian Daniel: Which of us now?]] Mr Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz Group, if the Member wishes to speak.
u2021-04-29-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There are many arguments and counter-arguments here, but I would really like to say once again that all elements are strictly described in the law. I refer you to the opposition representatives at 42/H. The Commission notes in particular that there are rational economic arguments in favour of taking this step. And I've referred to the nice things in the '90s. And one more very important thing: the main aim is to sell these things, so the State in this legislation has set the objective of trying to offset the impairment resulting from depreciation, operation and maintenance by selling them. And besides, as an opportunity, if this is described as a public service, then it can be done there, and it can be a local government, a church and a charitable organization, it is listed. It's a rule of law. I was merely suggesting, Mr Varju, that it is in the law that these data can be obtained. I didn't think I'd get into a hornet's nest like this. I was just suggesting that the legal option remains to be respected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will now be here only to enable the party and the opposition to switch at a sufficient pace. You have the floor.
u2021-04-29-33	Mr President, Dear House, My problem with what my colleague Szabó said is that the text of the proposal specifically contradicts what you said, because it is literally stated that sales and free delivery are equivalent instruments. So the relation, the order you just said, unfortunately, does not apply in this proposal. But to me, the most irritating sentence is that the aim of quick exit, circumvention, sale, transfer, gifting is that these goals are ahead of the requirement of value-for-money. This is a supposition that, in the case of transactions that can be sold under market conditions, also open the door for the State to do things that are absolutely free of charge in the case of a 4 billion-dollar wealth. There has been a number of polemias about public funds. If I were my fellow pro-government Members, I would, however, be more restrained on this issue in a country where the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros loses a tender for public procurement is surprisingly below; then we read the news and see that his own son-in-law beat this good man in a tender. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] This is quite amazing news about banana public companies. I do not want the Hungarian economy or the supervision and spending of public funds to be dominated by this type of news, and I hope that this will not be the way next year, following the establishment of a national unity government. [[11.00]] And I am thinking not only of reducing single-playing public procurement, because here my fellow government members have often said that they think that in Hungary it has become less than I could dispute 15 years ago, but I am much more disturbed by family-type public procurement where there may be only two or three candidates, but in essence the same circle continues a shadow box that is more than transparent. We want to end this world. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-29-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-35	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to respond to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Szabó, and also to one of its elements. In this connection, I would like to ask you: when was the last time you submitted a request for information in the public interest to any organisation? [[Zsolt Szabó: Which one?]] He made his choice. Because the practice is that by the time you go through the path of asking for data in the public interest, with deadlines, it's often six months and a year, and I didn't say much about it. So I think if you consider this to be an effective instrument of control, then I have some bad news that this is not the least of it. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since the factions have made use of their two-minute speaking opportunities, I cannot give you another two-minute speech in this round. Congressman Zoltán Varga has spoken. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. Congressman, you have one option, according to the house rules, if you want to speak in a normal time frame. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2021-04-29-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. The thing is, I pushed the button because I was actually shocked at Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I was thinking that either he doesn't live in this dimension, or he sat on the Dakota horse. Because Lőrinc Nacsa was talking about state assets here with a pair of eyes. But I beg you, you've just sunk thousands of billions into private property. You should be glad that this building wasn't built by the national gasman, because this dome would fall on you. We're talking thousands of billions, man. Thousands of billions of dollars have now been taken out of state property. While you're concerned about the state's wealth, you're terrified of failure and fleeing the money. At some point, we Debrecen will wake up to the fact that the logo of the University of Debrecen will not be the usual logo, but a huge gas tap, because once it is saved for the foundations, it will appear in the pocket of Lőrinc Mészáros. You're talking about not having to worry here, because the law is laid down that everything here will be legal and good. The law also states that you shouldn't steal. In fact, it's also laid down in the Ten Commandments, I'd like to signal. And see where they're at. We're saying that you've read various cute little stories on Facebook many times, what people think about your wealth or even Lőrinc Mészáros. A post appeared that they dare not announce a bride dance because the bride is for sale, because by the time the groom, Lárinc Mészáros, buys it. So if you're someone, you can't talk about integrity, you can't talk about state property, and you can't talk about honor. Instead, they can talk about stealing, dishonesty, then call it girls, girls, cocaine, and public money. Okay? So I wouldn't say whores. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-38	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-04-29-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At 9:00 a.m., we started by putting forward a proposal for a law with professional content. Instead, we have a lively, polite, political debate. I'm sorry, I couldn't remember the name of the last speaker, but he was a worthy end to this morning. Because it is very difficult to argue with the fact that an opposition, whose natural task is to criticize the government, is a opposition whose natural desire is to become a government and to use all available democratic and parliamentary means, its most natural task is to criticize the government's proposals. This is, of course, done professionally at different levels. Some people are professionally closer to the topic, some people stand further away. But they can be polemicized, given fair answers, and discussed professionally. But against a hypothesis, contrary to wishful thinking, it is very difficult, in addition to making the acorn dream into a parliamentary debate, to stand up to a hypothesis, to accept it as a reality, and then to talk about how it is, and what the other wants to say is the truth. So, it's very difficult to argue with or argue with. At the same time, the government has a natural obligation to use the public of Parliament and the country to justify, defend, and not primarily to you, but to convince the people represented by you that the government's intention is adequate, clear and consistent with the objectives that the current government has promised its voters more than ten years ago. And one more thing. There was a lot of looking back. Some people come from entry into the Union, some from before. Unfortunately, I have an advantage over you, because I have 20 or 30 years. When you put it all in plural and I am the author, please do not put me in a position where I am forced to bring up the experience of my own life as a counterargument, let us say, based on the criticism of the ideas you represent or the bad experience that we all experience in our professional and political lives. I have never once said here in 22 or 23 years that my colleagues on the other side of Parliament are responsible for the expulsion of the family, because I know that they are not personally. Ideologies are responsible for it. I once didn't say they were responsible for 1956, for the hanged people and everything, because it was ideologies and not the people sitting here. Please don't bring up the basics of knowing you and everyone else is a thief, a robber, and so you're privatizing! But if you're gonna bring it up, I'm gonna have to refer to it because I've lived through it. I ask you not to refer to this, because only after the change of regime, honourable Members, where did the Hungarian steel industry go, where did the Hungarian brick and tiles industry go, where did the banks go, where did the power plants go, where did the suppliers go? ! So, we have a lot to throw in each other's eyes, but that's not what today's proposal is about, it's a professional proposal. And while we are at the presentation, I would like to inform Mrs Bangóné that she was not the rapporteur, but the government, and she just signed it. And not under the cover of night, I know that it was a poetic expression, but it did so within the time limit laid down by the house rules. That's why I'm telling you, I know the heat of the speech takes a lot of people, but let's just stay there. [[11.10]] There is one more thing that happened to almost all my fellow Members who spoke, and I have to say, I asked, too, because when I first read the draft, I didn't know either. The Teleki László Foundation Limited Liability Company was founded on 6 May 1994 by the Teleki László Foundation, so this abbreviation derives from the name of the company, the name of the foundation. After the end of the foundation, the company became state-owned on 30 March 2007 and as an empty company at the trustee, and indeed, as an empty company, it was not necessary to set up a new company, it was not necessary to expand it because it was also a criticism that we were expanding the number of companies to the world here, no, it is precisely that we are making an older, empty company suitable to perform these changed tasks as we hope. My colleague, Dániel Z. Kárpát, mentioned here that this eternal subject is that the state is a bad farmer, not a bad farmer, and in all numbers; I say this because this was mentioned by all opposition speakers. Please, what is much or what is little is an old philosophical problem. I'm sorry, I don't mean to be personal, but it's an old story that a hair on the head isn't enough and a lot of soup. So that many or few should always be compared. I think the congresswoman mentioned the 4 billion. I would like to ask you to compare this to 18 000 billion forints of state wealth, so that this 4 billion, I would like to say exactly, is divided into 33 thousand assets. So what we are talking about is that they really represent small value or real value in reality very rarely. Yes, in one small village there is a plot that is unfit for self-implantation, because it has no front width, it has 8 meters, it is now crooked, and there is a constant debate about who will mow it. There are millions of these, inherited as the ultimate heir to the state's legacy, we are talking about basically managing, guarding, and registering them in the first place. Some things come in all the time, the inheritance or, for example, the implementation elements for budgetary claims. The state doesn't want these, there was no intention, but whether you like it or not, it's coming in. Again, I won't debate your critical status and opportunities for a moment, but please don't get carried away from reality, facts, numbers, if possible. Several Members have mentioned who believes in the omnipotence of the market. I would ask my fellow opposition Members not to refer to this, because most of the first 5-6 years of parliamentary debates in the last 10 years have been about nothing but that the current government does not believe in the omnipotence of the market and believes that security of supply, affordability, accessibility is a state obligation that citizens and, by the way, economic organisations must be guaranteed. So this is not a market condition. There are things that the market has to do, there are places where the market has to prevail, and there are places where I think colleagues with more economic knowledge than I do call it a controlled market economy. Whether it's a new company or not, I hope I've been able to answer that. It has come up here, and I say it because Congressman Varju has also made a special speech on it, the job of the NIS. Again, I do not want to regret to say that my historical experiences and memories have been referred to the fact that here, when, what the available IT system was used for, and who tried to influence such election results successfully or unsuccessfully, but let me say here, for the record, that there were elections in 2002, there were IT systems, and then, well, they were used in a debatable manner. I am only saying this because it is not good to recall them in this way, because these are not the subject matter of the present proposal and not its aims. In this case, the bill provides that assets that are currently owned and operated by National Infocommunications Services Ltd., NISZ, are placed in the management of NISZ's assets, so that the assets concerned are not excluded from the state portfolio, they are not excluded from the public supervision circle, only the trustee tasks are assigned to NISZ, who is operating these things now, but they must now request permission from the owner for all purchases, for all sales, for all scrappings. We think that's what they're doing. They have the same custody system. Finally, one more, just because he showed up several times. Please, those public bodies which have control tasks do their job, check their work, and include their findings in a record and decision, receive them with a correction deadline, and if they do so, these errors can be regarded as corrected by the State Court of Auditors. Since the State Audit Office was established after the change of regime, this is the procedure for everyone to do their job. Neither the finding of errors nor the correction of them, I think, is capable of drawing any more far-reaching legislative conclusions. I therefore ask my fellow Members, in particular, that where they consider it appropriate, they submit the amendments, and with or without them, please read the draft once more, on the basis of all these comments, and, if possible, support them, or if they cannot do so, I have heard a half sentence here, perhaps by abstaining to indicate their intention to agree with a part of the draft and to accept some of it. I feel that this is a fair one, to say the least, a faction post. Mr President, I thank you for your patience. Thank you for your opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-40	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. It's refreshing in the House. I feel like it's the human voices. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to take over certain home-building state tasks by charitable organisations will follow up until closure. The Government's referral is T/15986. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national assets, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-29-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the economic crisis that started in 2007 and 2008, a significant proportion of property owners with foreign currency loans were caught in a foreign exchange trap. [[11.20]] The then government did not pay due attention to the situation of foreign exchange creditors, which caused many to lose their housing properties. On 30 May 2011, the government announced the establishment of the National Asset Manager in order to purchase the housing of the most socially dependent lenders. From the start of the program until 31 December 2019, with the use of budget resources of more than HUF 143 billion for the purchase and investment of property, the National Asset Management Ltd. purchased 37 635 units of real estate, with the result that some 155 thousand people escaped their multimillion-dollar debt by continuing to stay in their homes. With the help of the National Asset Management Programme and the increase in the performance of the economy in recent years and the improvement of the labour market situation, the situation of the majority of tenants has stabilised, so that they are once again able to ensure that their property is fully maintained and maintained. The government's goal is to make sure that every family can live in their own home. To this end, the proposed legislation, which was submitted and adopted at the end of 2018, allowed the tenants concerned to become owners of their former apartments and houses again under very favourable terms of repurchase under the NET programme. The success of the measure is confirmed by the fact that nearly 29 thousand families have declared that they want to buy their property back. Charity organisations have extensive experience in the long-term mentoring and assistance of families in difficulty participating in the National Instrument Management Programme. In recognition of the social service activities of these organisations for society, in particular for families in difficulty, the government supports certain public tasks of the programme by the Maltese Reformed Community Housing Fund NKft. to be taken over by the European Commission. The aim of the bill on the take-over of certain public housing tasks by charitable organisations is to mentor the tenants participating in the asset management programme, to manage the outstanding claims of the participants by the State, and to bring the problems of tenants and in-depth contributors who remain in difficulty to the organisation that effectively carries out local needs and problems management, which can also carry out social tasks related to the person concerned. The tasks may be taken over from 1 January 2022 under a public service contract. The tasks to be performed by the MRI Community Housing Fund are, on the one hand, the implementation and maintenance of social housing management, the performance of tasks arising from the rental of real estate and the provision of social and assistance services for tenants participating in the National Asset Management Programme. On the other hand, it is responsible for carrying out the tasks of the National Asset Management Programme's detailed arrangements, the management of claims and the social, assistance, service and mentoring activities for the participants. In the event of the adoption of the bill, on the 1st of January 2022 property for housing purposes in the property management of the Teleki László Foundation and in the property management of the Teleki László Foundation Property Management and Recovery Limited Liability Company may be owned free of charge by the MRI Community Housing Fund NKft., subject to the existing lease rights, with the transfer of the rights and obligations arising from the existing lease. The conditions for free acquisition are set out in this bill, and the Parliament authorises the Government to list the properties concerned in a public decision. On real estate property, the community housing fund carries out social housing management and maintains, carries out the tasks arising from the lease of the property and, as I mentioned earlier, carries out social and assistance services for tenants participating in the National Asset Management Programme. Dear Parliament, Based on all this, I ask that T/15286. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2021-04-29-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-04-29-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, the bill before us means the closure of an old debt, an old system, which I think is a good solution for the task. Transferring the state of home creation tasks to charitable organisations is a process that we started in 2010. The person who was here at the Hungarian Parliament knows very well how many times, in what order we discussed, we talked about laws that supported the help of authentic, foreign exchange-credited, troubled families. At that time, the number of supported, assisted families was still ten thousand, and the wealth that was involved here we could talk about ten billion fortunes and debts. Today, thank God, as a result of the blessed activity, this affects some 27 thousand families, to which this bill is a solution and we hope that it will work in the long term. This 27,000 families are socially in a very bad situation. It is absolutely necessary to find a solution that works in the long term. Well, what's the background? If you are in some areas of Hungary, where people have taken on a very large share of their own property, you often meet families who tell about their daily problems and who can be talked to. For example, a series of settlements along Tarna, where I often ask mayors of municipalities that, if you had the opportunity to take over these properties, would you take over, there is a candidate, whether in the field of public service or on a market basis, who is involved in this. Well, in the case of municipalities over the past period, there has been a tendency to provide social housing in a different way rather than social housing, whether with housing support or with settlement support to these families. This 27,000 families are not few people whose problems need to be solved. We are all familiar with Malta's activities, as we often meet them for various services, whether in problematic settlements like Tarnabod, where all tasks are performed, but also in other public services. I think they are a guarantee that this system, this bill, will be a workable, good bill. For my part, I am grateful that they will undertake this task, and they will do so. Well, what does that mean exactly? Mr Secretary of State has already said that he has listed the tasks that this entails. The point is, the terms don't change. They can perform this service under the same or better conditions for two years. I know that Maltese people also have ideas about the provision of tasks that will improve this situation and even create new housing systems and new homes for those in need. This legislation is a guarantee for those who have decided to buy back so that they can go through with the process, or a guarantee for those who want to use their properties for rent. [[11.30]] Socially, it definitely means a strong safety net for them in the future. The other is that he has previously participated in the asset management programme, he has agreed to some structure and provides long-term guarantees to families requiring this maintenance, which is essential for the future. The point is to create conditions and parameters for them to provide them with. Of course, it is also important for me to have a non-profit nature of the activity that comes in as revenue, it must be used to provide property, movable property, maintenance and social care. However, this amount is limited. To complement this, as we talk about public service provision, they can use social and financial instruments that allow this non-profit organisation to maintain this system in the long term. Once again, I think it is very important that the amounts here must be spent on improvements, and in the case of families with disabilities, we can ensure that we go on with the same conditions and parameters. Twelve years have passed since the first legislation. This is a piece of legislation, like the others, that guarantees and ensures a good, usable and operational solution to this problem. From 1 January 2022, we will be able to put in place a new system to ensure the housing of families living in these disadvantaged, poor settlements to whom this has not been secured and could not guarantee or implement it. I welcome and welcome the legislation, and I trust that this House sees the positive thinking that is the solution for these families. I ask this House to support the adoption of the legislation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-29-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-45	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to ask my fellow Members in advance, with whom we have worked in separate chariot camps, but since 2010, we have been working in an institution, so that they do not take what I say personally as the following. This is about a system, a system that I believe to be rotten and cruel, and this is demonstrated in an amazing way by the case of foreign exchange creditors as a kind of veterinary horse. In the introduction, the beginning of the story will be dated from 2010, referring back to the government that I had not otherwise admired before, as far as the issue of foreign exchange lending is concerned, but the beginning of the flow chart has been forgotten. 2001, fellow Members. Think back to who was on the government in 2001 and to think about how, during the then Fidesz government, it was possible that the ill-developed mutation of unilateral treaty amendments was allowed through the Hungarian national economy by the then leadership! So the prehistoric sin, that's when the spirit got out of the bottle, that it was unilaterally possible to modify the terms of the contract from then on in the way it couldn't have been before. Then, in the two thousand years, no doubt, when the Swiss central bank warned, when it was already visible in the money market that the exchange rate had been released, the stock of loans had risen to an unsettling level, and the necessary steps had not really taken to alleviate the problem. But the dampening couldn't have prevented it from going down. You could have prevented it from happening with a fair settlement law. Since 2011, I think that the Secretary of State could finish my sentence by now if I stopped halfway around it so that we could hold the forinting of loans at the rate of admission as the only fair solution. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if someone has taken on their so-called loan and I have to add it to it because it is a faulty financial product: if someone has taken on their so-called loan at 160 HUF, then why did they have to face a HUF 256 exchange rate because of your forints on the market, and why did they change their credit? After that, they will tell us that they have returned a thousand billion-dollar sum to the foreign exchange lenders. The fact is, if 2000-3000 billion were unduly taken from these people and this could have been returned with the forints at the time of admission, then the agreed return of one third of the stolen property should not be a success! So let's not put this on the tableau like we've sorted out the situation of these people. I started with my fellow Member, Mr Szabó, on the Consumer Protection Committee, and I think it was a good-tempered professional committee where these problems could be discussed not only by scratching the shell of the apple, but also in other committees at a serious level. We also agreed, we could agree that, in itself, people would get out of their asset management system or survived this market forintification because the family had thrown the reserve together, that doesn't mean that these families would be in a just situation. But let's look at the luckiest ones, the final payments. Let's just say not only the small family, but three generations were able to add up the amount of the final repayment somehow, it doesn't mean that these families were in a just situation. This, my fellow Member, means that they have survived this situation. I understand that they don't show up here in asset management statistics, but that doesn't mean these families have been looted. I find it particularly wrong to be told that we should try to look at it as a positive solution for an almost unknown charity to receive former asset management rentals, thus giving it different tasks. I can even believe that for a year or two, people living and living in a difficult line will not be in a worse position, faced with amazing difficulties than they are now facing. But that's not the answer to their situation. Let's not forget one important difference. So far, the state or a public organization has guaranteed these people their position of security of housing or everyday safety. Now, instead of the state or a public organisation, a non-profit external organisation will do this. So you have also outsourced this task, as national assets are outsourced to foundations, so this task for the survival of Hungarian citizens is now being outsourced to one of them with a much weaker safety net than the state. Moreover, the advantage of the public body is that it worked from above with an open hat, as we have talked about for many years with the Secretary of State, and we have agreed that the hat opened from above is good. So if you run out of your annual budget, let's replace it with the budget. In the case of this non-profit organisation, once again, the safety net is weaker, as we cannot capitalise this protection with an amending budget. So, as a solution, I cannot look at what is ahead of us, but rather at the outsourcing of an important state task; if you will, the responsibility will be shifted by the government of Hungary. We also see that there is a steady government intention to beat old asset management apartments to the ground, as it is in the draft budget that HUF 3 billion is expected from the sale of former foreign exchange-credited apartments this year and even 500 million from rent. This also shows how much is left in the portfolio and how much has already been sold. What I do have to blame you for as a historical crime is that the asset manager is not the worst idea, I would add, properly started with some 30,000 real estate in Hungary. This would have been an excellent base for a national rental program at the state level. So I think that the stock of this should have been kept and expanded. In the first place, I would have given back my property to the foreign exchange loaners, but we are not in the government, we can only make proposals for fine-tuning from the opposition. But I'm sure this property shouldn't have been dumped, but, where appropriate, expanded, in addition to the fact that it should have been constantly returned to the affected, and should have been involved, let's say, in the vacant property, enough to create a national-sized rental program. I am pleased that 90 percent were able to recover ownership of their own property with a very great effort. I would also add that if we looked at their net positions and how much they paid for the repayment of the defective product, we would still find that they had paid an unrealistic amount, and in many cases a fair settlement would have brought out that they had paid the bank a long time ago, and the bank used their money for free, which it did not return. In many cases, this would be the result of the calculation. But I don't want to bring a negative uproar around the fact that these people were able to buy the property back, but I want to say that I would have liked it even more if they had gotten it back after a fair settlement after they drew a normal balance and didn't have to buy it back. The 30,000 apartments were obviously not meant to be sustainable by taking people's property, but by constantly expanding real estate by looking around half a million vacant properties in Hungary. [[11.40]] Obviously, no one wants to touch private property, perhaps not even the government, although more and more of these little attic sweeping, socialist-like proposals are more communist-like, but let's leave the actual political innuendo. Because there are municipal and state-owned vacant properties, we're talking about a half-million-dollar scale, so we're talking about 500-550 thousand real estates, which, if we take out the private property, even if we just renovate one-tenth of it or put it in a viable state, a national rental program could start with tens of thousands of apartments. I would add that this does not remove your responsibility for building a great deal of rentals in a market where there is a shortage of supply. That's why it really hurts me that even though the government has brought in its idea of rust zones, none of this has actually been achieved. This story moved in two directions. On the one hand, hula-hopping and slaloming with preferential housing VAT, which is introduced, abolished, introduced, abolished, and now re-introduced, is announced as a kind of novum or a brilliant market-supplier idea; it completely destroyed the market's intention to invest in rust zones, which, if they had done so, would not have been a guaranteed rental. So we would've liked this in a different way. Unfortunately, if it is a rust zone, we cannot miss the Chinese university, where we see that a Chinese megacredit, Chinese migrant workers, the Hungarian taxpayer's money, would like to introduce an institution with a very strange ideological background, in such a way that your market experts have acknowledged that a Corvinus or a Technical University, such an institution does smoke students from excellent Hungarian universities. So in a relatively narrow market, unfortunately, this is a serious disadvantage for other Hungarian institutions as well. But it's another matter of business. Overall, I would therefore like to say that, in the long term, a housing programme with a social leg, but not a social programme, a market-based programme, but, let us say, with an Austrian, German social point system, could prevent long-term problems. The same social policy aspects could be implemented there in such a way that Hungarian young people can buy their rentals on a market basis at cost in a few years' time. In this way we would save them the 8-10-15 years of being a bank loaner in an apartment; we could keep Hungarians working in strategic sectors at home, so that a nurse, a child psychologist or even a child psychologist can obviously advance in the point system; thirdly, it would provide continuous orders to Hungarian businesses, thus creating a multiplicative effect on the market, bringing all the tax forints placed there back into the budget within a few years. Such a programme would therefore be necessary; if this were to be done, it would not be necessary to cosmeticise, outsource previous public tasks and the associated activities. And one more thing, though, I have to mention three as I look at my paperwork, but first things first. On the one hand, in the middle of the crisis, enforcement bans, 33 percent and 50 percent bans continued to spin. I would like to suggest to my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, that you look into the number of tens of thousands of people affected by the remains of the National Asset Manager, which are subject to these bans. Because if the Secretary-General and the Secretary of State finally took my advice and carried it through that, at the minimum wage level or even up to the guaranteed minimum wage or small pensions, enforcement bans could not be imposed, especially in a crisis situation, then these people could be given real air and relief. Let's just leave it at that, if we look at the background of these executive demands, then what do we get, because it's not much and it's not nice. I'm sure the beauty would be the less. But these people could be relieved of the undue burden. On the other hand, there is the private institution, which I do not like, but with a new type of solution, we could provide financial and legal assistance free of charge to our countrymen in trouble and debt spirals, who are also mentioned here in the proposal. If we complement this with a . walk away, so the solution that is known overseas is that if the credit has increased, with an agreement, if, say, the property has already been lost, you will release that debtor, so you will not demand any more millions, tens of millions, then again we have freed thousands, tens of thousands of our countrymen from the trap. Thirdly, there is a serious professional debate about the moratorium on eviction. You may know and see that the epidemiological emergency, no matter how many waves it has, will surely stay with us for months, and will be gone; they have said that there will be masks in the summer as well. Although I am very confident that the various indicators will finally start to decline and that our lives will finally be in a tolerable position, the health and safety of our fellow countrymen will be guaranteed. However, in a few days, the eviction moratorium will expire. In a few days. Parallelly, there are several petitions on this subject and on the subject, my proposal is clear, Mr Secretary of State, to extend the eviction moratorium with a stroke of a pen, a motion until the end of the emergency. It should not be the subject of professional lawyers' debates that it will now expire on the last day of April or in the middle of May, until you have extended an extraordinary situation or even when; they declare that executives are not prepared to take property belonging to Hungarians in the middle of an epidemic, because this would be called attempted murder. You mustn't allow that. We must stand together, regardless of the muscles, political and party positions, so that Hungarians cannot be evicted in an epidemic situation. We'll be on the street, we'll be in the field, we'll try to provide legal aid, but it's not our job, Mr. Secretary. They therefore warrant that you Hungarian people are on the government, you can not take action in the middle of an epidemic. I think it could be a national minimum even in this extremely difficult political situation. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-29-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, allowed himself only two or three sentences of actual political reference, so I will allow myself to do so, and I will not deal with the actual policy in the rest. A political-history moment, a story of progress, as my fellow Member described the violent attacks of recent years, the bad policy of the governments between 2002-2010, because I remember sitting in the box as a colleague when Dániel Z. Kárpát violently insulted the bad policy of the Gyurcsány governments on this issue as well. Now he's done it by saying that, well, it's not the closest government to his heart, and he's skipped over the fleeting eight years that, for example, was the most tragic eight years in Hungarian history on the issue of foreign exchange lending. That's all the congressman took care of it this time. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: I also mentioned the Swiss central bank!]] I would like the position of the Member and his party to be coherent, because he has here a proposal to extend the eviction moratorium here to the epidemic situation on the grounds of an emergency, because we know that certain restrictive measures will remain with us even longer, and that we all want to achieve a state that you call a level that you can tolerate, and his party is constantly talking about, and then comes the bill that there is no need to prolong the emergency and that you will not support the extension of the emergency. Congressman, this is very important that you try to make your party's position more coherent, because you know exactly that in 2006 left-wing government actors and left-wing economists argued that it is good that there are foreign exchange loans, honourable Member, that is what the left-wing government actors said in 2006 because they will not believe it! smoothing down consumption due to restrictions, otherwise falling. This is what they claimed, a literal quote: smoothing the austerity. 2006 wasn't a crisis anywhere! At a time like this, Congressman Varga would jump to see what a huge financial crisis had hit Hungary in 2008. In 2006, it was said that foreign exchange loans were needed because of restrictions, because they smooth domestic consumption. So what hypocritical and vile sentences these are from left-wing government players, because we know exactly what happened at the time: because of the government's struggle with the central bank, because of the government's political considerations, foreign currency lending was released [[Zoltán Varga: You introduced him!]] While economists, the Financial Organization's State Inspectorate, kept warning you that there was going to be a huge problem. Then, in 2011, when we started liquidating foreign exchange loans, what did you say? He told us not to touch him, warned the government not to touch the issue of foreign exchange lending, because it could ruin the market. Even in 2011, your men, offshore knights, defended this harmful construction, this harmful institution, by insisting that it stays here with us and warned the government not to touch this issue in any way. [[11.50]] We know exactly what led to the spread of foreign currency lending: you practically abolished the family support system before 2010. The housing discount, the favourable housing loans, the housing benefits, the family tax reduction, the shortening of the duration of the child, Congresswoman, all of this has contributed to the fact that the families were driven into foreign exchange loans when the Socpolt or the half-socillion or the favourable housing loans were pulled over by you in a noble simplicity and led out of Hungarian financial practice. They left home creators unaided and drove them into risky foreign exchange loans. This led many to lose homes for their housing. After 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government took a number of measures to help those in distress. We may have a debate, honourable Member, with Dániel Z. Karpát, on a regular basis, and we are debating this: it was enough, it was good, but only the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken measures on this matter, effective and rapid measures, the whole Commissioner. After all, we closed the currency-loaning era unleashed by the Balliberal Government, introduced the exchange rate barrier, and allowed the end-payment, and the bank settlement also took place. As a result of the forinting, in 2015 retail foreign exchange loans disappeared almost entirely from the Hungarian market. In 2009, their share of total retail credit was above 70 percent, and now it has fallen to around 1 percent. 70 percent of foreign exchange loans were in the Hungarian residential loan portfolio in 2009, and Mrs Bangóné sighed loudly at this time, but at that time I did not see her protest on Kossuth Square against the harmful measures that your family friends had taken here in Parliament. [[Interventions from the benches of MSZP and DK.]] With this series of measures, more than one million families have otherwise been saved. The National Asset Management Programme was the tool to help the most in trouble, as a new measure, in which nearly 38 thousand homes were protected overall. With the help of the National Asset Management Programme: some 155 thousand people escaped their multimillion-dollar debt by continuing to stay in their homes. The situation of the majority of tenants has stabilised and those affected have been given the opportunity in 2019 to re-ownership of their former home. The property portfolio of the National Asset Management Programme has been significantly reduced as a result of the re-purchased real estate, leaving public tasks for two groups after the closure of the programme, as well as public responsibility to protect the housing of these two groups: on the one hand, those who buy their homes back, including 22 800 families, and on the other hand, those who opt for the lease contract, 4620 families. The current bill supports the transfer of certain public tasks of the National Asset Management Programme by the MRI Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, which is backed by a large charity whose work I believe you cannot doubt and you cannot attack. According to this, the MRI Community Housing Fund is NKft. The tasks to be performed by the National Instrument Management Programme will include social housing management, social assistance services for tenants participating in the National Instrument Management Programme, the performance of the participation arrangements of the National Instrument Management Programme, debt management and social, assistance, service and mentoring activities for participants. The tasks will be carried out under a public service contract. On the basis of the proposal, on the 1st day of January 2022, owned by the Hungarian State and owned by TLA Asset Management and Useful Ltd. Property for housing purposes in the management of property may be transferred to the MR Community Housing Fund NKft. free of charge by transferring rights and obligations arising from existing leases. The proposal sets out the conditions for free ownership and the Parliament authorises the Government to fix the properties concerned in a public decision. The proposal also sets out the detailed rules for the real estate affected by the transfer and rental rights. The KDNP fraction can support the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-04-29-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Nacsa said in advance that he would spend only a few sentences with Daniel Z. Carpathian. Compared to this, we heard about the law for up to two minutes, six and a half minutes and almost all he cared about was the opposition. Reason for the proposal, let me read from the draft law: . Recognizing the activities and services of charitable organisations for society, especially for families in difficulty, this law supports certain public tasks of the National Asset Management Programme by the MRI Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Kft. to be taken over by the European Commission. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, in this explanation, one could assume that we are talking about several organizations, and then more charities will receive state real estate or property purchased by the asset manager, but then, if we continue to read the draft, we will realize that we are talking about a single organization, a charitable organization. But then I think that my fellow Members and fellow opposition Members will also ask the question that you talk about this organisation as if everyone in this House, in this Chamber, should know who we are talking about. But we have no idea who we're talking about. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Because neither the draft submitted by the Minister does include who is the owner; even if we open the register, we can't find this nonprofit organization, I hope now... And don't be mad at him, maybe you know who we're talking about and who we're talking about, and I hope you'll tell me who's behind this, who's behind it, to calm us down, and then maybe we should change the introduction, because we're not talking about charitable civil society organisations, we're talking about one non-profit organisation. When we talk about the government's role in helping the fallen, so to speak, we always talk about a lot of organisations, local governments, NGOs, the state itself, child welfare services; we can include a lot of organisations. And now we're saying that once again, the government is handing over such a task to a nonprofit organization. Then we can say what we have said many times as criticism in recent years about the state of the social care system in Hungary; and how it should be developed in Hungary, what tools should be developed precisely for the social care system, which should, let us say, help families who are in a situation where, let us say, after their falling credit, they are in very, very difficult financial conditions, even if they were to lose their homes. We know very well that a lot of people have lost it, and that's what public supply organisations, the social care system itself, were for, among other things, helping these Hungarian families. We have made a lot of criticism over the past few years about how the government should intervene in helping the social care system. We have made a lot of amendments on the part of the opposition, and allow me, fellow Members, to say that in many cases we have made good proposals. In many cases, in agreement with the profession, we have tabled the amendments requested by the profession, and we have seen that just as in other cases, you do not care that, say, the profession is asking for these amendments, or perhaps we see these problems ourselves, you can say by almost 100% that these amendments have been swept off the table. It can also be seen that this transferred task to this non-profit organisation is not only about the transfer of these properties, but also about the reimbursement of the costs due to the operation of this organisation by the State. It would also be nice to see that they have planned costs, and how much public support this civil society organisation will receive to carry out this task at all, because it should essentially receive something for this; it is also included in the draft that it will receive reimbursement for this. I'm going to have to go away for an hour, but I'm going to listen to Mr. Secretary of State's reply online about how much this amount will be, whether it will change on an annual basis or how the extra support will be established for this organisation. [[12.00]] It would be very good to know that we are actually stopping there, that we are talking about this one organization, or, as stated in the explanatory statement, that many organisations may be involved in helping these families. We're talking about an important task, I'm just saying that the introduction was about more charities, and in the meantime, we're talking about just one organization under the law. I hope and do not want to repeat what the speakers before me have said, that Mr Secretary of State will give a reassuring answer, tell us what this organization is connected to, which large organization, what we need to know about the ownership circle or the operating circle, at least we should be smart; let us go out of this House with complete information about who will operate it, how it will work, and how much extra resources this organization will receive from taxpayers' money to basically carry out this task. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-50	Thank you very much for Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's speech. With all due respect, my fellow Members, Mr Fónagy State Secretary, the guests, and I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the DK Group, the lead speaker of DK.
u2021-04-29-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I do not want to repeat the questions or sentences of the speakers before me either, but I do think that we are all in the same river in this matter. According to the proposal, some of the state tasks of the National Asset Management Programme in the future will be the somewhat mysterious, MR Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Kft. He'll take over. And as Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has already referred to this, the title of the bill speaks of charities, but it turns out that this is probably just one charity. And here, I apologize to all of you so inevitably, and now I apologize for reminding you of Jenő Mystery, where everyone talked about the great Levin, but no one knew who the great Levin really was. So here, too, you talk about this nonprofit, as if we should know about it, and even here in the speeches, that we may be a little ashamed that we do not know, but we really do not have any information about the owner, or the capital, or even according to the Ministry of Justice's records, and we do not even find anything about it on the civil information portal. So I think the least we can do at this point is to get an idea of who we're talking about either from the proposal, from the bill or even from the introduction of the bill. Which is very interesting, and I must go a little further with two sentences, because the National Asset Manager was created by the government in 2011, primarily to save fallen foreign exchange credentials, and let me say a few words here, because my fellow Member Nacsa has taken the fate of foreign exchange loans to the eyes of the previous government. You know, Congressman, the problem is, or maybe it's a good thing that you guys have a long history. Debrecen, in this long past, is a great fellow Member, if all is true, Lajos Kósa, perhaps you know who I'm talking about. Lajos Kósa was the mayor of the city of Debrecen during that period. Now, he is the man who, on the one hand, managed to knock down the forint with one sentence, and I may not be far from reality, but a lot of people then thought about whose business it could be, and how much they won on that one sentence, but probably a few years later we'll get a clear picture of it as well. But it is certain that as mayor of Lajos Kósa Debrecen, as the parliamentary representative of Fidesz, it was the one who introduced the city of Debrecen into a currency-credited spiral, most likely by ordering it from the leaders of his own party, because this is what we have seen in all the large cities of Fidesz. No one stood, no left-wing member of the government stood over the head of Lajos Kósa, and twirled his ears in order to take on a foreign currency loan, Mr. Dear Member, Mr. Mayor. And I would go on: Lajos Kósa bought a complete bus fleet in 2008 by knowing that the bus rentals were being paid in foreign exchange loans, and that even the city of Debrecen had concluded an unbelievable non-advantage agreement, which we will eventually investigate, that the municipality of the city of Debrecen has assumed from the company whose head is now most likely to be at least one of the leaders of the Debrecen University Foundation in various press reports, taking on the loan from this company that the city of Debrecen will stand for any currency losses. Then, to talk about who was interested in foreign exchange credit and who introduced the cities into a currency-loan spiral is absolutely clear. Go in front of the mirror and look inside. It was you, sanda and sneaky political interests. [[Nacsa Lawrence points to the speaker.]] But let's get back to the original proposal. What we see is that the National Asset Manager was created in 2011, and it was quite clear here, and I cannot deny it for a moment that, according to the scheme at that time, the asset manager was able to offer their apartment to the asset manager, which they bought from them, and the former owners could stay in the apartment as tenants. It is also true that a lot of people later bought it back, they were able to buy back this apartment, it is a very positive thing. The negative side of this, its shadows, has been said by my better fellow Member, and I would not repeat that. However, we do know that the asset manager was terminated last year, and the owner of the apartments remaining as a lease has been the National Asset Manager since then, if all is true. And this property will now be given to the large Levin known or unknown MR Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Kft., which is included in this bill. But the bill doesn't tell us how many apartments, what value they give free of public property to the mysterious and unknown company, but we do know very well and we already know that, in addition to getting the property for free or getting the property for free, it is reasonable to assume that the state pays them well, as the proposal states that the company is entitled to the compensation provided for in a public service contract. And then let's see what else we know. 'Cause we already know pretty much what we don't know. We basically don't know anything. What we do know is that a vast mass of wealth disappears from under the eyes and hands of the state. However, we also know that data has already been released that 4600 apartments remain in state ownership as the asset manager's legacy, and then a tiny math will follow here, because if we multiply these apartments by the estimated average value, this should be 45-50 million HUF per apartment on an ex-absolute basis, and we are talking about 200 billion HUF worth of wealth here. And after that, the idea will inevitably appear in this man, because we are beyond the biggest business that you have done in this cycle with foundational outsourcing, that perhaps the purpose of the bill is to re-enact this considerable public wealth into private hands unknown to us. And this fits perfectly with the trend, the practice that you now have in action in almost every bill, to create an escape plan in the event of an election defeat. They're saving huge state assets, creating a new alternative state. [[12.10]] I am thinking here quite clearly of saving universities to trust foundations and of investments and other concepts that are of major national importance. So, in this form, this is a very interesting bill, I look forward to this explanation. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-04-29-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I believe that there must be some kind of blessed moment here in Parliament, because there has been an extremely constructive set of opposition contributions so far. I disagree. Technically, there's nothing going on here but a public task for a non-fairly written character: public task outsourcing. It is worth saying here that I cannot tell you how many times we have proposed, my colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát, myself, but I also think that the Socialist Party was extremely active in creating a rental program. The only answer you've ever had was that you only consider property to be appropriate. I think that, although Lőrinc Nacsa is not here, I would just like to remind everyone, just so that it is included in the report: foreign currency lending is the 2001 XCIII. Act made it possible, and in 2001 the Prime Minister was called Viktor Orbán, and the President of the Central Bank was called Zsigmond Járai. I think that this debate, who, when, how, I think we can end it at this point in peace. I think that they have a much greater responsibility for how you have tried, for example, to offer an international comparison hand to those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. In this regard, I think it is worth citing a decision by the Constitutional Court of Croatia in February this year, who gave the debtors the truth in the case of seven affected banks, which, by the way, reduced their debt by 50-70 percent. Yeah, it's in Croatia, in Croatia, where the state hasn't been occupied like you do here. Think about the members of the Constitutional Court, how they were chosen, what their past is, these respected lawyers. I think it's worth examining, because if we look at this story, we're going to have a very harsh image in front of all of us. The OTP branch bank in Croatia is also part of this story. So today it is that a Croatian foreign exchange loaner has to pay back significantly less than the Hungarian customer of the Hungarian OTP. Please, this is how you represent the interests of this layer. It's crazy. But what did you do? As regards the previous bill, I said that, as a result of your social policy, there is an existential gap in Hungarian society today. I said, and I believe that now that the wealthy have been given more, and that they have taken more of our fellow countrymen on existentially weaker legs. To prove this, and I am still talking about your solution to foreign currency lending, there are two laws governing the resolution of foreign currency lending under your leadership: one is final repayment and the other is forinting. Let's see what the final payment has done. For our fellow countrymen who had enough money in their pockets to pay off their entire outstanding debt, they were able to withdraw from the foreign exchange loan at a reduced rate, with reduced costs, right, you give it to those who already have it, because they have less money, they have their loans on a market basis, thereby adding concrete to the loss that the entire banking system has given them, by the way. I think, well, that's not a crime, that's a sin. Ladies and gentlemen, You then agreed with the EBRD, in which you agreed that the Hungarian government would not make a decision or introduce a rule that could negatively affect the profitability of the Hungarian banking system. In the name of a lot of foreign exchange-crediters, I say thank you very much. And don't take that literally, and that's a quote. You betrayed these people! And the fact that after that... how did you put it, Secretary of State, that now there are only thirteen people involved? It does not mean that so many people were injured, but that so many people were tried by the Government of Hungary to help. Ladies and Gentlemen, The thing is, I haven't said a word yet, and that alone could be spent two or three hours here, and I may not have said much to him about the illegalities experienced during evictions. Where is the law that you have brought in here, and the abuses that go hand in hand with the bailiffs, are to be eliminated? But you didn't do anything about it, and I think you did, and we need to talk about that. I think that if I add to this that I have started by not having ever been supported, on any occasion, they have not initiated the implementation of a rent-apartment program, and now they seem to have completed the work, but they are not finished, and they are entrusting this public service to a nonprofit company that is neither listed nor found anywhere, please tell me everything about your attitude, your social policy, and I think that this is a beautiful contrast to what you have done with this country in the last eleven years. I'm sorry, I think that a law like this can be passed only after they have been involved in the compensation of debtors, they have been involved in protecting victims, for example, in the case of executives, and that is really the zeroth and every way to expect, what my colleague Dániel Z. Carpathian said to extend the eviction moratorium at least during the epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We're gonna have two-minute comments. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fó Nagy.
u2021-04-29-55	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to facilitate a substantive debate, I would like to confirm once again after the Expo that this institution is created by the Hungarian Reformed Charity Service and the Maltese Charity Service. Of course, they need a normative basis for what they're creating it for. So we need the law first, so they're gonna set up the company. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] The financing of the companies was subject to a budgetary commitment depending on the size of the housing they had undertaken, which was heard in the expoze. It could also be heard in the expoze that a detailed list of apartments will be established after the adoption of the norm. [[12.20]] I say to Congressman Varga that, by the way, Levin was the chef of Cape Town Prison, whose favourite saying was that a gentleman did not put potatoes next to meat just to drink the juice. So not only in the matter, but also in the great Levin, the government, I think, is up-to-date. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next two-minute comment is Congressman Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz.
u2021-04-29-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Some of the points that have been expressed here by opposition speakers. These properties are 1-2-3 million real estate. I just want to reassure everyone. And I would invite everyone to these settlements. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] We'd show you real estate like this. You have to come down, you have to come and you have to talk to people to see what's going on there, and what kind of situation these families are in, who we're trying to help right now. The Maltese and Reformed Love Service, both of them can be found. I sat down with them, talked it over, asked them what they wanted to do, and they told me the whole strategy and concept. I think it's good. Finally, someone wants to help with renovations, housing, settlements, and the process is finally underway! It's only part of this system, and I welcome it. Their activity is already in these settlements, it can be viewed. They do public tasks, they run kindergartens, they run schools. This is another public task that we can be grateful for, that they will take over. Therefore, I believe that we should definitely support this legislation, help these families and take a step forward again. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát, Jobbik, for two minutes.
u2021-04-29-59	Mr President, Dear House, I can't believe they don't feel it. So when they say that a civil or charitable organisation is being given public tasks, they admit that these public tasks have been failed in the last ten years. No rentals are being built, and they are now pleased that a charitable organization plans and promises to renovate and build rentals. In my view, this is a confession, and I wish it weren't, because 11 years of the Hungarian future were wasted with the tolerance of housing cataclysms, when there is a supply shortage in a market, there is a housing cataclysm, and there is a forced emigration spiral that could have been countered by the expansion of the housing program. I am very sorry that this historic opportunity seemed to slip away this decade. I must say, however, and I regret that my fellow Member Nacsa did not wait for me, but I find the argument that he does not think there should be an eviction moratorium if we do not support the extension of the emergency. Well, you can't put equality marks between the two, but we're talking about different genres. The extension of the emergency, when it does not support, say, my political community, the Jobbik, is not supported by the construction of a modern type of fidesz deep state, a deep state, nor does it support the continuous rescue of national wealth for itself, hiding behind the emergency. But still that there is a debate going on between us, because of course there will be a debate, this debate will take at least until the last asset is recovered, and until a fair recovery process, while at the same time I do not think that Hungarian people should be evicted in Hungary, but I cannot take this from the opposition to Parliament. It is the duty of the government to make such a statement, but I still have not heard the promise here in the debate that Hungarian people will not be evicted during the epidemic. I look forward to your response. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-29-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor, DK.
u2021-04-29-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't think we should continue with this big Levin polemia. I'm glad you know Hidden One, then you know that it's really about Levin, or else the dog didn't know other than that he was a prison chef, why he was the great Levin. He's always referred to me, and they've been thinking behind his back, "Oh, my God, I wonder who he is, but whatever, that's not the point. If I'm reading it correctly, it's nonprofit. In fact, it hasn't even been created yet. It's a plan to create such a company that will handle an incredibly large amount of state property or ex-state property. If I'm reading this correctly, you're looking for some kind of coat for the button. Deny me or confirm me in this matter, if I'm wrong about this, there really isn't any trace of this company in any official database. The question is, then, how does this happen to you? How is this system? They knock on the door so you don't mind, you don't want to create a company, because we'd give you, I don't know, between 100 and 200 billion forints, did you have state assets, huge real estate bodies? Or how does that work? So if I go in there and tell you to watch it, I'd like to join this business or my neighbor. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is not a business!]] So you're gonna open this circle? Or is it someone you know, someone you know? Are there any acting, visiting bag people who either go to the churches, or to the charitable organizations, or to the state and do business with this? Is this some kind of lobbying? Tell me something about the secrets of your state's operation, how this works. So here's a proposal, based on a company that doesn't have a company yet, I understand. If I don't understand you correctly, I apologize to all interested parties. But if I understand it correctly, technically by kissing and swearing, there will be a company in the event that you get those legal guarantees that you have to make it happen. Then why is this necessary, so how does this system work? Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives, if I see a candidate on the screen. [[There's no candidate.]] I can't see. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy.
u2021-04-29-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In two minutes, I said one of the essence of what I have to say, the closing word, namely that these two charity services are creating this company, and yes, it is taking on a task in which the charitable activity, the many decades of backward charity, has a very serious role to play. And it is also obvious that, since it is taking on state tasks to a certain extent, the public funding of this will also be based on this normative nature, subject to the size of the housing fund. The essence of this is to ensure that the housing fund to be handed over is renovated, made habitable and operated further. The other thing I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that I have asked you here on another subject, so please do not try to reflect our 2002 knowledge and the state of 2021, perhaps even by 2010. In 2010, this country was in ruins, in 2010 there was virtually a post-war situation: the country was indebted, the municipalities were indebted, families were indebted, banks, power plants, service providers were in foreign hands. [[Zoltán Varga: Now they are in the hands of Lőrinc Mészáros.]] The only international airport in the country, the freight transport sector of the Hungarian railway. Please do not want to reflect on the options that we may have in the current consolidated situation by 2010. In the autumn of 2010 and 2011-12, this government knew what it knew under those circumstances, and kept a order: it got rid of the public debt, freed the municipalities from the burden, and provided a major, vast majority of the families with foreign exchange credit with an outgoing journey. Indeed, the steps of this have been said many times. [[12.30]] What my fellow Member Z. Carpathian said is a decade-long debate, indeed, is that we want to make housing policy with a public tenant or housing policy, or we want to basically help families find homes. Based on the experience of recent decades, the rental system in this country, let's say, has failed twice in a row in the last 50 years. I'm not sure this is necessarily the way it should have been, but under the circumstances, it has failed. Today, Hungarian family policy, the Hungarian housing policy, is basically directed towards privately owned housing, and the vast majority of people feel safe if they provide own-owned housing for themselves and their children. It's a different idea, in a word, I'm not saying that it doesn't have a right to exist, only that requires other historical history and other social relations. On this basis, I respectfully ask the opposition parties in Parliament to re-examine the content of the bill, to trust that these two long-standing charity services will take on and operate this task with competence. In the hope of this, I ask you to support the Government's proposal. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-64	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, We have until 16:00 today to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the proposal to amend Act I of 2021 on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic until closure. The government referral is T/15997. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-29-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary is fighting the Crown Virus pandemic with one of Europe's most effective vaccination programmes. However, the new virus variants spread across Europe, and the British mutant strain causing the third wave of pandemic has been present in Hungary for months, and therefore increased protection is essential. The Government therefore proposes to extend the scope of the Law on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic until the 15th day following the first day of the autumn session. At the same time, the proposal states that the government may terminate the emergency before then. The basic goal of the government is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, reduce economic damage and preserve jobs. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to make a swift and effective decision. The last year of the pandemic has demonstrated that the exceptional and transitional legal framework previously adopted has served these objectives well. The economic and social effects of pandemic control go beyond the duration of the emergency. The proposal can therefore, if necessary, ensure appropriate fairness in cases where the temporary further application of emergency government regulations is of crucial importance for citizens and for the sake of legal certainty. Dear House, The purpose of the amendment to Act I of 2021 on the protection of the Crown Virus pandemic is to extend the scope of the law in order to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. In this context, the proposal states that the Government may terminate the emergency before the 15th day following the first meeting of the 2012 autumn parliamentary session if the basic legal conditions for maintaining the emergency are no longer in place. In the summer of 2020, due to the successful protection against the first wave of the coronal virus pandemic, the relevant Hungarian scientists also expressed optimism, and it was not foreseen how much damage the second wave of pandemics worldwide would cause, nor that different virus variants could significantly increase the spread and death of the infection. It is important to stress that the government has a constitutional responsibility for declaring and extending the emergency. We also want Hungary and its inhabitants to be able to return to normal as soon as possible and to continue the unbroken economic growth and rise in living standards in parallel with the simultaneous reduction of unemployment, which marked Hungary until early 2020. In the area of emergency protection measures, the government shall follow the principles of gradualness and proportionality. We are monitoring the measures applied by other European countries, we are taking good practices and we are learning from deterrent examples. The focus of flexible Hungarian protection measures is also human health and health, but we must also take into account the psychological and mental health and needs of Hungarian citizens. Therefore, in view of the gravity of the situation, as shown by daily and weekly infection and mortality data, only the necessary and unavoidable restrictive measures will be introduced when they become timely. Similarly, the pace and timing of the lifting of restrictions are dependent on the rate of national grafting. The government did not forget that sectors such as tourism, hospitality and the performing arts sector, which were growing dynamically prior to the pandemic, were in serious crisis due to the pandemic situation. New hotels, restaurants, tourist and catering businesses, foreigners visiting our country and the expansion of domestic tourism also opened up in Hungary before 2020. Government measures in the event of an emergency therefore mean not only close public health and epidemiological measures, but also the protection of families, jobs and businesses. The goal is to create a new job instead of a job that's gone. Apart from those working in tourism and catering, the government does not forget about performers who are forced to stop their actions or small entrepreneurs who suffer loss of income due to closure, such as hairdressers, beauticians, physiotherapists and sports trainers. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Under the Fundamental Law, the special legal order may be terminated by the body empowered to introduce a special legal order if the conditions for its publication no longer exist. In the event of an emergency, a number of issues arise which require transitional arrangements. With regard to the transitional rules, the Constitutional Court pointed out that the economic and social effects of the emergency pandemic control go beyond the duration of the emergency, preventing the negative effects, and the measures taken to this end could therefore be measures with lasting or even definitive effect. All these findings are also relevant in the present emergency situation. Ladies and gentlemen, During the current emergency, the government has introduced a number of measures with its regulations to combat the consequences of the coronal virus pandemic causing a mass disease that threatens the safety of life and property, in order to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. However, under the Fundamental Law, the Government's regulations in the original legislative powers under Articles 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law in the event of an emergency will cease to exist with the end of the emergency, despite the fact that a number of government regulation measures are designed to avoid the long-term negative effects of the emergency. Based on constitutional practice, the Parliament has to settle situations involving long-term relationships as a result of the expiry, and any legal uncertainty that may arise has to be resolved by the Parliament by means of legislation, creating appropriate transitional rules at legal level. However, in view of the fact that the date of termination of the emergency situation is not known, it is not possible to establish the legal rules fully in advance without knowing the final date of the emergency. In order to ensure legal certainty arising from Article B of the Fundamental Law and to ensure that measures to combat negative effects beyond the duration of the emergency can be applied until the law expires, the proposal provides for a rule of application. The proposal may thus ensure, if necessary, appropriate fairness in cases where further application of emergency government regulations is essential for citizens. For example, its use as proposed would allow the period of validity of documents which have expired during an emergency not to end automatically with the removal of an emergency, the rules on the temporary exemption of SZÉP cards will be maintained, or measures to help re-launch the economy, such as measures relating to the use of public space, local tax rules, should not be abolished. [[12.40]] The proposal does not fully replace Parliament's regulatory task of ending an emergency, i.e. the establishment of a discharge law, but temporarily ensures the further application of the emergency regulations after its expiry. The Minister for Justice shall publish a communication on the relevant emergency government regulations at the same time as the removal of the emergency, in the Official Notice annexed to the Hungarian Gazette. The Communication has no legal effect, it has an information function. It should be stressed that, on the basis of the preamble to the law, Hungary's efforts to leave the period of the coronal virus pandemic behind as soon as possible remain the most important one, but the exact date of this is currently not foreseen, and the regulation under the proposal is therefore justified. In the context of further application, it is a guarantee clause that if Parliament regulates the post-emergency rule of an emergency measure by law prior to the end of the emergency, it may exclude the application of the emergency government regulation after its expiry. At the same time, the government is seeking to legislate the current emergency government regulations that give legal effect beyond the emergency situation, here I am also referring to this week's meeting in Parliament on the 2020 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. Bill No. 1 replacing emergency government regulation. Dear House, The proposal amends the date of the expiry of the law in order to protect against the coronal virus pandemic by ending on the 15th day following the first day of the 2012 autumn parliamentary session, the calendar date of which shall be determined by the Minister of Justice, which shall immediately be published in the Hungarian Gazette, after its publication. Once again, thanks will be paid to all Hungarian law-abiding citizens who have contributed to slowing down the spread of the epidemic in compliance with the measures. Special thanks come from health care, law enforcement, commerce, something for those working in public and higher education, without their sacrifice, this could not have been done. Now, in the spring of 2021, we must take action again to protect the country and take responsible decisions. We are aware that national cooperation, joint action, compliance with measures and discipline are the most important reserves of Hungarian power. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In order for the government to be able to take all the measures necessary for effective defence in a timely manner, it is necessary to adopt this bill as soon as possible. That is why I appeal to you, honourable left-wing Members. This is a chance to show again: national cooperation, joint action is possible. I still believe that there must be common issues that are above political interests and debates, in which the nation and its representatives are united. Protection against the epidemic, such as protecting the lives and jobs of Hungarian people, is such a matter. Therefore, I ask with respect that you support the bill. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-66	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-04-29-67	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 11 March 2020, the Government of Hungary declared a special legal order and emergency to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens throughout the country. In this time of trial, it is particularly necessary to ensure the widest possible national cooperation and social solidarity. It has therefore become clear that it is a common responsibility for all of us to prevent, slow down the spread of the coronal virus and to support the fight against infection and to protect human health. Responsible decisions must be taken by the Parliament and the government in times of crisis. These unusual restrictions require great patience from all citizens, but with sufficient discipline and cooperation it is now possible to gradually mitigate. We must be able to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, and we must also be able to protect the functioning of hospitals. These two go hand in hand, because if the spread of the virus is reduced, the burden on the health care system will also be reduced. It should be stressed that there is a huge task on the shoulders of those who work in the health system, which is why it is necessary for both the parliamentary parties and the government to stand united behind them. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian vaccine procurement strategy has proved successful. We can rightly say that Hungary is fighting the Crown Virus pandemic with one of the most effective vaccination programmes on the continent. However, new viral variants are spreading around the world, including in our country, which is why increased protection remains essential. To this end, the Government of Hungary shall propose the extension of the scope of Act I of 2021 on the control of the Crown Virus pandemic until the 15th day following the first day of the autumn parliamentary session in 2021. I must mention that the proposal also makes a very forward-looking point that the government may terminate the emergency prior to this if the basic legal conditions for maintaining it no longer exist. In the event of an emergency, however, there are a number of issues requiring transitional regulation, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out that the economic and social impact of the protection against an emergency pandemic goes far beyond the duration of the emergency. Thus, measures taken to address or eliminate negative effects may be measures with a lasting or even definitive effect. The government has introduced a number of measures with its regulations in order to counter the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, which threatens the safety of life and property, and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, as rapid action by the executive authority is essential in such trying times. Under Articles 53 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law, the Government's regulations in the original legislative powers are repealed with the end of the emergency, despite the fact that a number of measures included in the Government Decrees are designed to avoid the long-term negative effects of the pandemic, but the legal uncertainty arising as a result of the expiry of the law must be rectified by the National Assembly, namely by the establishment of an appropriate level of legislation. However, it should be noted that it is not possible to do this in advance because the date of termination of the emergency is not known in advance. In order to ensure compliance with the requirement of legal certainty arising from the rule of law resulting from Article B of the Fundamental Law, pending the expiry of the law, the proposal submitted provides for a rule of application to ensure adequate fairness in cases where the application of emergency government regulations is relevant for citizens. Consider, for example, the period of validity of expired documents, for which it is particularly useful that they do not automatically expire with the end of an emergency. But I could also mention the need to maintain the rules on the temporary exemption of SZÉP cards. Dear House, As a result of constitutional practice, it is clear that the proposal before us can only temporarily ensure the further application of the emergency government regulations after the expiry, since the Parliament is responsible for the resolution of the emergency situation, i.e. the establishment of the discharge law. I would also like to point out that the law is new 4/B. Paragraph (2) of the Act provides for an exception rule of warranty for further application, that if Parliament regulates the rule of an emergency measure for the period after the emergency, it may rule out the application of the Emergency Government Regulation after the expiry of the emergency decree. The most important goal for all of us right now is for Hungary to put the corona virus pandemic behind it as soon as possible. However, given that the exact date of this is not foreseen, it is therefore appropriate to introduce the legislation contained in the bill on the House's table. The Fidesz Group supports the bill and I ask all my fellow Members to consider what has been said and to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2021-04-29-68	Thank you very much, Congressman László Salacz. I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, who is the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-04-29-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me thank those who have taken part in the defence of the past period and, despite the measures taken by the government, helped the country to survive the last third wave, saved people's lives, held on to their own businesses, and helped them many times out of their own self-esteem without state support, so that they could survive at all. With regard to the current bill, I can tell you that we cannot give our consent, because we cannot give our consent to a bad one. We've given the government good faith, then you've abused it. I can say for sure that Viktor Orbán of Jobbik will not receive the mandate again. The abuses that you have done under cover of the epidemic situation, although the following, and unfortunately not exhaustively, can be said, are taxatically listed, there are plenty of them, but the most important ones will certainly be worth mentioning. You didn't save the economy, you didn't save the lives, but you did save your own wealth and the wealth of your friends. The funds have been evacuated to foundations, while Hungary is number one in global mortality per million, it has recently left Gibraltar, it has left the Czech Republic, Belgium is behind us, Bosnia and Herzegovina is behind us, and we could list countries with poor epidemiological indicators in this respect, i.e. the Covid mortality per million, but Hungary is the worst of all. This is the real result of the last mandate, which the government managed to get out of it. But we can also say that to businesses. The fact that businesses are on the verge of bankruptcy and are dancing in the most uncertain situation is also due to you, because while Jobbik demanded that companies in difficulty be given 80% wage support, and even some who have proposed 100% wage support, we see that Hungary has acted with the most limited margin. Everyone fought for a hundred percent of the sick, but you don't want to give it to people, even though, in the case of the coronal virus epidemic, there are a lot of people who are sick in proportion to their population, which means that they have been in a very many cases of incapacity for work. For them, in such an emergency, it would certainly have been necessary to introduce fair, fair sickness insurance rules. And here it is under the last authorization and between the two authorizations, so to speak, the medical service that was introduced during the night, with which they managed to get rid of 5,500 health workers at the end of the epidemic with a feather stroke. The lack of 5500 health workers in the system has caused damage that is still difficult to estimate, but it will, and it has done, damage. And while we are on the subject of this sneaky and insidious restructuring, it must also be said that it appears that they have now turned to the social sphere and are trying to create a similar uncertainty. If the theme of the next mandate is that in the social care system, which is an important bastion of defence, they also want to create uncertainty among the workers, then we cannot give them permission. But we could also look at what sounds very sad, and in this you have admitted data, and hospital managers close to you have admitted data, and the government still hasn't given an answer, although for a next mandate, we should at least clarify why 80-90 percent of the patients on the ventilator in Hungary are dying. The last time we heard about it was 84 percent from the county hospital in Székesfehérvár. I think that this is very amazing, very horrifying, and the state has a responsibility to bring experts together, to sit down and discuss the best practice, so that everyone who is really going to be hospital and sick will be cured, contrary to the promise of Viktor Orbán, who promised in September 2020 that he would cure everyone. Compared to this, Hungary has become a world record of deaths per million people. But we could also talk about the need for the military in hospitals and the role the military played. On a written question, I asked the Minister of Defence to tell me about tasks in which he helped the work of health workers and what examples he could give. I got a two - line answer about what it was and what it was supposed to be. There was no meaningful information of any kind. And here we reach the next problem. You have used the last emergency and the prior authorisation from the very beginning to prevent communication from being transparent in any way. If someone wanted to request data, it was constantly extended to 45 plus 45 days, and even in an impertinent manner, there was an authority that sent opposition representatives false texts and dissapearing texts and e-mails, simply by disenfranchising them from asking and discovering data, I would add, data that you should have published a long time ago, and which you should have made public; not because an opposition politician would have asked, but the profession asks you to judge what situation the country is in, and what situation the epidemic is in. But we also saw that you were trying to help people by offering me a loan. They did not offer financial assistance, but a loan that would have to be repaid later in an uncertain economic future in a precarious employment situation. And we also saw that, for example, regarding the credit moratorium, there were cases in which someone's repayments increased significantly during the period of the credit moratorium and their debts increased significantly. It is also a facial toaster that your minister of oncologist has stopped screening for cancer diseases during the last phase of the epidemic, even though you rebooted kindergartens and schools a few weeks later, and now the terraces are being restarted, but the cancer patients are still waiting for screening and are still waiting for their participation in the screening. Gentlemen, we should decide what is more important: booze or therapy. We can send a message to Miklós Kásler to decide what is important, whether patients can return to hospitals or not. Based on your authority, if you receive it, it is almost guaranteed that patients will find it difficult to obtain it, they will once again hesitate to restart health services and very many will be in trouble. And it is not only those who died primarily in connection with Covid's disease that it is very sad that Hungary is the world's leading cause of death as a proportion of the population, but also those victims who are so to say the silent victims of this epidemic, who did not reach the doctor, had no time, could not continue their treatments and could not start therapy. But we also see that, as a measure of power, you have constantly put the municipalities under pressure and are preparing for this again. Well, when Parliament meets, when the terraces are open, when you want to allow four million inoculations to take a seat in restaurants, tell me why the municipal councils cannot meet, why the most direct democratic institutions in their own affairs, in their own local affairs, cannot make decisions. Why do only the mayors have the opportunity? Why couldn't we have an online meeting? You have only one purpose to narrow down the passageway where people can channel their views through some Members in the democratic setting. It is clear that the government has not lived at all, but has abused its extraordinary situation and the extraordinary mandate for municipalities. Nor can they really account for the need for free parking. Free parking in a unique way, perhaps in the only country in the world, is the defence tool in Hungary to fight the epidemic, but it can be seen that it is also aimed at the demise of the municipalities, especially the metropolitan, non-friendly self-governments, the local representation there, the destruction of local democracy. The events of the previous days have shown what you have been up to, what you are going to use and what you are going to use the mandate for. I ask you, after all this, how can we give you authority when Hungary is the world leader in mortality with over 27 thousand dead people, by using the envelope of emergency for every democracy destruction. What they think of crisis management itself and what they think of the mandate itself is quite talkative. When the issue of authorisation approached in September and Viktor Orbán talked about wanting to save everyone, the Hungarian epidemiological success and the success of the defence were measured in deaths. Then they suddenly forgot about it, and now we're at the point where you're denying these data. The Prime Minister here in Parliament constantly refers to Hungary being in its middle field instead of the European Union's edge, but does not say what kind of indicator. In comparison, the reality is that, not only according to Worldometer, but according to Johns Hopkins, and even based on data from other important statistics, Hungary is in fact the world leader in the ranking of deaths per million people. [[13.00]] But it could be used for good, by the way, to give you authority, but of course you don't. One of these good things that could be accomplished is a fair testing system, a decent contact research. We are saying that a year after the outbreak began... if we accept that in spring it was not prepared not only for Hungary, but most of the European countries, and even most of the world, were not prepared to seek contact. You had time in September, you had time in December, you would have had time to set up a fair epidemiological prevention and research network in January, February, in which you would have had the opportunity to register patients and their contacts, to follow them in some way and to reduce the number of contacts and the number of infections. In comparison, one thing happened: Viktor Orbán allowed the virus to dictate the pace not only in the fall, but also in the spring. And what is happening is very spectacular: Hungary could not stand this pace, and that is why this death occurred in Hungarian people. And the last thing worth drawing attention to is actually a legal nonsense. Although you have now asked for specific dates more than once in the mandate, for 90 or 60 days, I believe that this has always been clear in the past period, and you have also made use of a solution at the last deadline that you said you were going to put an end to the regulations on the 15th day following the first day of the autumn session. Now, there is only one thing that is not clear: which legislation contains it because it includes when there is a fall session. It is one thing that the autumn session never begins on 1 September, it usually starts around 15 September, but it is referred to customary law, a time and a first day of sitting, and otherwise depends only on the convenience of László Kövér, when he will convene the first parliamentary meeting. I would add that there would surely be Members, even members of the Government, who could imagine an extraordinary meeting day, but what always happened was that when it was necessary to work, when it was time for work, when it was time to help debtors, when it was some kind of disease control or even European issues, you didn't come to extraordinary meetings. There is no guarantee that they will not put the first day of the meeting until October or November, as the case may be, until the emergency is maintained. It was a waste of time to include such a gown and such a rubber rule, but you can always present a new one for each authorisation law. To sum up, I can say that what was going on was not a crisis management, but, in fact, a deepening of the crisis. You will continue to do so, and you will continue to be interested in deepening it. The People's Party Jobbik will call you to account for the lost and lost lives, the ruined families, and we will charge you for the stolen public property under the cover of the extraordinary legal order, and rest assured, we will help those workers who lost their jobs because of your mistake, put their business in a hopeless position, and we will do everything we can to make sure that these people are in a better position than under your extraordinary legal order. It is clear, therefore, that Viktor Orbán has asked for the mandate, he will receive the authority from you, but then he will take responsibility; he will take responsibility for the more than 27 thousand people who have died in the world, and for the pace that is still taking place, and he will also take responsibility for letting the virus dictate the pace in the autumn and spring. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2021-04-29-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At the trial of the current bill, we must first express our thanks to everyone who has been on the front line for the last year or more than a year: doctors, nurses, social workers, teachers, kindergarten teachers, logistics professionals, epidemiological experts, members of the operational tribe and everyone who is now involved in one of the most successful vaccination campaigns in the world, despite all the left-wing counterwinds, false news production, lies and rumors. They are the real heroes, you were the tie-breakers, and it seems from Congressman Luke's speech that they would like to continue to be. Let us remember that Congressman Luke called the Russian vaccine a Russian roulette and urged the government to complete the human experiment he believed to have done with the Russian vaccine. Well, you guys are anti-vaccination. I would like to thank the discipline of the Hungarian people this long year for the restrictive measures that have demanded of everyone, which have put the stamp on everyone's life, and have demanded resignation from everyone, they have been able to comply, by their conduct and discipline, to contribute to the fact that the results of the Hungarian defense, which can be seen and the results of the vaccination campaign, could be achieved. I ask everyone that, although the steps of re-opening have begun, discipline and compliance with the rules still in force should continue to be the first aspect, and that our attention should not be lost, because we can see that the various mutations, viral mutants and variants are constantly attacking the whole world, including Europe and our country; therefore, our attention cannot be lost. No one can say it, and no one can tell when the epidemic is going to end, no one can tell us what the objective aspect is when we can say that this epidemic is over, no one of you can say a date for that. For the past year, you've done nothing but hinder the defense. They started when they did not contribute to the departure from house rules last March and the measures that the government considered important could not enter into force. They have not contributed, more than once, to achieving effective and swift decision-making, and you have spread that Parliament is not working. For example, Congressman Luke is now bringing here bill proposals in his speech that the government has taken advantage of the emergency and the extraordinary legal order of the university model change. Honourable Congressman, We discussed it here for a long, long period of time, and the Hungarian Parliament made laws on the restructuring of universities, for example, according to a regular legislative timetable. You say that the government abused the extraordinary legal order when the university model change was accepted here by Parliament. We would have liked to have seen you in the debate, and many of us were here in the debate on the modeling of universities. [[Gergely Harvesto: You haven't lost anything!]] You say that the government abused the extraordinary legal order at that time, but at least you would have found an example that would somehow stand up to you, but you couldn't do it either. In this, as in many other questions, they lie constantly. You attacked the soldiers. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] What I would like to refuse on their behalf, he said that they did absolutely unnecessary work there in hospitals. Honourable Congressman, When I was called into one of the hospitals recently in the case of vaccination, I saw that there was order, discipline, efficiency, and this was partly due to the soldiers who helped the medical staff to check for, for example, the paperwork, such as the questionnaire, such as not being too many in the same room with regard to waiting, for example, who could enter the room. So I would also like to thank the soldiers in the hospital, without whom, for example, it would be more difficult to conduct the current mass vaccination campaign. Of course, most of the time, you're making the current vaccination campaign difficult. The fact is, Mr President, from your point of view, you were very wise to refrain from the three-to-four-month anti-vaccination campaign that you have all been following from about December until now, and yesterday László Varju continued on ATV when he called Eastern vaccines a false solution. So you will not stop, all of you sitting here, with the exception of Mrs Dúró, have signed a proposal for a resolution banning the use of Eastern vaccines. [[Gergely Harvesto: We wouldn't have banned it! I wrote it. I know what's in it.]] You're literally in on it, Your Honour. If your motion for a resolution had been accepted by the Parliament, there would be more than a million and a half people less inoculated now, this is the big deal, and we wouldn't be in the vaccination campaign anywhere. We would be in the position where the European Union is at, who relied solely on Brussels' stalling vaccine purchases, and we would not be discussing the steps of re-opening now, but would be in the position of the Hungarian people, as in Austria or Germany, when they were told, say, at the age of 40, that in September they might be in the process of vaccination. You are talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, because you have been attacking the purchase of Eastern vaccines all along, you have been attacking the vaccinations. In recent weeks, we have seen a change of direction, because the direct, full-on anti-vaccination campaign has turned into a sneaky campaign, a debatable campaign, when DK politicians, Jobbik politicians, MSZP politicians constantly question the effectiveness of Eastern vaccines; when sentences from László György Lukács that Russian vaccine is Russian roulette; when he says András Fekete-Győr, one of your Prime Minister's candidates, does not buy a Russian vaccine without EU authorisation because it is a waste of money; when the DK Facebook page says that Chinese vaccine should be banned. [[13.10]] This was written by you, Honourable Congressman Arato. It was posted on your Facebook page that the Chinese vaccine should be banned. When Ákos Hadházy says that the Russian vaccine should not be given to the Hungarians if it was approved; when Péter Jakab, President of Jobbik, and one of your candidates for Prime Minister talks racistly about the fact that there is some Chinese stuff used to inoculate a million Africans, you believe that it should be good for the Hungarians, this is nothing more than an experiment; when Ferenc Gyurcsány talks about the fact that I do not want the Hungarians to be there for the vaccination of Eastern vaccines as an experimental rabbit; when György László Lukács also talks about that Hungary is not the Russian laboratory, Szijjártó and Orbán finish experimenting with the Russian vaccine on the Hungarians in 64 countries, otherwise the Russian vaccine has been authorised, honourable Member, you have been constantly, systematically and premeditated, against vaccinations in order to make the epidemic situation worse, so that less people have been vaccinated. DK said that if Viktor Orbán continues to force the Chinese vaccine, there will be no one million vaccinees. That's what your spokesperson said. That was your goal, not to have a million inoculated. That is what you said at your press conference, and the most impressive answer was given by the Hungarian people, who keep registering, the number of people registered is increasing, vaccination is increasing, and the number of vaccinated people is constantly increasing, because the Hungarian people have found that you are trying to deceive them. The Hungarian people have found out that you want to talk him out of vaccination. The Hungarian people also realized that you are trying to scare them away from the life-saving vaccination only on the basis of their power, petty political, pathetic interests, and unfortunately some of them have been deterred. According to your voters' polls of Policy Solutions, which is absolutely non-predictable by pro-government dissent, they said that left-wing voters have a much lower willingness to be vaccinated. It was a success, so you can be proud of yourself, you've been successful in your perplexing, sly campaign, and your voters have a much less willingness to inoculate than, by the way, the majority of society, among pro-government voters. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there may have been people who refused the Eastern vaccine, relying on your sentences and trusting you, and then don't give me, God, they've got the disease, or they could have serious consequences. You are responsible for this behaviour and for the constant attack of Hungarian experts on the control of the epidemic. DK congressman was ragging Müller Cecília's Chief of Medicine. In Zoltán Varga's life, he has not worked as hard as Muller Cecília in this one year, his whole life, while speaking about it in such a disgusting tone and desecrating his faith. You were constantly attacking the licensing authorities. It was the last time Ferenc Gyurcsány was under political pressure on the various Hungarian authorities when Ferenc Gyurcsány played a role in the noble construction of the communist regime; the tiny villa is the reward, we know. You attacked professionals, the decisions of the operational tribe, the epidemiological measures, the professionals and the authorities. You've been shooting fake videos, publishing fake statistics. Week after week, they lied in the defense of the epidemic here in your non-functioning National Assembly. In the middle of the epidemic, even in the most difficult situation, chief medical officer, hospital director, epidemiological experts had to respond to your false news, when you made all sorts of completely insane accusations against hospitals, against CDC experts, against the operational tribe, and devoted some of your time to responding to your insane accusations instead of the epidemiology defense. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, although I obviously did not have much hope for it, but it would have been fair, and let us not give up optimism, some left-wing Members still have to stand up here and say that they apologize to the Hungarian people for calling the Russian vaccine Russian roulette [[Dr. László György Lukács: What is the registration of the vaccine? Has it been registered at the European Medicines Agency?]] That he was unsure of every sentence of his entire party in the vaccinations, if he properly apologizes for what has been done over the past months and the last year. This would have been the only right direction for his speech if he had started by apologizing to the Hungarian people, the professionals, in addition to his thanks. Not from us, because we're used to you insulting us with all kinds of lying accusations, there's nothing wrong with that. You should have apologized to the Hungarian people, honourable Member. He told me that I had written to myself that medical service was insidious, insidious way. Well, you voted for it, Your Honour. You voted in favour of a medical service [[Dr. László György Lukács: 5500 employees have been chased away on the basis of posted documents! You've chased 5500 employees away by decree!]] and, by the way, an unprecedented historical wage increase, honourable Member. You here in the Hungarian Parliament and your entire group voted in favour of this. He is now trying to back out of it, again daily as a sunflower, changing his political opinion as Ferenc Gyurcsány asks of you, but the fact is, honourable Member, that you and your entire group voted in favour of this law. After you voted for something, don't call it sneaky and insidious, because you and the political mandate that was given to the people in your group were behind it. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I was at the Ministry meeting, I know what it was!]] He was behind this law. I've listened to you, Congressman, but there's nothing wrong. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I will not listen to you! It's my choice! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What I'm asking is that you don't attack the soldiers, you don't attack the medical staff, even if you have competitive salaries now and you can't export them to the West, you don't attack the medical staff. I would ask you to apologize for your behavior over the last year, for the insubstantiation, for the attack on the epidemiological defense; I do not have much hope for it, but in the interests of a still member of MSZP, DK, LMP, who is still on the table. We are not surprised that, as with the current epidemiological issues, the bill on epidemiological control is never represented in any way, they have no opinion, no interest in the protection of the epidemic, they are never here at this time. [[Gergely Harvester: Where is KDNP?]] Of course, Gergely Christmas must be Facebooking a good one at this time, but the representatives of her party never come in, never say their opinion about defense, never appreciate it. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] so much for the Hungarian people, their voters, who sent them here through the back of the MSZP to at least give their opinion. Let's record this in the minutes, the Dialogue doesn't care about the control of a coronal virus epidemic. I ask you to stop your anti-vaccination, inconclusive, sly campaign, which the MSZP, DK, LMP, Jobbik and Dialogue with the Moment continue to continue to continue to continue to do so, because the aim is to ensure that all people can receive vaccination, because all vaccines available in Hungary are effective and safe, all vaccines available in Hungary have been tested and approved by the institutions, the authorities, and all vaccines available in Hungary save lives even if you dissuade people, even if you deny it, and even if you continue to carry on with your anti-vaccination behaviour, you will save lives. We ask everyone to register, because if it were up to the left, then the reboot could be discussed in July, August or September, not now, at the end of April, at the beginning of May, because several steps have been taken. We've got a lot of moves ahead of us. We hope to reach 4 million inoculated tomorrow, and a next step can be taken to restart. Everyone should remember that the left would have taken away the possibility of opening, would have taken away the freedom, because the left didn't want a vaccination campaign, the left would want to prove it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-04-29-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We were so excited because we were talking about the KDNP sharing his speech as the lead speaker, and we were waiting to see what else could come and bring up this parliamentary debate, but let's face it, I think after our fellow Member Nacsa, KDNP felt that this could no longer be achieved. Our fellow Member Nacsa says that the opposition is in a state of power and is clinging to power and clinging to it. It is quite something, Mr Congressman, that we are sitting here, I am per moment in the debate of a bill that is about to be given unlimited authority by the government to repeal any law in this country next, because we do not know for what a long time because it was written that this law does not reveal when it ends, practically when László Kövér will be worthy to call Parliament together in the autumn, on 1 September, 1 October, 38 December, absolutely no matter what, 15 days later than that. So when we're discussing this bill on the total concentration, uncontrollableness and virtually governing of power with the Patrents, you have an image to discuss the opposition's relationship to power here in your keynote speech. [[13.20]] In addition, you also took the liberty of calling for an apology to the opposition in relation to the epidemiological defence. Now, Mr. Nacha, let's stop right there. Let's slow down, shall we? ! Then, if you stand up and apologize to 27,356 of our dead countrymen and their surviving families because you have truly been able to do a fair epidemiological defense in this country with full authority, regulation administration and all means. Austria has set an Austrian example. Well, do you understand what you're talking about? ! It shows what you've done to this country. In Austria, which is a country of similar magnitude and we started from about the same place last autumn in terms of disease control, 10,000 people died, and here almost 30,000. We lost three times as many men while they had every opportunity to defend themselves. What are you talking about, asking us to apologize? ! These are dead people, they can't be brought back, and they're all on your hands after your prime minister came here and said that a) we're going to cure everyone, b) we're going to measure the success of the defense in human lives. So the first point is that you apologize for missing the opportunity, because you probably had political or other economic reasons for your Prime Minister when he made the decisions, or just when he didn't, even though he should have done it at the time, at the beginning, at the end of the third wave, or at the end. Because, to this day, contact research and testing are virtually non-existent in this country. If we return to the bill for you, my honourable fellow Member, I can tell you that there are two very sacred things for Viktor Orbán and his government, for the 133 members of the Fidesz and KDNP who support him, of whom, if I count correctly, at least two are here in the Chamber, and one more Secretary of State. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's a congressman too!]] That's why I added it. These two sacred things are really power and money. This week, my fellow Members, they've put a lot of effort into this. On Tuesday, it was voted here in Parliament to move thousands of billions of HUF from state wealth to private foundations. There was no such damage to this country in the free robbing ceremony after the change of regime. [[Dr. Pál Völner: During Gyurcsány!]] Then, on Thursday, we will discuss the bill, which, as I said, is about how full power will remain in the hands of Viktor Orbán, with one person's authority, throughout the summer or even in the autumn, and how the Prime Minister will govern with regulations in the future. You know, what would have been really good was for you to say some self-critical sentences about what Viktor Orbán might think about you and your fellow Members. What kind of certificate does Mr.Orbán issue about you, the 133 brave men, and the fact that Mr.Orbán is a member of the Council of Ministers? Which she puts you on and what she needs from you and what she doesn't need from you that this proposal has been presented in this form by the Hungarian government? Viktor Orbán and the government say that the reason we need it is, by the way, once again, to prolong the emergency situation and the regulation governance for an indeterminate period of time, because Parliament is not working in the summer. Really? The thing, my fellow Members, is that Fidesz KDNP Members in Dubai and the Maldives only managed to get a ticket on their way there? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: József Tobias!]] Is that the case, fellow Member? They could only buy the ticket on the way there? Because otherwise, this Parliament can be convened in June, July and August in exactly one day, and any serious decision must be made, perhaps finally giving people, families or companies money to avoid being ruined, the opposition representatives will be seen here the next morning. It is cynical to say that an emergency mandate is needed because the Hungarian Parliament does not work in the summer, and this is a certificate of themselves, my fellow Member, and, of course, it is for the pro-government representatives to provide the quorum and the majority. So, according to the government, you don't work in the summer, even during an emergency, even during an epidemiology period. It's more prosaic. It is simply that Viktor Orbán, as a drug, has taken advantage of this regulation's governance. He controls this country with legal decrees, as he was before 90, in that system. But I can also say the Patrents in the good old days, just as they are dear to you; that a government decree came out last night, which revealed that, by the way, the law could be rewritten, that the deficit could be raised, and that Hungary no longer has a stability goal, so it is okay if the deficit goes away, there is no problem. This, the Hungarian Parliament will settle the rule of two-thirds and half laws with the three sentences published in the Gazette at 10 a.m. That's what you need, and most of all for him, and for you, and I'll say it again, probably so that you can rest in peace, undisturbed in the summer. I very much hope, my honourable fellow Member, that the last time such a document is brought before Parliament once again is the last time. Because if it's not the last time, there are two reasons why he wouldn't want any of them, I hope nobody would. One of them is that the Hungarian government succeeds so well in the epidemiological defense that there will be a fourth wave, that there will be a problem again, and there may indeed be reason to declare an emergency in Hungary, because there will be mass diseases again. We would love that very much, and I wouldn't recommend that you run this country like this. The other option is that you really want to play a political game with this institution, and that the Prime Minister is given virtually quasi-king power to rule regulations, even until the end of the term. In that case, I don't have much to say to you. It will not be interesting what will happen here in the Chamber, but what will happen outside the Chamber and the building. I wouldn't wait for him if I were you. [[Nacsa Lawrence: So, what's it gonna be?]] so that the Hungarian people can be fired up with it. Yes, I have told you, I trust your imagination to my honourable fellow Member, if there is any more, although this has not been written in advance, it is a fact and a fact. What exactly do you need the authority for? For example, what is very famous and important is the free parking that almost managed to defeat the virus, but then not at the last minute. And the milk power of the mayors is, of course, something without which Hungary cannot, simply unable to exist. But it's more about what I've already mentioned, that, like last night, a government decree rewrites any laws that are important to you, or at least to your prime minister, and to his business, friendship, and family circle. In order to put billions, tens and hundreds of billions of dollars from the budget that Parliament has voted for, it is also the best way for friends, relatives, and friendly oligarchs to do what Viktor Orbán has to do in order to do what he wants in a decree. Because, by the way, he did not have enough time, patience or desire to give the Hungarian people 100% sick during the outbreak of the virus. Nor did he have time or patience to give Hungarian people and Hungarian companies the 80% wage support that everyone in the surrounding countries has received to help those closed sectors, including those working in the beauty industry, with non-refundable support, but many others whose business is ruined or the family's total savings, and they can either open up now or not. You didn't have to do that, so it probably won't be necessary in the future either. (Sándor Szabó in the notary seat) Replaced by gullible Dezso.) You have said many times, too, Mr. Secretary of State, the lead speaker of Fidesz, that the first is the protection of human life and health. Then let me repeat: the number of people who died is slowly at 28,000. Let me do it again. This in Austria, which is our laboratory, said Viktor Orbán last autumn, that is 10 100 people. If we look only at the recent times, when they also had all the means to make decisions with an emergency mandate, only in the last week in Austria the average weekly death is 22 people, and in Hungary 200 people. That's ten times that. Ten times! You can't justify anything, certainly not by what certain opposition parties said to one of the Eastern vaccines in January or February or what they didn't say. It has nothing to do with what we see here. Finally, fellow Members, they can explain, threaten, provoke hatred against us, this goes on, this is what we see, and there will be money and everything like that, nothing will change the fact that the government of Viktor Orbán and the 133 brave people of Fidesz and KDNP, who support them unconditionally and without thinking, will enter into Hungary's history book of people who have died in proportion to the number of people in the world. [[13.30]] That is the fact, my honourable fellow Member, and they cannot change that, no matter how they try to push this horribly difficult failure on anyone else. So I'm sure you won't be able to thank me for that. Finally, however, we would like to thank very much for the work of those who have done everything in these circumstances to save as many people as possible. Doctors, nurses, or soldiers serving at rennet points or in hospitals, who are involved in the purchase of vaccines, the general practitioners, and everyone who has done their job with their heads down beside such a cocky, conceited and unthankful government, have saved lives, and probably many of them have also been physically and psychologically destroyed. Well, thank you to them, not to you. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-04-29-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I now give the floor here in the pulpit to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[Gergely Arató enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2021-04-29-75	Dear House, I would like to pick up where my fellow Member Bellozó left off: we owe thanks to many. We owe thanks to many people, on behalf of the whole country, to health workers who struggle with the epidemic; to those general practitioners who organize and carry out vaccination under their usual duties; to teachers who go to kindergartens and schools and teach; to those social workers who are there for the sick or people in need; to those people working in shops who provide food for the country every day; and to the policemen who keep the order, the soldiers who help us, and we really do owe thanks to a lot of people. These are the people you abandoned and betrayed. These are the people who, because of your bad decisions and bad actions, are very often doing their job in very difficult circumstances. And I didn't tell you about the parents who were worried about letting their children go to kindergarten and school or studying with them at home because the digital education system you bought at large doesn't work. And I could keep going. We owe these heroes our thanks, and we have to help them. Who we don't owe thanks to and doesn't deserve our support is the government. The government that handled the outbreak with over 27,000 of our patriotism killed because of the coronal virus epidemic. And don't say that this is because of the third wave and the mutant, because there are third waves and mutants in other countries, but Hungary is one of 192 countries where most people died in proportion to their population because of the coronal virus. To Congressman Nacsa, who said that Hungary is handling the epidemic very well, how poorly the European Union is performing, I say that in the last week, four times as many people died in Hungary as in the European Union. Your disease management is so effective that a Hungarian citizen in Hungary has had four times more chances of dying in the last week than living elsewhere in Europe. You're asking for support for this disease management, and you're asking for authorisation for this disease management. Well, the Democratic Coalition certainly doesn't give them any support. We have made a fair offer, because we also think that national unity is important. What you are doing is unsatisfying and unsustainable, we said that you should acknowledge that you are not going to go, acknowledge that you have failed in the disease management and that the management of the epidemic in the legendary operational tribe should not be decided by Lajos Kósa and Viktor Orbán, but that you should hand over the control of the epidemic to professionals, and that an organization that controls an epidemic in which there are experts should rise. We would like to give our support to this, and we would like to give it an opportunity. We're not giving this government any kind of disease treatment. And then let's talk about dealing with the economic crisis. While hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs; while thousands of small businesses go bankrupt; while those who have to stay at home with their children can either use their freedom, or undertake to take the rest of their sick days and lose a significant portion of their income; while you have been laying down in Parliament initiatives aimed at ensuring that the government pays 100% of the sick money to those who want to stay at home with their children, or otherwise replace their income, or that just those teachers who are infected because they have attended school, provided 100 percent of the sick money, you have easily popped these suggestions. In addition to sports facilities, hunting world exhibitions, church renovations, you can always find money, find Lőrinc Mészáros for tourist development, and continue. You have wasted an amazing sum, 1300 billion forints from the budget, and have achieved the last, I don't know, since the highest, but at least ten years ago, the highest budget deficit has been redebted to the country without helping the people. I see Congressman Nacsa got the instructions on the phone, and then he'll tell you how to answer that. [[Nacsa shows Lőrinc's phone, then opens his arms.]] But until then, I'll go on. I must say, therefore, that you evacuated the state register without, by the way, helping small entrepreneurs in substance, helping people who have lost their jobs, helping the struggling pensioners who are strangled by precious things, or helping families who have to take on an extremely heavy burden. That's what you're asking for. Now, one thing they've always had the brains to do is strangle and pillage opposition-led municipalities to take away all the money they could withdraw, and then, of course, to give it back to their own people. But nothing to the opposition-led municipalities, because obviously citizens who did not vote for Fidesz do not deserve to live in normal circumstances. What are you asking permission to do now? To continue this, virtually unlimited. My fellow Members have already spoken about the fact that a rubber rule has been put in place, and they say that, then, when the Speaker decides, he will be in a mood to convene the first session of the Parliament's autumn session, and then perhaps the mandate will come to an end, or perhaps it will be extended again. But if, by chance, the government decides to terminate the mandate earlier, because in the success propaganda that Congressman Nacsa has said here, the disease management is very effective, while, I say, in Hungary, people are still dying in the highest number in the world, but in order to say that the disease management is successful, they will eliminate the emergency, they will only give the government a loophole that, yeah, but the government, of course, can keep what it wants in force, and they will highlight two positive measures, otherwise, the extension of the documents and the interoperability between the pockets of the SZÉP card, which I can guarantee you, bring to Parliament, we will now vote for it, even until the end of the year, to maintain these measures. Just don't add anything else, Mr. Secretary, because they're gonna say we voted against it. Yeah, because they added filling their own pockets. That's right, I don't want it in a package. But bring these measures here. Don't hide behind the parliamentary break. I am sure that all my patriotic opposition fellow Members will come to Parliament in the summer if you think this is necessary, and it is a positive measure for the people. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There will be few of you!]] Because, unfortunately, you are neither patriotic nor oppositional, and that's why you don't go to Parliament if you don't like it. But we'll be here when we need it. Do not hide behind Parliament, do not ask for a mandate that completely removes these measures from Parliament's scope. And how much parliamentary control is worth to you is very well indicated by the fact that they do not comply with the current Emergency Powers Act. Because it's the 3rd of this law. §2 of the Act provides that the Government shall report regularly at the Parliament's meeting on the measures taken in the context of the disease management. There was an example of this last year, by the way, last year the government actually did this. But what happened this year? Since February this year, the government has not had time to come into Parliament and to summarise what has happened otherwise in a pre-meeting statement. [[13.40]] That's their duty. That's what the law says. But you, I almost told you what you're doing to this law, let's just say you don't give a shit. That's what your guarantees are worth, and I have to say, that's the only reason we can't support this law. I would add, however, that Parliament's meetings have been thinned, and now there is only a three-week sitting schedule to answer even the opposition representatives' questions less often. And of course, we understand this opening thing, and why we have to maintain the emergency when it's open. Because football is the Prime Minister's hobby. That's why it's got to be possible to have a full-time soccer game on the dog. Drinking beer also seems to be the Prime Minister's hobby, so it should be possible to drink beer on the terraces. Unfortunately, democracy is not one of the Prime Minister's hobbies, so they maintain the emergency situation so that the municipalities can continue to fail to operate, the interim elections cannot be held, and so on; in Hungarian, people's freedoms and political freedoms can be further restricted. I could say, as usual, that there's a lot more out of the horse than his leg. This is what you need the emergency for, which has always been necessary, because what is a substantive measure that serves the interests of the country can be accepted here, without circumventing Parliament, and would have received support not only from the majority, but also from the opposition, I am sure. Just as I am referring to this briefly received the support of the Parliament for the increase in doctors' wages, and of course they did not receive the support of the government regulations and did not ask for Parliament's support, which introduced this increase on the basis that thousands of health workers had left the health care sector in the middle of the epidemic. [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] I told you, Congressman, you just weren't paying attention. Again, we voted in favour of the wage increase, and we did not vote in favour of the government decree that you lied about turning the whole wage increase back on and setting impossible conditions for it. Congressman Nacsa's comment was refreshingly honest, as usual, because he made it clear that you do not have any disease control or other intentions here, nor with this whole debate or with this emergency. You have nothing but political intentions. You have found another opportunity to defy the opposition in a false way, in a misconception. I have to say, of course, that's where your worldview goes. While people are dying, and while they've destroyed the country economically, they think that lying can win the election again. It's the only thing they're capable of doing-- pushing propaganda out of every pipe. Of course, you can do that, but the voters will judge you for it. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-76	Thank you. The next speaker is Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-04-29-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I can say very briefly at the beginning that the position of the LMP fraction should be quite clear: you have not used the extraordinary mandate, but have abused it. Therefore, the LMP fraction will not, of course, give you the authority to govern the regulation again, to maintain the extraordinary legal order. Let us first look very briefly at how they intend to extend the exceptional legal order and regulation governance in particular. The procedure applied, which you have just presented to the Parliament, is even odd compared to your previous laws, because they do not want to make the extension of the extraordinary legal order a specific date, but to the beginning of the autumn session. And my fellow Members have already said that it will, in effect, be subject to the Speaker's decision as to how long you have the power to govern the regulation, how long the legal order will remain so. This is also a completely incomprehensible and otherwise unnecessary measure, as my fellow Members have said. This is unacceptable, the LMP fraction does not give its name, the LMP fraction will press no. If you do this, and obviously we have no illusion that you will do so, it will be entirely up to the government to determine how you operate the entire political institutional system. This will not only determine the possibilities of the Parliament, but also have an extremely significant impact on the functioning of the local governments, and we can clearly see that it will not even be possible to hold referendums. So, if we were just looking at the facts in a slick way of extending the extraordinary legal order and regulation governance, we would have said no to that. Allow me so many reactions, Congressman Nacsa; I have listened to your speech; it was quite terrible. We can say that this has been the lowest of the whole very long parliamentary year, as you are allowed in such a tragic situation. The country is experiencing a great tragedy and an extremely deep crisis, and you have used more than three quarters of your speech to abuse the opposition. That's really sad. I think that, as a responsible Member of Parliament, at least in his voice, we should have chosen a different way of speaking, with a different tone, and exercise self-criticism for all those mistakes and missed measures or for decisions that have been abused by the extraordinary legal order, so that we can at least see self-criticism on the part of the government in any way. You have failed to do so. And allow me one more thing, fellow Members of the Government. You have a recurring abuse that in any way the opposition would have attacked the professionals involved in the defence. I'm just giving you an example that highlights your credibility. At the beginning of October, Balázs Orbán, one of your State Secretarys, attacked and accused one of the professors of virology that the head of the research group of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology drew attention in October, during the October period, to delays in the government's actions and ran away. On this television, Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán said that there were such alarms during the first wave, and the numbers stabilized. So this was said in early October on a television. That's pretty amazing. You attacked the professor you asked yourself in a mean way on television, and you said at the beginning of October that the numbers had stabilized. This tells us everything about your credibility, and it tells us everything about the shameful attitude in which this crisis has been dealt with. And then let's be specific as to why I claim that you have abused the extraordinary authority and the extraordinary legal order. The result has indeed been said by my fellow Members that you have had every opportunity and every mandate, regulation governance, two-thirds and everything else to protect this country from this tragic situation. But what we can tell you is that economic protection has become insufficient, and we can also see why it has become, so what measures have caused serious damage and what measures have been taken to deepen the crisis and bring us into this situation, that everyone has to face an extremely deep and prolonged economic crisis. As one of the first measures, when they were given the extraordinary mandate before winter, they immediately launched another attack on the municipalities. Thus, a series of brutal restrictions has been enforced, additional resources have been taken from the municipalities in the situation where the municipalities are the number one bastion of defence and have done extremely important tasks to protect the population. We know that, in this crisis, local governments have already lost a huge amount of revenue, and you have not been interested in it, and that further restrictions have been imposed on local governments. I would add that this question has not been corrected since then. It can be seen that the cities under the population of 25,000 have been automatically compensated, and that the above, typically opposition-led castles have been no longer compensated. They've been blackmailing them ever since. In fact, they've only spent a little time trying to negotiate meaningfully, but your decision is clear that they won't help these municipalities. Congressman Nacsa has mentioned earlier today that the municipalities are for the people. That's right, Your Honour. You know very well that the municipalities are typically responsible for the provision of the most important public services, such as drinking water, sanitation, public lighting, public transport, social care, and I could tell you more. And you are endangering the performance of these public tasks by diverting the resources needed for them from the municipalities. So you have such an intention to carry out some kind of petty political revenge for losing the 2019 municipal election, but you are not punishing the mayors and city leaders of the opposition cities, but the people who live there. In particular, they cause serious damage to Hungarian people by making it impossible to maintain public services. I have spoken here in Parliament many times about the situation of the most important public service, the supply of drinking water. In particular, the competent companies and professional organisations have asked for immediate assistance and for an extension from the payment of public works tax, for example. You didn't give me that. A measure has been taken to divert the resources of public support for local public transport. This has also made the task of community transport almost impossible for the municipalities to resolve this on their own. On the other hand, of course, municipalities were attacked when measures were taken to reduce the density of flights. By the way, this was done by the Fidesz President of the County City Association, Mayor of Kaposvár, Károly Sita, who had quite amazingly reduced the density of local flights in Kaposvár, instead of feeling responsible for his own city and protesting about the outrageous government measures that took these funds away. [[13.50]] But to discuss in particular what measures you have taken by regulation: we can say that it was one of the harshest and symbolic cases of your entire disease management, when Lőrinc Mészáros's hotel chain received 18 billion dollars of Hungarian taxpayers' money while Lőrinc Mészáros collected 11.5 billion forints of dividends from his construction companies. And after that, the hotel chain of Lőrinc Mészáros fired 800 people. So in this situation, when you abandoned the most difficult families in Hungary, you maintained the enrichment of Lőrinc Mészáros with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. That was a completely outrageous measure. And likewise, we have brought a great deal of proposals before the Parliament, which you have voted against; by the way, at the meeting of the Economic Commission, on such cynical grounds that, unfortunately, there is no money. We demanded that you increase the period of payment of the unemployment allowance from three months to nine months. We calculated that it would have cost about HUF 85-86 billion. And you said there was no source for that. On the other hand, the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project will be spent only 200 billion forints in the two years of the crisis. So, in support of the most difficult situations of families, people who lost their livelihoods, you said that there was no money, that from the other side, more than double of it was spent on the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project. But likewise, the intention of 400-450-500-550 of the government to spend billions on the campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest was not repeated. So there was no money, there was no 86 billion forints to help families who really lost their livelihoods, instead they want a huge amount of money, they are about to spend a truly amazing investment, of course, the details of which are not yet presented to the Hungarian taxpayers. Similarly, the documents of the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project were encrypted about a year ago, and this amount, spent only in two years, would have been equivalent to the creation of 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs. Compared to this, Congressman Nacsa said this week, in the debate, that, well, this project creates a lot of jobs, but in particular, he could not confirm that it would create more than 175 thousand, which you have sacrificed specifically. So we can say that during the critical period of the epidemic and during a severe crisis, you have opposed the interests of the Hungarian nation. We can also see what cynical measures are being taken these days. So a pretty amazing piece of information came out on the government info today. What did you use this extraordinary legal order for? But in parallel, what were they doing? Congressman Nacsa resented one of my opposition fellow Members for listing measures in the long-term list of your abuses that were not carried out by regulation, but by Parliament. But, honourable Congressman Nacsa, not so long ago you were fired by the European People's Party. [[Nacsa Lawrence is shaking his head.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, KDNP is left in the left-wing plague, isn't it, in the European People's Party, it's always read to my eyes by KDNP representatives, Fidesz is fired, you're left in the left-wing People's Party. It's obviously a problem between you, and you'll solve it between yourselves. But when Fidesz was fired by the European People's Party, the leading Fidesz politicians on Facebook could not complain about how shameful it is to see what the People's Party group is dealing with while there is such an epidemiological situation. Well, that is why the Hungarian people, honourable Member Nacsa, and Honourable Secretary of State, rightly ask what you are dealing with during a serious epidemic, whether in the Parliament or by regulation: for example, the outsourcing of public wealth, the privatisation of the entire almost complete Hungarian state higher education and placing it under political control. But, Mr Secretary of State, we have been hearing for weeks or perhaps months that huge EU development resources have been coming to higher education, and that is why we need to quickly push universities into fidesz political direction through a process that has lied about changing models. Today, Gergely Gulyás announces with such a loose wrist movement that there is no access to universities, there is no access to higher education from EU development resources. Because you've decided to use only a part of it, and that's why you can't, so obviously from the central budget, either you don't or you don't know where you're going to put development resources into higher education. So you explain for weeks that the reason why we have to outsource the entire Hungarian state higher education during the critical period of the epidemic is that it was obviously also a huge lie so that EU development resources can be spent effectively. They'll tell you that what they're recording, you know, non-refundable funding, it's not gonna get to universities, it's gonna be solved another time, from another source, or it's not gonna be solved. It's a good question of what's going to happen, but it also shows how shameful what you've done lately has been. So what I can say, ladies and gentlemen, is that your responsibility in all respects is the tragedy that has arisen in Hungary, and your responsibility is also the deep economic crisis that we can all unfortunately feel, and I think that for the entire Hungarian society this will be a very, very long, tragic and difficult process. This is all your responsibility, and with all due respect, I ask my fellow Members to accept this, to participate in such a parliamentary debate with due humility, and to review the measures that they have taken, the actions that have taken against the shameful and Hungarian national interests, and to finally adopt the opposition proposals aimed at reducing the burden on Hungarian citizens who are in difficulty in this situation. Then allow me one more thing, fellow Members. You can see that during this period you have forgotten to face a lot of system problems, while the public wealth has been excavated to an astonishing extent. But here are running projects, such as the multi-billion-dollar project of the Paks expansion, one of your Eastern openings, I don't know, crown jewels, and thousands of billion-dollar loans from the Russians. In parallel, in a one-year perspective, about 1100 billion in debt has been made or prepared for China, but this Paks expansion project appears to be bleeding from a thousand wounds. This is an extremely important issue, perhaps not disputed by my fellow Members, hundreds of thousands of pages of authorisation documents, Russian authorisation documents have been submitted to the authorities, and today we read that the Director General of the National Atomic Energy Office has resigned. Well, what is going on in this country, Mr. Secretary of State, honourable Members? ! You want to have new nuclear power station blocks approved, and in this process, while, of course, we are almost no longer receiving information about this in Parliament, the authorising authority, the director-general of the competent authority, has resigned. What's happening in this country? When will it finally happen that you come in before the agenda, say, a minister, so that you can ask questions about such important matters? That's pretty amazing. So, in this situation, you have not only failed crisis management, you have not only failed people, but you have shown complete inadequacy on fundamental, extremely important issues that determine the future of the nation, unfortunately causing enormous damage to the entire country. At the end of my comment, I would like to say what I say every time a parliamentary week begins: we respectfully thank everyone who is working today to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people and has worked for the past year. It can be seen that for many people this was a huge and heroic commitment under extremely difficult circumstances that would otherwise have been the responsibility of the government. So thank you very much for all the work that has been done to protect the health of Hungarian people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-78	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik.
u2021-04-29-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is asking the Parliament to give its consent to the extension of the emergency until autumn. In order to be able to have a meaningful debate on this very important issue at all, it is necessary to clarify a very, very important thing. Are we still at war with the virus or not? As long as you don't have a clear answer to that question, it doesn't make sense what we're arguing about here. If we are at war with the virus, as the government has said, then of course it may be justified to maintain an emergency, but we must immediately close everything that has been opened in this country last week: from terraces to sports facilities on the threshold of re-opening, all of them. And if the answer to this question is that we're no longer at war with the virus, because it's an epidemic that's going to be going down between us for a few more weeks, and then it's only gonna be a passing bad, painful memory, then, of course, you can reopen the country, open up restaurants, cafes, sports facilities. But if that's the case, if there's no war with the virus, then there's no need for regulation or this or that. A decision must be made, my honourable pro-government colleagues, which is true, and two cannot be true at the same time. It is not possible to go to weddings soon, to hold meetings of hundreds, but to govern by decree. It is not possible that the pubs and restaurants can open, but the municipalities are kept closed. The two just don't synchronize, they don't overlap. [[14.00]] As a Member of the Civic Response Parliament, I have made two proposals in the last few days. One was to allow municipal meetings, the functioning of the body of representatives, to be allowed again. If it is possible to go everywhere, then give the opportunity once again to allow those representatives of the local government who have been elected to exercise their right to represent the people who live there, to finally hold meetings, to exercise the powers of their representatives, and, more importantly, as my fellow Member László Keresztes has suggested, to recover the funds that have been taken aside from the powers taken, the resources that have been taken away, and the sources of revenue that they can barely provide the basic functions in the fight against the virus. And my second point is that there is not enough talk about it, even though it is potentially affecting more than 100,000 people, they will soon be graduating. Written graduation exams will be carried out in such a way that students who will be quarantined or suspected of being Covid or who cannot take the written graduation exam for any reason will be able to do so in the autumn. I don't have a replacement right now. That means these people are losing a year of their lives, one year of their admissions. No one is thinking about them, fellow Members. This does not require an emergency, such decisions, regulations or decisions, together with an emergency or without an emergency, you can accept them if there is a political will. Unfortunately, I see that there is no political intention. What there is a political will to do, but there have been plenty of examples of where resources should be redirected, and no real problems can be solved. If this were to be done, if at least some of the resources taken away from them were to be recovered from the municipalities, we might even be willing to think about supporting the extension of the emergency. If we could see at least a minimum of sincere intent to use this emergency for what it is for, not for what it was used for in the last few months, for the last year. I ask you to decide whether or not you want to make the decisions you need to make. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Attila Móring József.)
u2021-04-29-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Benchik. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-04-29-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani Gospodine Državni Tajniče! In view of the fact that T15997. The draft law on the amendment of Act I of 2021 on the control of the corona virus pandemic concerns the exercise of nationality rights, the functioning of the local governments, institutions and civil society organisations of the ethnic communities of Hungary, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary as a committee for the debate on 26 April 2021. It has adopted its opinion with regard to Article 5 thereof. Our committee expresses its condolences to the memory of those who died in the epidemic and shares the grief of their relatives. We express our thanks for the hard work of the people working in the health care sector. We also give our appreciation to public administrations, public service workers, who have also ensured the country's viability during the pandemic. Since the emergency announced on 12 March 2020, the protection of the health and life of citizens remains a priority, for which the extension of the scope of the law provides an appropriate legal framework. In order to alleviate the economic damage caused by the epidemic and to preserve jobs, quick and effective decision-making is needed. In addition to extending the validity of the provisions to date, the Government is hereby authorised to take measures to be taken in the future. The proposal provides for authorisation based on the Fundamental Law pending the expiry of the law. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to draw attention to the regulatory problems of issues relating to national law enforcement, public education self-government and cultural autonomy in the period up to the amended scope of the law. Of course, it is essential to maintain the transitional rules for the dissolution of the body of national authorities and for the holding of interim elections. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is in line with the economic situation that the duration of implementation of the projects undertaken by national minority organisations resulting from the current grant relationship and their related reporting obligation are extended to the same extent as the duration of the emergency. CXXVIII of 2011 on disaster management and amending certain related laws. Law 46. Paragraph 4 of the Act provides that the tasks and powers of the body of representatives and assembly of the minority self-government shall be exercised by the President in an emergency. The mandate given to the President allows the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 91. The municipality shall comply with its obligation to discharge the accounts provided for in Article 5 of the Decision of the Normative President until the last day of the fifth month following the budget year 2020, but in the interest of publicity and accountability, it would be appropriate to establish a transitional rule and to regulate that the discharge decision for the budget year 2020 has to be submitted to the Board in such a way that it enters into force no later than 30 days after the end of the emergency. This regulation is analogue to the final accounts for 2019 when it was also an emergency period. XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. As set out in Annex 10 to Law No 10, the State provides budgetary support for the performance of the public tasks of local self-governments. The most important element of funding is task-based support, the conditionality of which determines the source of the activities of the national minority self-government in the cultural autonomy next year. On the basis of the proposal before us, it is expected that the organisation of the nationality tasks on which the points are available will continue to be limited for the remainder of the year. It would be appropriate to establish transitional arrangements for the period, as happened in December of last year. The extension of the emergency period affects, of course, national education and education organisations and the exercise of the governing and ownership rights of national authorities with institutions. We hope that presenceal education will become general as a result of the measures. We hope that the 2021-2022 academic year can start in accordance with the pre-pandemic order, the successful launch of which requires that the minority authorities have a decision-making license. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 81. In the case of other maintainers, a maintenance decision, including a management mandate, application, self-management of nationalities, may be taken only with the agreement of the national minority self-government and with the request for an opinion. However, the cited Disaster Protection Act 46. § 4 further provision states that the President exercising municipal rights shall not take a position on the reorganisation, termination of a municipal institution, or the supply of services, if the service also affects the municipality. Management appointments, acceptance of educational and educational institutions, restructuring, modification of operating permits, taking into account the number of entries that have taken place, will take place during the period July to August. On the basis of the foregoing, we consider that this legal conflict should be resolved from the date of entry into force of the proposal, from 22 May, not only in relation to public education institutions, but also in respect of cultural institutions. Dear House, To date, only legislation and the compliance behaviour of society's actors have been a means of protecting themselves against the more than one year of a coronal virus epidemic, which will be further strengthened by the proposal before us. One of the most effective vaccination programmes in Europe is currently under way, and we expect it to lead to the lifting of restrictions as soon as possible, the stability of the economic situation and the launch of growth. On behalf of the nationalities in Hungary, I ask everyone to register and be vaccinated following the recommendations of health professionals. Our Commission considers that further authorisation within the framework of the proposal is essential for achieving the objectives of protection. Members of Parliament are asked to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill, taking into account our proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[14.10]]
u2021-04-29-82	Thank you very much. Good day and good work, everyone. Before we get to the two-minute speeches, on behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister for Justice, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, spoke. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-04-29-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I may not have been able to make the deadline for an emergency clear enough in the expose. So if you read carefully, honourable Members, either the provisions of the Fundamental Law or the Act on Parliament, you know that there is a spring and autumn session. The spring session runs from February to 15 June, and the autumn from 1 September to 15 December, so the Parliament will be convened within this period, and it will be possible to calculate the 15 days from the date when the emergency will otherwise expire under this law. We will confirm it in writing, of course, and I will send it in a separate letter if someone still has this question open and they cannot calculate the time so, but I tell you, this will also appear in the resolution when it becomes relevant. I would also like to clarify, however, that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, can quote the exact statements of anti-vaccination by date, as I seem to note, that the front line of protection is indeed the vaccination, and in this we ask that the category of proof should be left behind after an open confrontation, precisely so that everyone can defend themselves with a calm soul and trusting doctors, and that they can protect the lives and health of others. More people also used very strong terms, such as, sickly, pampered or, in a self-righteous way, associated with death statistics. It is well known that everyone in Hungary is registered as Covid ill and dead, in whom the virus can be detected, unlike statistics from other states, where it may only be marked when it is listed as exclusive deaths. I recommend to everyone that Eurostat's data will be available, so that you will have a reliable EU resource, where, based on virtually state statistics, we can establish, let us say, the surplus mortality rate compared to the 2019 base data for the year 2020 and then the year 21, which was also mentioned by the Prime Minister, and quoted precisely because there was a problem with not naming the source, even though he said that referring to EU statistics, where practically from behind, he also mentioned that Hungary is 8th, 9th place compared to other Member States. We didn't know about any other epidemics in the past, so it's probably the coronal virus that's responsible for this anomaly in terms of mortality statistics. The other, as far as the government's responsibility is concerned, since the outbreak began, the government has provided all the resources and all the means to ensure that the conditions of protection are given. This is precisely why emergency regulation is needed, for example, in order to be able to act in an operational, rapid manner when it comes to ventilating machines, masks, or the purchase of any other means, or, in fact, the settlement of health wages, which facilitates the appreciation and maintenance of workers. Here, I would refer back to comparing the figures for 2010 and the current figures, how many thousands more people work in healthcare than before 2010. So it's not true that people were driven out of health care here. The other part of the matter is that all the details of the regulation are not clearly explained, but if you think about settling the situation of gratuity money or separating the functions of private health and public health, then again you can only find explanations that there were those who continued their activities in private health and not in public health, because they could not carry on duality as before, but they are also there in this care, serving the population and health care. I could also refer to the plight of the municipalities here, and we all know that the municipalities below 25 thousand have received compensation for the loss of business tax on small and medium-sized enterprises and full compensation. [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] the House has adopted the regulation on this, so this is also a strong slippage. [[Depreciation in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] The other is that the municipalities must, of course, take part in the defence, and thank God, they will stand up and participate in it. What doesn't work is that the state alone, as a actor, is willing to bear all the burdens of this. Thank God, whether we are thinking of the social and civil sphere or the local governments, churches, everyone is doing their job and is in this difficult situation and they are doing everything they can to get this over with as soon as possible. It has been said by my fellow Member Benchik that we are now at war with the virus or not at war. Now, if I wanted to quote a war metaphor, I could say that they were still drinking coffee on the terraces in Budapest in the autumn of 44, while we know that the battles were going on beyond the Tiszantúl. [[Gergely Arató and János Bencsik intervene.]] Technically, let's say the Debrecen armored battle. So war has a nature that doesn't always take place completely and in one place, so it has degrees, just like defense. The other part is that we're talking about a double thing. So, on the one hand, there is the protection of life and health, which is the first place, on the other hand, which is also very important, the protection of existentials, families, for which the economy must be run, or even trade, because without the supply, there would be no provision, and the economy, as the epidemic situation improves or the number of vaccinations goes forward, must be liberated and restarted. There have also been false data on employment. Have a look at the KSH data, Congressman Lu-Kács. I report that according to March data, there are 41,000 more employees in Hungary than a year ago, which is more than 60,000 compared to the current February data. So this kind of vision you're trying to suggest here is mass unemployment, thank God, in this form it's not true. Again, I would go back to the amnesia of you and your allies, that in 2010, there were 12 percent unemployment figures, because during the crisis management at that time, practically, as Mrs. Dobrev told Klára Gyurcsány said, they missed because they didn't help the people, they helped the banks. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! István Hollik: Yes!]] Perhaps it is worth noting that, because it is an important addition in this story. I could go further, and I would be happy to comment, of course, but one more topic for the municipalities. In 2010, the local government's debt was well over HUF 1000 billion, and today they have funds, as you say, of the much-damaged capital, and of the almost HUF 200 billion surplus that István Tarlós left for Gergely Christmas, almost HUF 100 billion is still available. Therefore, any slippage that the municipalities would not be able to cope with and have no resources for normal operation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-84	Thank you very much. Now we have two-minute speeches, more. The representative of Jobbik, László György Lukács, is first. Here.
u2021-04-29-85	Thank you very much. I have prepared a counter-choice for Congressman Nacsa in a style in which Lőrinc Nacsa used to put it. The situation is clear: Lőrinc Nacsa and Viktor Orbán want to divert attention from the fact that most people die in Hungary, and you were, and they want to divert attention from this, who have made people insecure about the risk of the virus. Remember the words of Gergely Gulyás, I'd be happy to say a date if necessary, 19 March 2020:.We can also see and say that we, who are present in this room, even if the ladies are ageless, can safely infect each other, with only the symptoms of an unpleasant flu. , Müller Cecília, 26 March 2020:, If we are not sick, we do not have to wear masks. Müller Cecília wanted to talk people out of wearing masks, the device that probably saved most people's lives in the last year and prevented infection. But we can move on. Muller Cecília, at the top of the epidemic, said that he didn't say otherwise then: "I ask you to do everything you can to get infected and need hospital treatment. But I can also invite one of your favourite doctors, János Szlávik, who said at the time of departure in the Hungarian Nation that the coronal virus alone is incompetent to cause a global epidemic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.20]] So, my honourable fellow Member, in reply, I will say the same thing as you. He could have started by apologizing to the people and apologizing for their persistence among you who misled them about the virus. We are at the point that the virus dictated the pace that the country couldn't handle, so Hungary is a world record in the death of a million people. Taste this number, taste this fact, that's what everyone says. Don't count extra mortality, official coronal viral death. If you report such data, this is your data, and this is Hungary's data. If it weren't for that kind of data, it wouldn't have been for that kind of regulation. It's too late to hide. One last quote. Your prime minister said that the success of defense is measured in human lives, and they failed because we are the world's leading cause of death.
u2021-04-29-86	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to a two-minute comment, Mr László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, Member, has just called attention to a very interesting and important question by stating that he will reply in turn. In the history of Hungarian parliamentarianism, it is very worthwhile to unravel this exciting linguistic ingenuity together, because it is. rejoining, as a return, and not a counter-answer, that is to say, on the contrary. But this is not an opposition or a pro-government category. I was just trying to give Congressman László Szakács enough time to prepare. [[It's a rare applause. Nacsa Lőrinc: Partially inclined!]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-29-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had time to prepare, by the way, because my fellow Member Nacsa said that that was what the government had to deal with. No, I didn't. That's what you've been communicating about. I'll tell you what they did. During the time when the country is really fighting for lives, a lot of people are working in health care, unfortunately a lot of people lose their jobs, a lot of people lose family members, a lot of tragedy, but you're talking about something, let's see what you're doing. China, the Chinese Communist Party, took out a loan of HUF 1200 billion. From December 28th to 29th, they increased the deficit by HUF 2554 billion in one night. In October, by the way, taken from the defense fund, in Hungarian, people's table took 82 billion forints on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the other Chinese project. [[Attila Mesterházy: Amazing!]] They spent 69 billion forints on a hunting exhibition, Mr. Secretary of State. The stadium in Nyíregyháza also had to be built now, because at other times, the price of this price increased to HUF 19 billion only during the epidemic, and they also spent HUF 75 billion on the Mátra Power Plant. Now, that's what you've been dealing with. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] Until yesterday, because yesterday, 1000 billion forints were sent to the foundations, which Parliament will no longer have a view of. Let's count this quickly. Only what was taken out of the register and spent on something that could have been worth 245 billion forints, as opposed to what was spent on families, my honourable fellow Member. Your Prime Minister was here, he told me, forints 27 and 33 billion, that's no more than 60. That's what they paid for pay compensation, and for my friends $245 billion. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines. Attila Mesterházy: Amazing!]]
u2021-04-29-88	Thank you very much. DK representative Zoltán Varga is coming in two minutes. Here.
u2021-04-29-89	Thank you very much. I'll be in a hurry. Mr President, Dear House, Let me complete the words of György László Lukács. He told us about what happened; we don't know why. So March 26, 2020, Müller Cecília:. If we are not sick, we may even be harmful to the mask. Why did you say that? Because there were no masks. Gergely Gulyás, 19 March 2020:, Here in this room we can safely infect each other. Why did you say that? Because they don't test me, they don't have contact research, and I have to add, they don't now. Operative, September 24, 2020: The Super Cup is the safest place. Why did they say that? They said that because your boss wanted to booze. September 2020, Orbán:, I look at the number of deaths in the first place, so Hungary measures the success of defense in human lives. Why did you say that? Because he's pompous because he's arrogant! September 18th, 2020:, All the responsibilities of the government must be borne, of course, by me. Why did you say that? Well, that would be nice to know, because one word of it wasn't true. December 2020:, Whose eyes do you throw up on people dying? I'm not a virus. Why did you say that? Because he's a coward, a little preschooler who hides behind 133 of the bravest people. January 2021: The virus was taken down to the wrestling carpet. Why did Viktor Orbán say that? Why did you say that? I'd like to know. It's probably because he's already twisted into his own power and communication. And where are we now? 29 April 2021: 186 patients still deceased, 27 258 deaths. You should be proud of that. You can be here, otherwise you can be mechanical with the numbers. Hungary is the worst performer in the world, and you are deceiving the country, and this is a disgrace! Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-90	Thank you. László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP!
u2021-04-29-91	Thank you. Mr President, Mr. Secretary, I suggest you listen to the KDNP fraction. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa talked long about the fact that Parliament was operating continuously, so that during the most difficult period of the epidemic, Parliament continued to operate, presenting a multitude of laws that had nothing to do with defence. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] That is so, therefore, there is no need for you, Mr Secretary of State, to outsource the powers of Parliament towards regulation governance for an uncertain period of time, but not until at least autumn, but precisely for a limited period of time. So the Parliament was able to function during the most serious period of the epidemic, so I cannot imagine any rational reason why they want to outsource the work of the Parliament for a completely uncertain period of time, the operation of the Parliament. Do you want to go on vacation? I can say, and I think my fellow opposition Members are here, that in an epidemiological situation, a Member of Parliament should be in Parliament. We will participate at any time if we have to make decisions that are important to the Hungarian people, we will come. I suggest that you withdraw your vacations booked, participate in the work of the Parliament, and there will be no need for extraordinary legal order. I have another question, Mr. Secretary. At the time of the first wave, it was already apparent that there was a great deal of abuse, especially in Fidesz mayors, with a certain rule that in extraordinary legal order the mayor could exercise the powers of the board in one person alone. There were then also messages from the government, and perhaps Minister Gulyás explained that this was not the case, because, in fact, the mayors have such powers in connection with the epidemiological measures. Compared to this, Fidesz mayors have a very impressive level of abuse. I could give you two extreme examples: one Szekszárd and the other Komló, where the mayors specifically use the extraordinary legal order, do not have the majority of the board to overwrite the decisions taken by the general assembly or to accept the city's budget in one person. This situation must be brought to an end, Mr. Secretary of State. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-29-92	Thank you very much. I ask for understanding and tolerance from Secretary of State Völner, because Mrs Dúró is indeed a very old pre-ordered speaker. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Just checking in.]] So I'm asking you to accept this from me, that I'm going to give it to him. Congresswoman, Dóra Dúró, an independent congressman is coming. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As an anti-lock party, the Hungarian Movement cannot contribute to the government carrying out the same inconsistent epidemic treatment that it has presented over the past year. The vaccination book is the latest amazing measure against which we strongly protest, and we are the only party in Hungary that rejects it, because it is unfair, deceitful, unreasonable and discriminatory. Quite simply, you lie that the vaccination itself will not be mandatory, but in fact, the vaccination book will make it so. They're telling us that we're gonna get our lives back, that if we can fight the plague, only those who get their lives back. Those who want to decide for some reason not to take advantage of this option cannot get their lives back, they cannot attend events, they cannot go to restaurants, they cannot attend cultural events, they cannot go into sports facilities, and I can tell you what other services you have attached to them. It is called coercion, my fellow Members, and even a straighter, more honest way would be to say that vaccination is compulsory. But they're cowards. They say anyone who doesn't get vaccinated should continue to sit at home in the room. But not only is this an outrageous measure, but the control of this is simply completely unviable. Imagine a time when a couple go to a restaurant for dinner, and since a waiter or a restaurant operator cannot ask the guest for an ID card, he has no right to do so, he can ask for the vaccination book. The vaccination book is not a photo ID, so I can go there with anyone's vaccination book, and I say I'm Mrs.James Gips, this is my vaccination card, and I'm gonna sit in the restaurant. [[14.30]] What's gonna happen? Obviously, the police, who can get a person certified, can check these restaurants at random, although the operator will have the responsibility to check it, without otherwise having the right to do so will result in an absolutely amazing mess. But let's just think that during a romantic dinner, a policeman will come up and jog your shoulder, so that you may be kind enough to pull out your ID card, because I'm checking that you have a vaccination book, a dear guest; instead of patrolling the villages where two elderly people are killed and stabbed for a ham, as was recently done in Kisláng, or that they're dealing with Muhammad who was in Hungary thanks to your migrant scholarship and stabbed his wife last week. That would be the job of the police rather than harassing people who, by the way, want their lives back. The introduction of all these things is also inconsistent, because, for example, those people in the workplaces will continue to work, and they will also interact with people in shopping centres who are vaccinated or not vaccinated, so they will remain part of the community, and our country Movement wants to avoid being a second-class citizen because it makes a different decision about a voluntary vaccination. But we got used to inconsistencies even when casinos were kept open, while no restaurant could be open in Hungary, even if it would have allowed people to enter on a square meter scale, and the disinfection was solved, the ventilation was solved, even so they wouldn't be allowed to keep them open, but the casinos could function comfortably, and we saw footage that otherwise no epidemiological measures were observed. Your cruelty also shows that the school closures have been reordered, but otherwise the parents have not been granted any additional leave to do so. As early as last year, the freedom of families, parents, to supervise their children at home because of digital education, had to do so again, and they did not receive any additional leave or assistance to do so anyway. Their inconsistencies are also included in the deadline for this proposal, and I can honestly say that I cannot place it. Viktor Orbán said, I quote, that the vaccination will solve everything. The vaccination will solve everything. And the Prime Minister also said that by the end of July they would be able to immunize the entire adult population. Then what else do you want here in October? What? If everything works out at the end of July, then what do you need a warrant for by October? Well, a normal person obviously sees that the answer to that question is that they want to abuse that authority. And I have one more question about the summer, fellow Members. Aren't you really ashamed to say you're not coming to work this summer? Are you sure you're not ashamed to say that when you're standing next to sick beds with a year of hard work? Don't you think they'd love to go on vacation in the summer? They're the only ones who can't do it. They will continue to endure. They will continue to be there every day. They will still not sleep if it turns out they will not eat; they will work to save our countrymen. And you're telling me you're not gonna come in all summer to press three buttons? Do you really dare to do this in this situation? It's a pretty amazing insolence. It's pretty amazing. Shame on you for that. Well, everyone, the whole country's been struggling for a year to overcome the plague, and you can't come in this summer to extend your mandate to your own prime minister? Shocking! Amazing! And while little people get ruined, a lot of people lose their loved ones, while there are a lot of people who get rich. Not Hungary as the state is getting rich, because we are constantly increasing our public debt, not even during the Bokros package, and you continue to take out loans and only think about the debt of the state instead of taxing the beneficiaries of the Crown Virus. Because there are such things, imagine. Every day the news comes out that the digital giant companies are deciding over and over again! the record of their income. Both Google and Microsoft. Microsoft, by the way, excuse me, I have to stop here, so Microsoft was able to raise the price of its family package just in the time of digital education and home office, so that's no small brazenness, while they also have increased their income and profits. So Google, Microsoft, Facebook has made amazing profits in the last year as never before. But I could also mention the multinational trade chains, not to mention the various casinos that could have been open when no one else could otherwise have been open. But the giant companies in the pharmaceutical industry have also gained an amazing income that we have not seen in Hungary before. Well, why don't you just levy an epidemic solidarity tax on these companies? At least to their extra profit. Why can't you tax it and get the government's income from those who, while everyone else is miserable and everyone else is living with resignations, they're still just filling their pockets? These sources could at least ensure that public debt does not increase to such an extent as it has grown in the last year. But the most important question is death. Every single person we've lost is a huge loss, and it can't be compared to any other economic loss. However, in relation to mortality data, it is very important to take into account two factors, one of which is the state in which this epidemic has affected Hungarian health. It's a disaster. The second question is the state in which the Hungarian population has been affected by this epidemic, and I would like to add two data, both of which exacerbate the course of the disease caused by the coronal virus. Ladies and gentlemen, We are the most obese nation in Europe. We've been through this kind of disease. And in the European Union, we are the sixth most smoking nation. Obviously, in such a base situation, the mortality rate will be higher among the population. But why didn't we seize the opportunity to increase people's health awareness; but not by forcing them to be vaccinated, but by telling them that yes, a healthier way of life must be pursued. But what did the government do? It closed the objects that provided sports opportunities, closed them, and caused the greatest harm among young people. On average, a Hungarian citizen gained five kilograms during the epidemic, so the ten million Hungarian population gained an average weight of 50 million kilograms. How many years will that cost us? 50 million kilograms of obesity. Why don't we talk about that? Why don't we talk about the five percent increase in suicides as a result of the closures? While Hungary has been declining year after year for decades, it has now grown. These are the mental consequences of the closures that were unreasonable and caused this effect in humans. But we also need to talk about people whose health care has not been or has not been achieved because of the coronal virus, such as the absence of screening tests. For example, NGOs dealing with breast cancer predict that the number of deaths caused by breast cancer will increase by two and a half times over the next ten years due to the absence of screening tests, as would have been if these screening tests had been carried out. I am not talking about the 20 percent increase in divorce rates in the period of closure compared to what was characteristic of the Hungarian population a year ago. And I am quite sure, ladies and gentlemen, that those schoolchildren who have been forced to spend the last year under such conditions will be called the Covid generation, and the proportion of mental illness among them will be much higher than in other generations. [[14.40]] A ten - year - old child now spent one tenth of his life with closure. He couldn't have experienced the experiences a ten-year-old would normally have to experience. He couldn't have been in the community, he couldn't have attended events, he couldn't have attended special classes that could have otherwise been done because of the absence of the coronal virus or the rationalization of the closures. These are all the consequences of the epidemic in years of life and in quality of life. So when we talk about death, and we talk about our fellow countrymen who died in a coronal virus or a coronal virus, let's say we lose people, years of life not only because of the coronal virus, but also the closure will cause extremely serious social consequences, which are also measurable losses to our country over the years. I would ask the pro-government representatives to reconsider this proposal, and at least to amend it on its deadline, because the communication you yourself have confessed goes perfectly against what is described in this proposal. The Hungarian Movement as the only anti-closure and anti-vaccination party will not support this proposal in the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-29-94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the opportunity to speak now.
u2021-04-29-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There have been a number of issues which are not closely related to this proposal, but which have been made an objection. That's the story of college fortunes. Well, these assets have always been due to universities, and they will continue to belong to universities, and they will serve the functioning of universities. Then there was an excuse for the Mátra Power Plant. More than 10,000 jobs depend on the Mátra Power Plant in this country. So any investment, development that serves to preserve these jobs is, in our view, a good purpose. It's a reminder of investments. If you think about it, there was a crisis management period before 2010 when investments ceased and we were practically in the deepest areas of the crisis, because all the investments are creating jobs, creating public revenues, raising salaries, precisely by creating new jobs. So any development that serves to increase national wealth in this country, create jobs, generate public revenues is all for the purpose of improving the economy and better for our population. It also said why we're opening, why we're closing. The opposition could also discuss this among themselves, because you have the extremist opinions, not with us. I can say that we follow the golden middle ground. We also asked for people's views on this, because there was a national consultation where the vast majority said about the process of facilitations and their restraint. I think that if we follow government measures, then we can see what society is and what they want. As regards the state of health of Hungarian society, we can, of course, agree on that. But if we look at what the government has done to improve the health of the population since 2010 with tobacco taxation, the national public health programme, the tax on unhealthy food, I believe that this is not an immediate and epidemic-related measure, but a series of events lasting more than ten years. And we have shown the same standards in public catering so that future generations will no longer be able to cope with the difficulties that we inherited from the previous period. There have been multiple reports of mortality. I would like to mention the name of Tibor Nagy because, for the first time on ATV, he mentioned that the opposition had to fly on this subject, because so many people died here that they could expect a voting base of up to 200,000. I see that you are very well on your way to taking these advices. I am very sorry that this is being made a political issue. Indeed, every dead man is an irreplaceable loss. I think that grace and grief are the words that we can say about this, and we should not make this a matter of political debate. I would like to comment on this later, so I would like to return the opportunity to Mr President for another word.
u2021-04-29-96	Thank you. The representative of the KDNP, István Hollik, is next as a representative asking for a normal word. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Listening to the debate, I regret to say that, although Fidesz and KDNP have since the beginning, since this bloody virus broke into the world, and so on to Hungary, it says that in this situation, the political debates and interests of the party, please everyone, let us put aside any party, and join together in this difficult situation, but we can see that the left is unfortunately unwilling to do so. This debate is also an example of this. Here again, 80 percent of the time, and I think I was still being fair to you about accusations, accusations that had nothing to do with the extraordinary legal order in the world. These are accusations about, for example, the accusations about democracy that you have been making for years. LMP has been in Paks II for years. He's talking about it. There's nothing new about that. But that's okay, 'cause they might have a point. By the way, discuss it with your allies, because they seem to be supporting the Paks investment. But I'm asking you, Mr. Group Leader, what does this have to do with extending the emergency situation? This is an ongoing investment, supported by the majority of Hungarians and supported by local residents. This investment is going on, but it has nothing to do with this debate. What I see here is a political accusation. You are not talking about an emergency, but even in this situation, that is all you are dealing with. Did you make it a criticism that my fellow Member was talking about the left? [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: That's not what I'm talking about.]] Please go back and listen to him. He did nothing but accuse himself of a hundred percent of his speech. A hundred percent! He also brought here things that had nothing to do with the emergency. It's political accusations and nothing else you do. The truth is, as sorry as we are for the fact that we haven't been able to work together even in this difficult situation, we're used to it. We saw when the extraordinary legal order had to be announced for the first time that the president of the left-wing Jobbik was talking about a kingdom, and that the elections of 22 would not be held, which is why we want the extraordinary mandate. So there were all kinds of brownish and surreal accusations from Jobbik, which, of course, lacked reality in all respects. And unfortunately, we can see that they continue to do exactly the same thing now. Unfortunately, the first extension of the legal order could be considered a left-wing derailment when the aid was granted. But then at least they could be consistent with themselves, and once they say no, at least say no. But once they say yes and now they say no again? It shows that they're political. It's nothing but politics, how they can attack the government better. To their criticism of democracy, which Mr Arató said, I can say that we are here in Parliament, Parliament is functioning, despite the fact that in the first wave of the epidemic you have tried to tell the world that the Hungarian Parliament is not working. So here we are, arguing on this issue. I say this even if you are not talking about this legislation, but are repeating your usual political mantras. Ladies and gentlemen, The most shocking thing is that you pretend not to acknowledge or see what's going on in the world and what's going on in Europe. There's an extraordinary situation everywhere. Do you understand that? There are restrictive measures everywhere. Do you understand that? Restrictive measures can only be taken with extraordinary authorisation. The government is extremely empowered everywhere in Europe. Everywhere! [[14.50]] Moreover, these will be extended in most European countries, and you will pretend that this is a Hungarian curiosity, and it would be entirely legitimate to attack it. No, it's not! It is not, fellow Members. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] We're fighting the virus. There are many uncertainties. More and more mutants appear. Look at what's going on in India. There's only one thing we know, one thing, at least we hope for, because science doesn't even know for sure that vaccination is effective against mutants that have come before, all of them. But I'll return to vaccinations for a little while longer. The measures taken here have been discussed with regard to the economy. I understand that the opposition, the left, is trying to prove that what is happening in Hungary is wrong and even the worst in Europe. It's just that you're suffering from the political illness of trying to ignore reality. Because if you look at the numbers of economic reality, they're contradicting what you're saying. Let's look at GDP, for example. In Europe, most European countries including large, rich countries, GDP has fallen significantly more than in Hungary. [[Dr. László Kács: From where?]] Moreover, the European average was higher [[Dr. Pál Völner: Eurostat!]] as in Hungary. This means that the Hungarian economy was resilient, as opposed to the state in which you navigated it in 2009; it was resistant. Unemployment in Europe has increased significantly more than in Hungary, and if we look at it now, we can see that over a month, my fellow Members, 66 thousand new jobs have been created. It also shows that the more we can convince people to take the vaccine you are working against, the sooner we can restart the country, and the sooner the Hungarian economy can get back on track, these figures show this. I'd like to say to the head of the LMP faction that you've been working with [[Dr. László Keresztes laughs at Lóránt.]] who, by the way... I know you're laughing at this because in agony, there's nothing else you can do. But when they were dealing with a crisis, let's see what happened when I mentioned GDP data here. In 2009, Hungary was forced to suffer a significantly greater decline in GDP due to poor left-wing policy than the European Union. It's a lot bigger. Now... [[Zoltán Varga: What is the exchange rate of the forint?]] I'm telling you, in a month, 66,000 jobs were created, and thanks to left-wing crisis management, 200,000 people lost their jobs. That was left-wing crisis management. And then I do not even bring up the restrictive, restrictive measures that have hit Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian pensioners and Hungarian health workers, because they have taken away their 13th month's wages, the 13th month's pension from pensioners, the family tax reduction has been completely abolished, the taxes have been increased, and they have also been able to introduce a superbrutto. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Payable health care.]] Pay-per-view health care. You conspired with them, it's their crisis management! [[Dr. László György Lukács: What paid health care?]] So when you're talking about the failure of crisis management, Mr. Congressman, you need to look behind your back, please. [[Dr. László György Lukács: 19 500 HUF for the PCR test! Let's talk about that.]] There are a lot of uncertainties in this situation, since everyone is learning how to effectively defend themselves against the epidemic. One thing, as I said before, seems certain, is this vaccine. The vaccine, the vaccine, it saves lives. However, it was painful to notice that only one left-wing Member could not stress it and could not in this debate, which is closely linked to the emergency, that you also encourage everyone to take the vaccine they offer, be it any, because they were examined and considered effective by Hungarian experts. So you guys always ask that you don't attack health professionals. [[Dr. László György Lukács: If there was an M1, then!]] Of course they're attacking him. Congressman, press the button, I've listened to it before, and I'm going to listen to it again. So you're saying you don't attack health professionals. Then what do you think it is, yet what, when you ignore the official position of professionals who believe that both Russian and Chinese vaccines are effective? [[Dr. László György Lukács: Which vaccine?]] They have simply been unable to express the simple sentence to their own voters for months, because they are the ones who listen to you, and in this respect you have a prominent responsibility, and they have not been able to tell their voters that they are respected voters, our esteemed supporters, if they offer you the vaccine, be it about any of them, take it on. They can't say that! On the other hand, Klára Dobrev goes into the ATV and lies that no one is saying that Eastern vaccines help. No one's saying they're gonna help us. When there's an official statement about it! [[Zoltán Varga: What authority?]] He's lying! Now, as you're doing, that's exactly what you're doing. So that's the debauchery. [[Dr. László György Lukács: According to the European Union?]] Then László Varju goes to the ATV yesterday [[Zoltán Varga: Péter Szijjártó...]] And he tells me that vaccination with Eastern vaccines is a fake solution. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That's the debauchery we need to finish. If, by the way, you're really interested in what you're saying here, and you want this emergency, this extraordinary legal order to end as soon as possible, then you should finally stop your anti-vaccination propaganda, this incontestation. Let us strive, all of us, to ensure that as many Hungarians as possible take the vaccine now, thank God, thanks to the Hungarian government, there is enough vaccines in Hungary, and otherwise the emergency will be resolved sooner. But that's not what you're doing, but you're constantly doing the debauchery, and unfortunately you're there, you've seen it, the poll of Policy Solutions, it's clear that the voters who trust you are rejecting Eastern vaccines. Now, this is the result of your anti-vaccination, inconclusive campaign. It is completely immoral and irresponsible that they are endangering the very lives of those who trust you. So they're endangering the lives of their own voters by telling them not to take on the Eastern vaccines. That's what we should be talking about. It's related to the emergency you've been talking about here, but it has nothing to do with it, it was a political accusation. I am very sorry that you have decided to do so rather than join forces, because it is not difficult to read from your words that you will not support this bill before us, but there is still time to change your mind. Hope is the last thing I hope for you to change your mind, and at last in the vote, you will be on the other hand, so that the government can effectively defend itself against the epidemic, and this bill will be voted in favour. If you do not do so, unfortunately, it also proves that, even in this difficult situation, it is not important for you to protect the Hungarian people, but only to seek political gain and political interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-98	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr László Szakács, MSZP. Here.
u2021-04-29-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last two minutes, I've been able to come up with a lot of things, and I'm going to do a lot of things right now. However, I am pleased that the Secretary of State is taking part in the debate. I'm serious about this, so it's absolutely unorthodox for the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner shakes his head.]] They don't usually just react in the closet, so at least that's when we have the opportunity to conflict opinions. The Secretary of State said that ten thousand jobs were protected at the Mátra Power Plant, more than that. That's right. That's not the question. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Over 10,000.]] The question is that you couldn't have told Lőrinc Mészáros that we couldn't afford it this year, because now it's for other people, now it's for families. [[15.00]] Now we have to give the families, the people, the money, and then wait, please, you'll get it the next time you get the chance. Can Lawrence the Butcher take it? He can take it! Can families take it? They can't stand it! We are talking about the Lőrinc Mészáros, who received 18 billion forints from the same budget of the same budget, of which he received 18 billion forints last year, even if he dismissed 800 people from his hotel chains, 800 families making his life hell when the plague was most raging. And, of course, thanks to you, because you didn't accept our proposal, those families should have found work because the 90 days passed when you announced that the second wave had arrived, and that we would soon have another closure. This is still the same Lőrinc Mészáros whom you gave 18 billion forints in addition, who, by the way, took 11 billion forints from one of your companies a week or two earlier. In other words, Lőrinc Mészáros doesn't have to worry about it, but we don't have to worry about it either, especially you, because we're not worried about it, you shouldn't worry about it, if you now have money for the Mátra Power Plant, in which there was a purchase price, a member loan on how you want to pay a member loan from a loss-making company, that's another question, an accounting issue, so there was a member loan, it's also been paid. You didn't have the temperament to say that Lawrence, not now, don't ask for money, now don't let people go, and please wait your turn, and then when we helped the Hungarian families who lost most of their jobs or income, we can help you after that, since you just brought 11 billion forints from your company. Secretary of State, isn't that why you're creating it, what do you call this national capitalist department? We call them oligarchs. But isn't that why they're created, so when the government's in trouble, who's to turn to for help? But you can see that Lawrence the Butcher is in trouble, and so is the country, but Lawrence the Butcher is still getting help. The Hungarian SME doesn't get any help! To the Hungarian SME, do you know what you have offered, Mr. Secretary of State? 10 million forints of credit! Well, when will Lőrinc Mészáros repay these to the Hungarian state? 'Cause he's getting a non-refundable grant. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Others received too!]] He says the investment will increase the nation's wealth. So far we have only spent on the Budapest-Belgrád railway. So far, we've only spent, and the worst part is that you took that 82 billion forints from the defense fund here. They took 82 billion forints from the people's table, and then in the fall and spring the same government did not pay that much money, 82 billion forints for wage compensation. Europe, if we are not talking about the world's narrowest government. You offered 50 percent wage compensation, it was much bigger everywhere in the world, it was 80 percent. I need you to figure one more thing out for me. If someone can't open and can't earn, how would they add the other 50 percent? And all we're talking about here is a few sectors. You didn't ask a few sectors not to work. You say that those who do not work have no income. This is your creed. Now, you asked for the hosts, you asked for the hotels, they didn't ask for the hotels, but they ordered the hosts, the hotels, the participants in the recreational industry, you ordered them to shut down, they took their revenue. And after that, you didn't make up for the proceeds, you reduced your costs generously. Well, it's not hard to see that if someone doesn't have an income, then no matter how much they reduce their expenses, they won't be able to pay for it. If this is what they ask for, and if we are to feed the Ripper of the Ripper even more, even if thousands and tens of thousands of families are being destroyed, then I must make my fellow Member Hollik bitter, they have not been convincing enough. They would have convinced Lőrinc Mészáros to wait another year, then he would have received the 18-20 billion forints for either the Mátra Power Plant or the renovation of any of his other hotels. Lawrence, pay for this, wait a year. He would have been convinced, so don't convince me. They say there's no democracy deficit. My fellow crusader spoke of the town of Komlo. I'm in a position to come from there. There's a fidesz mayor and a non-fidesz majority. Mr Secretary of State, it is very good that you are here from the Ministry of Justice, and you will be kind enough to tell me some things about how you will appreciate it when the mayor has to act in accordance with the epidemiological measures and proportionately when the mayor acts on his own behalf instead of the body of representatives, even though in our town of Komló this is done by asking for the opinion of the majority, and then making the opposite decision. I'll be happy to make a decision for you, but feel free to download it from the Internet, where the mayor has decided to support the minority Fidesz faction. You ignore the opinion of the majority. He's going to appoint an institution manager. It will issue and award applications, conclude contracts and tender procedures and award contracts. Is that okay? Is it illegal? Of course it's irregular. At least you tell him that the trees won't reach the sky, that this situation won't last forever, that he won't be able to put all of his friends on the table, and that he won't be able to fix all his mistakes, and then ask for another community elected by the same voters to approve them, while the will of the same voters will be completely ignored by this mayor. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] because it does not take into account the decision of the majority of representatives. You're breaking the rules? Of course he's breaking it. You know that, and I know that, but even locally, he's warned by the right organs, practically beyond that. I think that if you see this, and believe me, I see it at close range, you shouldn't teach us democracy, not at all. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2006! Dr. Pál Völner: October 23.]] Then they say that GDP has been reduced, I have just heard from my fellow Member Hollik, but it doesn't matter where, my honourable fellow Member. I hope you're not trying to convince us that the declining West is in such a bad situation now. Believe me, a lot of Hungarian families and many Hungarian counties want to keep me there, like one or two Western provinces, where GDP has fallen so hard. By the way, Hungarian farmers would like to walk like Austrian farmers, Hungarian companies would like to do as, let's say, Austrian, German and French companies do, you know, where they provide normative support after lost income. They'll see how much their income was reported this month in the last year of peace, 2019, and they'll give 80 percent of it. Unemployment: abroad, they say it's bigger. Could it be registered there? Here, with us 30 They're out of the system here after three months. [[Nacsa Lawrence will spread his arms.]] Spread your hands, dear fellow Member Nacsa, by the way, you're doing the same thing as your government, they're laying their hands on you, too, well, for those of you who couldn't get a job this time, the whole thing just went that way, yeah, you said everything about it. They said we'd create as many jobs as Covid consumes. It didn't work. After that, they said that anyone who can't find a job anywhere can be a soldier. That's when they saw that it wasn't attractive, and I think the last thing I heard from Secretary Bodo was that he could be a public worker. That's quite a vision. To do this, I really don't think we need the alliance with us, and that's enough of you to tell me so much. So, I'm asking you to be a little bit self-critical about this, that when, of course, I understand that the communication strategy, that there's a lot to talk about how much the government is doing to deal with the epidemic, sometimes the facts are interfering with what they're doing here. [[15.10]] In other words, if I have any advice, I'd like to hear from the Butcher Lawrence. He may not earn 200 billion forints again this year, he may not be the richest Hungarian who ever lived next year, and he will be when he has enough money for this country. In fact, it would be best if it weren't. I think that you cannot ask for a partnership in these matters, to stuff your oligarchs; to help the mayors make arbitrary decisions, to spoil what they want, and then to have local or hop taxpayers pay for these mistakes. We're talking hundreds of millions of dollars! You'll see, Secretary of State, you'll soon have the presentation of how much the hop deficit has increased in a quarter because of two failed investments. You'll have to take a look. You're gonna have to decide after, because he's gonna come here for money. I think that in these matters, of course, we could have taken into account what we proposed. You guys went on your own terms, and you asked your mayors, and now they're talking about everything but that. I think that this is not fair, that these things should be taken into account in the same way, and that proper self-criticism should be exercised. Thank you for your attention. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-04-29-100	Thank you very much. The group leader of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, is next.
u2021-04-29-101	Thank you, Mr. President. It is appropriate to answer the questions. Dear Congressman Hollik, We have heard a lot of lies from the pro-government benches today, but at the same time the truly special occasion when the representative of the KDNP, who is not, by the way, the communications director of Fidesz, makes practically a confession. That's what you did. He said that there were a lot of things here before the Parliament that had nothing to do with the crisis, nothing to do with crisis management. That is correct, honourable Member, so thank you very much for your testimony. Amendment to the electoral law: You announced a year earlier that you did not wish to amend the electoral law, but you did, in a mean, harsh way, rewrite the electoral law. As you have just admitted, Congressman, this had nothing to do with the crisis, it had nothing to do with crisis management. Similarly, the outsourcing of universities: the outsourcing of universities, the outsourcing and political direction of almost all state higher education, was this important for you in an extremely serious epidemiological situation? During the crisis, did universities and public wealth have to be outsourced? Castles here, other assets, and much of the public property there? Encrypting the Budapest-Belgrád railway project? What did he have to do with crisis management? Of course, you can swing your heads, my honourable fellow Member, but you have encrypted all the information, all the documents, all the contracts that could have been used to justify to the Hungarian taxpayers the huge amount of money in two years, why not 200 billion forints in support of the difficult situation of Hungarian people, why Lőrinc Mészáros's companies were invested in large revenues. But likewise, now that project, the construction of the Budapest campus of Fudan University, has started, what does this have to do with disease management, what does it have to do with the crisis? You want to pay hundreds of billions of forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money to build a campus for the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest. On what grounds are you doing this, Mr. Secretary, what does this disease management have to do with? But, Mr. Secretary of State, you're trying to explain the certificate that you've outsourced the state universities, but the wealth remains at the universities. It's just that the universities were set up by themselves. So they took state universities and put them in trust funds. Your bill states literally that these state universities, which have so far been part of public wealth, continue to function as private universities. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Foundation!]] Are you shaking your head, Congressman Nacha? Are you saying I'm not telling the truth? [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's what I'm saying!]] Are you saying that there's no word for them to continue as private universities? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] Have you not read the bill, Your Honour? Now it turns out that you have no idea what you voted for in the National Assembly? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Come on!]] They now function as private universities. In addition, they've based this whole shameful, model-changing outsourcing on a huge lie. We have been listening for weeks and months, and the Prime Minister has announced how much money from the EU's reconstruction fund, development funds, will get to universities. They said that higher education will be a great winner of EU funds, and that Hungarian universities will have to develop at historical level. They said that HUF 1500 billion will come from EU development funds to higher education. Today, Congressman Hollik announced, by the way, that it was not true. You have decided, obviously, only to take part in the non-refundable part and not to make it to university development resources. So, basically for weeks and months, they lied about the need for this model change, of course, it was a lie in itself, so that universities could use development resources from the EU more effectively. Compared to this, they took this outrageous measure, outsourced state universities, cheated the Senates, promised to guarantee university autonomy, and did not do so. Your boss, Judi Varga, is also a member of the board of trustees at the University of Miskolc and appoint ministers, ministers of state and ministers. Despite the fact that you in the opposition, when you have described such things as a programme, you have literally formulated that unpoliticised Curatoriums are needed, it would be difficult to list how many State Secretarys, Members, Ministers, Municipal Functionists, Fidesz politicians or former Fidesz politicians have been appointed to the Curatorium of Foundations that maintain universities, so that they cannot be recalled, and they can take all decisions. Compared to this, it turns out that everything was fooled by the senators and the members of the university Senate who voted for this outrageous change of model because of their minor misdirection. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what this is about!]] I am just responding to Mr Secretary of State, honourable Member, because today, after the shameful, billion-dollar public asset outsourcing, it was announced that, yeah, they lied, lied for weeks to months, they didn't get the EU's development resources to the university, and they would be replaced by other sources. So, Minister Gulyás sends such a vague promise into the world to be replaced by another source. The question of the Paks has yet to come up. I am sure that Congressman Hollik did not understand when I spoke about what you have done here in the past, that you have forgotten to deal with very important matters at the same time. By the way, Paks' case has been here three or four times in the last year in connection with various measures that you have changed the legal environment to speed up the investment. And what happened today? It was announced that, when new nuclear power plant blocks are being authorised, hundreds of thousands of pages of Russian design documents have to be checked, so these are extremely important things, and the Director General of the Authority for Authorisation has resigned. What's going on here? ! What is going on in this country, fellow Members? That's pretty amazing. You obviously started this Paks project based on lies, always talking about how only the Russians could do that. In all respects, you have changed the legislative environment to speed up the project at any time, even in the epidemic situation. Compared to this, they have now recognised the quite amazing slippage by reschedule the loan. And you're resigning the Director General of the licensing authority? But I could give you a long list of the huge system problems that you seem to be unable to deal with because of your inadequacy. Mr. Chef, you said that the shameful measures are taking place in Komló. Indeed, it can be seen that the electorate has elected a majority in Komló, but I do not know the same thing, the mayor of hops and Szekszárd must work together, jointly suggesting what else could be done in this situation, but in contrast to the decision of the majority of the electorate, these decisions will be taken by both Polics and Mayor Ács. This is an outrage! Why are you guys idly watching this? Why do you stand by and watch the democratically elected body take a decision that is contrary to its decisions, and abuse the extraordinary authority of a Fidesz mayor? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: elected mayor!]] I'm sorry, but the board has also been elected. Are you saying that you have the right to abuse the will of the electorate, to go against it? This is an outrage! I think, ladies and gentlemen, that if you think about this situation, there is something to be done about it. You acknowledged that there were abuses during the first wave. And that's not what this extraordinary mandate is about, so that the mayor can do whatever it takes to do whatever it takes to do what the board decides to do. Well, hold on a second. The terraces are now open, the opening is continuous, but a council of representatives can't meet? This is an outrage! The Parliament can meet, but the representatives of the local government can't meet? The elected representatives of the local government, Honourable Congressman Nacsa, cannot exercise their powers, do not fulfil their duties, which have been entrusted to them by the local electorate? It's a disregard for democracy! And by the way, this situation is typically abused by your fidesz mayors, so you have the responsibility of the legislator and you have the political responsibility to eliminate this shameful situation. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-102	Two-minute speeches are coming; first, Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK. [[15.20]]
u2021-04-29-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am truly sorry that Congressman Hollik is not here. He is a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, as is Lawrence Nacsa. I know for a fact that you're not Democrats. The fact that you are a Christian must be decided on your own. [[Dr. Pál Völner will spread his arms.]] But I'd like to say quietly that if you do, there's gonna be a big, big problem, because they're gonna end up in hell, lying to a Christian. And even though many people, many times, in many places and for billions of forints, lie does not become the truth. You're accusing us of all kinds of things. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Anti-infectious...]] During this period, during the past one year of the epidemic, they have been you, like the masks I have just told you, and I have tried to confront you with this, but their latest activity is the lying and manipulated vaccine death statistics, which have been used otherwise to divert desperate Hungarian people who are waiting for vaccination to use your Chinese vaccine, even though there are hundreds of thousands of millions of Western tested vaccines that could be given. But no, that's not what they did! And that's what they say, despite the fact that an army of professionals says that, on the one hand, you probably stole or got it from their Russian comrades, and on the other hand, it has nothing to do with reality. This isn't going to end well. I have written down two things that Congressman Hollik has said, and this is very true of you: they pretend not to see what is going on in Europe and what is going on in the world. You're suffering from a political illness in which you're trying to ignore reality, and it's going to be your loss, and you're going to fail because you can't do that for a long time. You can forge the statistics for a while, but that's gonna come up. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And he's gonna kick you where you belong, to the trash heap of history. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-104	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, two minutes!
u2021-04-29-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Crusade has been doing this for two days now to put sentences in my mouth, what I said and what law I didn't read, and how I feel about this and that. You'd better hear what I think, rather than say that you put things in my mouth that were never said from me, and you're never going to hear from me anyway. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] I said these assets are for the universities. You talk about all kinds of private pockets, while this university's wealth goes to the university, gives the university greater autonomy and greater autonomy. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] And more importantly, that's what the universities asked for. This is the important story on this issue, but I do not want to take the debate in this direction, because you talked about universities for seven minutes without this law having anything to do with universities. I think that we have had quite a lot of discussions over the last three months on the issue of universities and the issue of Hungarian higher education here in Parliament and also last year. However much debate is worth the issue of higher education in Hungary, but this is not the item on the agenda, honourable Member. To question that no one should be able to abuse anything by the way... I completely agree with you on that, but to say that the mayor is not a democratically elected leader of a body, is it just the body of representatives? ! [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] Well, he's the same elected democratically elected head of the board, the mayor of the settlement, as the body of representatives, by the way. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] I agree with you deeply so that no one can abuse anything. We are now at the 10th to 12th opposition speech, and once they could not say that they encouraged Hungarians to take all of the vaccinations that save lives. Once they could not say that any vaccine was safe and effective because it was examined by professionals. And once they couldn't say that your own sympathizers were encouraged to offer them any shots, that's good, and get yourself vaccinated. Here we are discussing the health epidemic, the emergency, and during fifteen speeches, they could not say that vaccination saves lives and that people should be vaccinated. This is a disgrace, my honourable fellow Member. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-29-106	Congressman László Cook, MSZP, in two minutes!
u2021-04-29-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If this is a hyate to my fellow Member, I can tell you that I think there's nothing else you can quote from me, not from me, I'm quite sure you can't quote anything else from me. I'm not as brave as the congressman, I'd rather say that everyone consults with their doctor, and what his doctor suggests to him because it's right that the doctor convinces them, and not some politician that the doctor recommends him, pick up the vaccine, and I can't remember something I didn't say. I know that you need to make a policy out of this, but I think that this is the most important thing for the doctor to convince voters and those who want to stand up about which vaccine to accept. Not least, I think that every time we get to the public, we've asked everyone to accept the vaccine. I didn't get the right answer, besides the fact that, of course, the mayor was elected by the voters, that's obviously true, but is it still allowed to commit irregularities? Are you allowed to ignore the function of the council? Should the situation be abused disproportionately? Is it free to spend billions, destroy existentials, fire people, replace them, ask for the opinion of the majority, and then decide against the opinion of the majority? Can I do that? That's what's happening here, Minister. Minister, I now promise you that you will receive a beautiful list of all these pieces, and I ask you to write down your opinion on this, what you think these measures are proportionate to the city of Komló. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and whether they are related to the epidemiological measures. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-108	Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, in two minutes!
u2021-04-29-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You should be ashamed of yourself, Congressman Nacha. Whenever I have been asked at any time by someone, or on my official communication interface, I have always stated that vaccination is extremely important, everyone should register and that all vaccines are better than disease. That is what I have always said, honourable Member. The fact that you accuse me of lying or of making such an outrageous statement in my mouth is a disgrace to you. I have always consistently said that every vaccine is better than the disease, so everyone should put it out, because this can avoid the serious course of the disease. I have always been more consistent, but if you want to make such an outrageous accusation, honourable Member, at least look into it first. As far as academic autonomy is concerned, many of the members of the university senates, such as the Rector of the University of Pécs, have said that they are willing to go into the process of so-called model change with such marginal conditions that if the university senates are given the opportunity to put together the structure of the curatorium; if the appointment of the curator is not forever; if there is an opportunity to recall. These conditions, Mr Secretary of State, Honourable Congressman Nacsa, have not been granted or enacted by law. So in particular, it was not university autonomy that was enshrined in the law, but the autonomy of the board of trustees of universities, and you have committed a lie, and you went against their previous programme, which was written before the European Parliament elections in 2009. On the contrary, these universities have been filled with Fidesz party politicians, members of government, ministers, state ministers, and, moreover, they have lied about this way that universities will benefit from these huge amounts of EU development funds. Today, Minister Gulyás has announced that this will not happen, and that the European Union's development resources will not get or will barely get to universities. You lied. Therefore, today I asked the President of the Republic in a statement not to sign these outrageous laws which [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They ignore academic autonomy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-29-110	Thank you very much. On the basis of the Secretary of State's discretion and willingness to compromise, I am sharing the following information with you, Mr Secretary of State, which you cannot see, that Congressman Attila Mesterházy is currently the only one who still wants to speak. In that case, I ask for your agreement, because it is by house rules that I should give the floor to you, but if we agree on that, since you have a way of saying your opinion in the closing line, let's do this and agree. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Good.]] Mr Attila Mesterházy is next, and then, as rapporteur, the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have two good news for Congressman Nacha right away. I'd like to take a quick look at two of your requests. One is that we would like to report that the vaccine saves lives and that everyone should be vaccinated. [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] One of them was checked then. And the other thing is, I don't want to put anything in your mouth. [[Nacsa Larinc nods his hand on his chest.]] That's the other thing I'd like to make clear to you. Then I have less good news. Unfortunately, he spoke about it because, unfortunately, Mr Hollik had left, and so he could not hear it; this debate was probably not as important to him as he said in his speech, because these twenty minutes, which were not yet there until the end of the debate, could not wait for him. [[15.30]] But in any case, he said that people should be persuaded to take the vaccine, that he thinks the opposition is working against him, that the opposition is surprisingly political with this question, so he is making politics out of this issue. He also pointed out that vaccination saves lives, and that in fact, disprovement is not good for such a vaccination, since it saves lives. Now, let me read you a sentence from an earlier period. This is how I do not know what is wrong with this sentence, as it is being accused of saying such sentences at the moment - "The people are still in uncertainty, keeping very important information from the public about the quantity and quality of the vaccine in Hungary, there are all kinds of rumors and questions and doubts. In a situation like this, it's unacceptable. Imagine, this was not said by any member of the current opposition, but by Péter Szijjártó in 2009 in the case of another flu epidemic. And then your prime minister said, "It wouldn't be right if we found out that we were being robbed on the pretext of vaccination." However, this is a financial and not a health issue. And those who are still unsure can also benefit from what the party president said afterwards, as he said in connection with the vaccination guidelines that they should all decide for themselves what they wish to do! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. So you didn't say what I just told you to do here, and I'm asking you, because the vaccination saves lives, but in 2009, Viktor Orbán said that everyone should decide what they want to do. Then Orbán also said: "The times have passed when a party decision on vaccination was needed. Everyone decide for themselves what you intend to do. It wasn't the opposition, you said it yourself, your prime minister said it. Then Tibor Navracsics, Head of Group, said that Mr. State Secretary, Péter Szijjártó spokesperson, said that Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, Vice-President of Parliament and Gabriella Selmeczi, health-politicist, declared that he would not inoculate himself. Because vaccination saves lives, Mr. Secretary. Because the opposition wants to discredit the vaccination process, right, during the 2009 flu? ! And then they said it wasn't a political matter, it was a private matter that someone got vaccinated. This was said by Peter Szijjártó, then spokesperson of Fidesz. Then Imre Pesti, the specialist politician at Fidesz's press conference, said that the flu vaccine against a new type of influenza virus is expensive! Because the state's gonna make a deal out of this, it's gonna take advantage of the plague. The vaccine was a victim of a bad taste of business. Mr Fidesz said about the flu outbreak in relation to influenza vaccination. Then Imre Pesti also says: "The lie and the loser is now a directive. What could be messed up about the new type of flu was messed up by the government. It is the government's responsibility to have mistrust of the vaccine. Well, how's that? ! That when there is another government, you can say that I do not doubt that this was your conviction at the time, but now, when you are on the government, and perhaps some opposition representative has a similar feeling, he cannot say that! Because then he's anti-vaccination, and then he's a killer, and this story costs people lives. When you say it, it doesn't cost people lives, it's fine! Now, when someone's suggesting that you guys are still stealing with the ventilators, how can you say that in the middle of a virus treatment, in the middle of a fight against a virus epidemic? ! Well, you said the same thing then! It was also a flu vaccine, and that virus could have killed people in the same way. The only difference is his name wasn't Covid, it was H1N1. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that your sitting point determines the position, and that's a problem, because there's no consistency in what you're saying, and especially what you're throwing at us. Funnyly, my fellow chef noted when Mr Nacsa spoke about what they put in his mouth and what they didn't, that you were actually building a policy on it. I don't know if they noticed. All you do is keep putting something in our mouth, something that wasn't in it. It's just that you like it, and with all the big media you've got, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got [[Continue in 194/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary And it doesn't interest you or your fellow Member to know that neither I nor Congressman Cook nor Lóránt Keres has said a sentence, not a word you're trying to pin on us here. I understand, but it's called party politics, it's called political gain, my honourable fellow Member, that you have written down a political communication panel and a slogan that has to be said in any way. I understand that. I'm sure it's not the first time you've told me, I've had the opportunity to hear all this nonsense from you in Parliament, so I could say it back, and I don't need it on written, printed paper, and I don't need a lot of brains to do it, so even I can do it. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's just stick to being a little more careful. When you're talking about how much you've all wanted to work together, just this nasty opposition, it doesn't want to work with you, so, tell me a proposal that you've accepted in relation to the epidemic treatment that the opposition has done. Just one chance, just to have a name for the child, so that it can be said that the opposition actually meant well, because they are also not happy that many people die in Hungary, they also had a funny suggestion, not a good one, but not a big stupid suggestion, and you know what, let's accept it! Just to show that we so want to cooperate with you, see that it makes sense to make a good suggestion, because the government has accepted it! Do you know how much they took? Zero! Nothing was accepted in the world, no matter which faction made this proposal. The other is that you're saying that we're talking about death, why are we making politics out of this? ! I'm sorry, who made this politics? ! Orbán began by saying that when something was said to him here in Parliament that something was not good about crisis management and that it had a bad result, he pulled himself out and said that he was measuring the effectiveness of disease management in the number of deaths. It wasn't the opposition representatives who said that. He was standing ten meters away from me, I heard him, and he said that more than once, several times. Then why are you surprised that opposition representatives say that if you, Prime Minister, have made this a measure of the effectiveness of disease management, which is rational, because it is indeed a measure of your effectiveness, tragic, but a measure of effectiveness, the success of disease management, then why are you asking us to assess your activities or the activities of the Prime Minister on this basis, along with the criteria set up by you? ! Well, he defined this parameter, this criterion. The other is why we do not support such an extraordinary legal order, that once we did not support it, once we supported it, and now we do not support it again. Indeed, I will not betray a big bag cat, nor will the MSZP fraction support this proposal. This, Mr Secretary of State, Member, is for a very simple reason that you are abusing this regulation, you are using it for the wrong reasons, and that is why the opposition is saying that there was good intentions at this time, just to clarify for the record: the first has not been supported, the first such request here in Parliament, because it was for an indefinite period of time. Then let the opposition speak on behalf of the MSZP faction. he asked to have a definite date to 90 days, 30 days, 60 days, 180 days. I think the specific request was to have 90 days of this deadline. You said you didn't, you're going to have to do it indefinitely. Then we said it was good, we get it, but we disagree, we didn't support it. The next time they wrote these 90 days into the same law, then the MSZP fraction and the others said that it was good, then let us give the government such a political gesture that the deadline was in place, we demanded it, it was realized, it is all right, let us accept that such an extraordinary legal order can help effective crisis management in Hungary as well. [[15.40]] But then they started doing things that had nothing to do with crisis management, which is unacceptable to us not only because of the disease management, but also about a lot of other issues. Therefore, naturally, now, when they ask for a third such authorisation, there is nothing more to say about our own values than to say no once again, because we have experienced what you are doing with this mandate. My fellow cook spoke a lot about national solidarity, and I think he did the right thing. We also do not see that, by the way, the kind of wealth that you are always talking about in creating the national capital class makes sense, because apparently, the national capital class is not in solidarity with the nation. This is a very big problem! In this, László Szakács said a larger issue about how Lőrinc Mészáros or the Prime Minister's son-in-law receives uncounted support, non-refundable support so that his business, his interest, would not be damaged. But let me give you a small example, Mr. Secretary of State: the Prime Minister, in an interesting and correct way, said in one of his radio interviews, that he would also ask the rich to stop going to Dubai, the Maldives and Zanzibar, if there is one way to do so, because they can introduce a virus from there to Hungary and indeed create another wave in Hungary. I think it's a fair saying. The Prime Minister was right in this regard to directing this kind of advice or awareness to the rich Hungarians, so that they could survive a year without Maldív and Dubai just because there are poorer Hungarians who do not get there, but can get this cool virus from themselves. Who hasn't followed this Prime Minister's warning or warning? Well, Ripper Lawrence. Interestingly, Lőrinc Mészáros felt that he didn't care what his friend Viktor Orbán said, and he went to Dubai on a private plane because he thought that it would probably have been a domestic dispute if he hadn't been able to go to Dubai right now. So this shows that you do not talk about any national solidarity, because it is quite clear that you are only interested in solidarity if you benefit from it if you can bring the money home. You're not a family-friendly government, you're a family-friendly government, because you're doing this because you're only giving real support and help to your own friends and oligarchs. So for these reasons, we cannot be sure to support your initiative, and in this respect, I think the opposition is doing the right thing if it does not give you the power to do so, and I think that the decisions that you have made in the past are indeed scandalous. It is true that many sources and prestige investments could have been delayed by a year, and these resources could have been given to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises or given to those Hungarians who temporarily lost their jobs so that they would not feel that they would not have had a chance if they had had the opportunity to survive this epidemic, which was also a kind of economic crisis in their lives. And only then, in order not to have to bring this up again to any of the Fidesz congressmen, I'll say it again, because you probably didn't remember it before: so, vaccination saves life, everyone get vaccinated. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-112	Thank you very much. There are two two-minute applicants. No one has applied for a comment, but for two minutes: MEP Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; then Member László Szakács, MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Now, Congressman Mesterházy has accused us of putting words in their mouths about anti-vaccination. It's really not good to rely on rumors, it's more important to write, there's more evidence. Tamás Csányi, Csaba Gyüre, László Szakács and Attila Mesterházy are also signed on the proposal for a decision, their signature, honourable Member, which literally says:. At the same time, our position is that in order to protect the health of Hungarian people, we cannot be vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine that is not authorised by the European Medicines Agency. There are no rumours, there are no hearsays, there is writtenness, there is signed text. That was your proposal for a resolution. I'm very glad you feel that way now, Congressman Mesterházy. The entire left, fifty Members, did not think so a few months ago, and unfortunately the majority still remained on the other side, the anti-vaccination island. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-114	Here you go, Congressman Cook, in two minutes.
u2021-04-29-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say again that we'd like everyone to take the shot. We never said anything else about it, even if that's what you guys always say. Even if you're trying to base a government policy on this, a government strategy, that's your job, by the way; I don't think you can quote anything else from us. What we said was not gossip, but your statements, as it was written in the form of speech, as my fellow Member Mesterházy said at the time. You say that these are accusations about the economy, where appropriate. Look, these are facts. You will give Lőrinc Mészáros 18 billion forints even if you dismiss 800 people. But first this week, he's gonna pick up 11 billion forints from his other company, and you're still filling his pockets. And you want a partnership for that? But if we have a proposal to take care of those who have lost their jobs, to care for those who cannot go to work because of the provisions, to raise the child, the lawn, to raise the family allowance after a few years, then there is no money, there is no partnership, there is no open ears, there is only an open ear to make a great door of antlers at a hunting exhibition of HUF 69 billion, and there is also a Lőrinc. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-116	Dear Parliament, Here's the thing. The opinions encouraged further speakers to do so. In this case, however, the House Rule states that since the Secretary of State has applied on behalf of the Government, he can give his opinion. Here, however, I must inform the Secretary of State that he is not speaking a closing phrase, but a reflection. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-29-117	Thank you for the opportunity. I'd like to go back to the facts. The bill before us is therefore about extending the emergency situation until the 15th day following the beginning of the autumn parliamentary session. It is about the fact that if the emergency is over sooner, the government can decide on this earlier, so there is no limit that this should be extended until then. It is about how, in times of emergency, the government can effectively act in cases that need to be dealt with. By the way, it has been said by others that the emergency could have been dealt with by Parliament. I would have looked at how many opposition representatives would have voted to get Sputnik and Chinese vaccines, which is now one and a half million vaccinees ahead of Western vaccines alone. Thank you for making the position soft, and today the vaccination is generally supported, and this proposal for a decision, which has been submitted to the House to prevent Chinese vaccines from being used, is no longer dared to repeat it openly here. So maybe the degree of inconclusiveness is lower. A comparison was made regarding the treatment of the H1N1 virus; I could bring in the case of the water gun and the fire extinguisher because the two cases are about comparable. So basically now we can see that we are facing a real threat, a worldwide epidemic. Practically everyone has to be vaccinated to achieve a flock immunity that wasn't mentioned at the time of that outbreak in 2009. There has been talk of local government regulation. [[Dr. László Kács: The Irregularity!]] In the case of opposition and pro-government mayors, it is common for the mayor to exercise the powers of the board in these matters, which is necessary at the time of the epidemic. [[15.50]] You could say gondolas or Balatonalmadi or other cases, I could list them myself. There are government agencies to act properly in such cases when someone is out of control. That is why I say that the Hungarian legal system keeps them closed, so they should be mentioned. My fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresz, has repeatedly mentioned this loan facility included in the EU reconstruction instrument. Today's data, according to which six states have so far announced that they wish to make use of it, only three have so far said that they are fully. We didn't say that we would use it either, but, given the current time streams, that we are practically here on the threshold of May, and no one has ever gotten a penny, perhaps even more secure than universities, if the resources that provide development are available sooner. I think there is no difference between the budget being able to secure that money now or calling it off from EU funds, it has the same fate, it serves the same purpose. I think the government would have lied if it hadn't provided resources. The fact that this is now happening from an EU or from domestic sources, in my view, is a detailed question for universities. As far as the previous regulations were concerned, it was in the first emergency announcement that the deadline had been made dependent on the evolution of the epidemic situation at that time, and precisely so that, even if Parliament did not meet, it could be terminated. If you can't meet, you shouldn't have to prolong it, because when the epidemic started, we didn't know how the defense was affected, how the virus was spreading, what options were available, what exits were available, what time period, and then, when it seemed to be in a manageable state, 90-90 days in line with the parliamentary session, this was possible. We can now see that the next parliamentary session is being convened beyond 90 days, so we are trying to bring a practical regulation to the House in line with this. With regard to the various points: the names of different businesses or entrepreneurs are not described in the draft, but I believe that those development resources were normatively available to almost everyone; for example, small businesses could receive one million HUF per room and non-refundable support in the tourism sector, with which they lived. And exactly at a time when the accommodations were closed, so this renovation period in this sense was much more favourable to now. And, by the way, we have allocated the money in advance, and I would add this, as opposed to, for example, the period before 2010, when there was always ex post accounts, bank financing, bank interest on these subsidies. So, technically, they couldn't use it in that form. I would like to live with a metaphor I may have read from Gábor Turkish that he called the opposition a six-headed dragon. Technically, if they're all made up into dragons, it doesn't matter which head speaks, the dragon speaks to us. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-29-118	Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik!
u2021-04-29-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If you've finished with this, Deputy Prime Minister Völner Sir, you quoted your speech about the seven-headed dragon or six-headed dragon and Gábor Turkish, then be precise that you also called Fidesz a dragon, only that you are a one-headed dragon, because you are a party and you have also called it a dragon. But I wouldn't want that... I thought about the one-headed dragon all of a sudden, and I'm not sure I'd be proud of that. Especially if we are on a more serious issue in this area, and we are looking at what measures the government has implemented over the past year, one year in two months, since this Covid epidemic has appeared in the world and has appeared in Hungary. And what we have seen is that the Hungarian dimension of this global epidemic, its impact, its responsibility for this is quite clear that the Hungarian government is responsible for all the measures and any measures that have not been taken in relation to the epidemic. And I do find it outrageous that you are twisting your words as you please. They change their minds the way you want them to. Indeed, at the time of the first wave, Prime Minister said that when there was hardly any death in Hungary, when we thought that this virus would not really ring in Hungary, nor would it ring in a ring, then Prime Minister said that in the number of deaths we count on the success of the defense. And then all of a sudden, in the third wave, it's so forgotten, and suddenly it doesn't matter. At the time when Hungary became the leader in per capita mortality rates around the world, you are talking about vaccination, how successful vaccination is. Yes, it is a success that as many people are vaccinated, we are happy about it. And indeed, as my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, said, every vaccine is better than any vaccine and must be protected, and protection is very important, and the only solution is indeed to combat the epidemic. And we have always said about this, we say: there has never been an opposition, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary has never been an anti-vaccination party, no matter what you try to force it on us. By the way, we are quite used to this from you, as we have seen how you have tried to campaign in the past, since the second Orbán government was established in 2010. There have been campaigns since then, what were you campaigning with in 14 years? With the reduction of the rent, which was the product of a complete scam show on your part, they tried to deceive the entire Hungarian society when they sold the gas to the population twice or three times as much as it would have cost. Compared to that, you tried to make people believe that the 25 percent reduction in gas prices was a huge activity on the part of the government, that you could achieve that by reducing the price of gas for the population, even though the world market price had fallen to a quarter of the price of gas two years ago, and it could have been reduced by half, but that's how you fooled the entire population. The next period was about migration, where also the government of the ready-made scam show tried to prove, for example, what a pro-Migration movement for Jobbik Hungary, even though we were the only party who supported the zero solution. It was you who planted 25,000 people in Hungary. Since Maria Theresa, such an alien-speaking population has not been introduced, what the Orbán government has done here in Hungary, and compared to that, you have fully communicated everywhere that you are anti-migration and that the opposition wants to break down pro-migration and fences. Shocking lies, and then, after the next agenda, we will talk about this when civil society organisations have also appeared in this campaign in connection with the Civil Organisations Act. But back here, we see that after migration, after the lies of migration, you have come up with the best campaign: anti-vaccination opposition, and you will say that everywhere. Well, I guess next April now, I don't know where the President of the Republic is going to set the election, if he does, because the emergency will not be extended three times more, so don't give me a god for an indefinite period, and the rest, and the rest, anything else, will come from you. Obviously, this is why we did not contribute a year ago to declaring the emergency for an indefinite period of time. We've had a number of suggestions on this. We have proposed the introduction of several months of emergency, the government's right to extend this emergency even for a further period of three months. You have been unable to accept any opposition proposals. When we said we had to close the schools, you opened them. When we said that the catering facilities should be closed, you opened them; you always did exactly the opposite of what the opposition suggested. I believe that the policy of Fidesz-KDNP in itself for the past 12 years is a cynicism in itself. It's a cynicism when you announced the NER system, which you called a system of national cooperation with endless cynicism. I would call this NER system an anti-national system. You have never been willing to cooperate with anyone for a single moment, and even the Covid epidemic, a pandemic of this size, where over a quarter of a hundred thousand Hungarians have died, has not led you to cooperate with the opposition in any way. The only thing you have focused on is how you can make political profit from it, how you can make political capital out of it. And what do you regret about 26 to 28,000 people dying? The point is to make sure the opposition is against vaccinations. In fact, we have heard that the opposition is directly on Covid's side. [[16.00]] They have been constantly expressing shocking lies, and obviously we know that the media that you have, which in fact gives you at least 80 percent of what you have, is that you will broadcast your own party propaganda, either without public television or public radio, and without any criticism, it follows that the NER system alone is not willing to cooperate with anyone, and unfortunately, even the epidemic has proved to us that you are unable to take into account the views of the opposition in any way or the views of others. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It follows from this that not only did so many Hungarians die because of the poor state of health, but this is also the result of the fact that you have made a series of bad decisions, and that you have managed to achieve that, unfortunately, this Hungary, this country that is destined for a better fate, this nation has come to the conclusion that the most people in the world have died from it per capita because of the epidemic. Yeah, I think so, and I'm saying it's your responsibility. This is the responsibility of Fidesz and KDNP, the responsibility of the current Hungarian government, and the responsibility of Viktor Orbán. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-29-120	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2021-04-29-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Both Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member Nacsa have spoken about this ominous resolution, and since it is now being brought up in this House for many times, I have now decided that every time that this is brought up, we too will bring up the lie. You're lying, too, Mr Secretary, and Congressman Nacsa are lying on this issue. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's on the website.]] I'm sorry to say this so simply, but unfortunately there is no other word for it. I understand that you are trying to make it look like this decision was about the need to ban the Chinese vaccine. But please, Mr. Secretary of State, Commissioner, you have not read it, you have read only those communication materials. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I read it all the time!]] That's what they were all about. If you've read it, Mr. Secretary, and you can read it. And I assume that, because you can write, I see, you must have read that the purpose of this decision was to set up a committee of inquiry. The purpose of setting up a committee of inquiry was, surprisingly, to examine something. And we've written things in it... but I'm just gonna read it now. Now I'm punishing myself and everyone else, but it looks like it's worth doing because they're talking nonsense. It is about the decision at the time... and I would add before continuing this that this was a proposal for a resolution tabled on 25 January, which was voted down on 8 March. The word "down" means that the life cycle of this initiative has ended in the Hungarian Parliament. So there's no more. It has been voted down, it has ceased to exist, or this proposal has died, so you may understand this more simply. So there's nothing to take back. Because they keep telling me to take it back, but there's nothing to take back, because there's no such proposal on the House table anymore. So what was this proposal about? The second point states that it is for the Committee to clarify, in particular, the following issues. Not a statement, not a call; clarification of the following questions. (a) Is the government aware that vaccines available or becoming available in the European Union must comply with the relevant EU quality and approval procedures and that the European Commission is not currently negotiating the Chinese vaccine? A question mark. The following is: (b) According to the Prime Minister's Office's announcement, why was the Chinese manufacturer Sinopharm agreed and how much vaccine did the Government negotiate? A question mark. The third is: (c) What specific studies are being carried out by the Hungarian health authorities in relation to the Chinese vaccine, under which authorisation procedure should it undergo? A question mark. The fourth is:, (d) Based on what vaccination plan does the Government plan to mass-inoculate the population, taking into account the request of the Council of the Retirement Organisations to use only vaccines over the age of 60 that have been approved by the European Medicines Agency, in which the Hungarian people trust and subsequently ensure freedom of movement within the EU? A question mark. The fifth is: - (e) Has the Government carried out a thorough examination of the health effects of the implementation of its planned provisions, and what is the content of the survey? A question mark. The sixth is: (f) What content and amount of vaccine contracts did the Government conclude, in particular in the context of the fact that the Ministry of Finance has recently allocated tens of billions of HUF to the purchase of vaccines outside the framework contract in Brussels? A question mark. Now, Secretary of State, this is the resolution proposal that we have tabled. What you refer to is the statement in the explanatory statement, which, of course, is part of the proposal, but does not say anything about the committee of inquiry and the proposal for a decision. You know that. If there is a legal interpretation problem about what we want to do in the committee of inquiry, because it is not clear from what I have read so far that there may be cattle, pardons who do not understand what we would have wanted to achieve with this committee of inquiry, then, of course, in a court dispute, or I don't know, in the TAB debate, what was the idea in the justification, what was the idea that we wanted to set up this committee for. So in Hungarian, I understand that I would like to make it look like this proposal was about banning the Chinese vaccine, but this proposal was not about that, my honourable fellow Member, honourable Secretary of State, but about a committee of inquiry examining what is happening in Hungary and why it is happening with this Chinese vaccine. I would add that there were also two other proposals for committee of inquiry, which were also voted down, of course, on other issues of disease management. And just for the sake of historical fidelity, if we are always taught democracy here, that when those ugly MSZP left-wing governments were, you have initiated any committee of inquiry in this House, that committee of inquiry has always been supported and set up by the then government and the governing majority. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The Tochik was the last!]] And I will decipher for you, Mr. Secretary, how many committees of inquiry you have supported. It is not very difficult to guess: they supported the setting up of a zero committee of inquiry. I think that, when we compare these two, this also tells us a great deal about how you think about the opposition, how you think about Hungarian parliamentarism and how you think about how much you need to work together in this House to resolve certain national political fate issues. Nothing, I'll tell you. You're looking at their political benefits, and there's so much insolence that you're doing that, while you're accusing the opposition of that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-29-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if he has anything to say after this.
u2021-04-29-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Attila Mesterházy: Convinced!]] Don't leave the loose ends untied. So my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy mentioned the justification. I'm just saying what's in it. At the same time, our position is that we claim that this is what you have said, and here you admit that your position, and all of you have signed, is that in order to protect the health of Hungarian people, we cannot be vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine in Hungary that is not authorised by the European Medicines Agency. Therefore, you have recommended that all vaccines not authorised by the European Medicines Agency be rejected. So this applies to Sputnik and the Chinese according to the rules of molding logic. So if Parliament had listened to you, there would have been virtually about a million people less vaccinated in Hungary today. [[16.10]] This, of course, is organically linked to the kind of death campaign that your expert has announced that the more dead there are, the more grieving relatives the opposition parties can count on. It is in your interest that few people inoculate themselves, cause more trouble, and use it against the government. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Technically, if you look at the events of the last few weeks, months, that's what comes out of it. You refuse to take into account the comparative statistics made available by Eurostat, stating that we have the world's most dying. Technically, if you looked at the other statistical sequences, you wouldn't. I am not saying that we are doing well in the epidemic, unfortunately we have been beaten through this country, unfortunately, the health of the population and the virus strains that have increased the severity of the epidemic have emerged, but to abuse it on your part, and in such a way that they question the way in which vaccine purchases are made from elsewhere, and it is included in this that they cannot be used, and when we say that they are anti-vaccinations, and you say that we are lying, I can only say that the word goes away, the writing remains. The writing is there, regardless of how they can't undo it, and it's very good that they can't undo it, because that's how it turns out what they've done. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for international judicial cooperation on parental responsibility until closure. The government referral is T/15967. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2021-04-29-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the key objectives of the Government and the Ministry of Justice is to ensure the protection of children, to increase the enforcement of children's main interests in the various judicial and administrative proceedings affecting them. The government is now presenting you with a bill that serves this purpose in a specific and, at the same time, very sensitive area of cross-border family law. For children, the separation of their parents is psychologically stressful, and it is much more difficult for them to experience the separation of parents if they imagine their lives in different countries. Moving to another country, due to the large geographical distance, can mean a real separation from one parent, but even at a smaller distance, it can cause complications, for example, in a pandemic situation similar to the current one. In addition to the distance from the other parent, children may find it difficult to enter another linguistic, cultural environment, new communities, even in situations that differ significantly from the former. In such a situation, it is particularly important that courts and authorities have the appropriate means to enforce the interests of the child. Today, there is also a separate legal arrangement for cross-border parental supervision lawsuits, contact cases, and cases where one parent voluntarily takes the child to another State without the consent of the other parent or the approval of the competent authority. At the same time, not only the Hungarian but also the international experience is that legal solutions developed decades ago for such cases do not always provide an opportunity to make a well-founded decision that takes the best account of the interests of the children concerned. Work in the European Union has been ongoing from 2016 to 2019 with active Hungarian participation in reforming existing EU legislation. As a result, Council Regulation 2019/1111 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of matrimonial and parental responsibilities and the illegal taking of children abroad was adopted. On the one hand, this bill creates the necessary legislation for the implementation of the regulation in Hungary, but on the other hand it goes well beyond that. By applying the Regulation, there will be a much wider opportunity to provide solutions and guarantees to protect the interests of children in family matters between EU Member States. In order to ensure that these legal institutions can be applied in cases involving third States, the bill will incorporate them into internal law, thereby ensuring greater protection of the interests of children in all cross-border family matters. Another important objective of the bill, regardless of the EU regulation, is to modernise the legislation on the domestic application of the Convention on the Civil Rights of Child Abduction in the Hague, dated 25 October 1980, from 1988, making the interests of children even more important in these matters. Dear House, I would like to begin with a detailed presentation of the bill, first of all, by presenting the legislation relating to the EU regulation. The new regulation provides for simpler and more efficient procedures for the enforcement of parental responsibility, according to Hungarian legal terminology, of decisions on parental supervision and contacts in another Member State. One of the most important elements of this is that the regulation completely abolishes the exequatur procedure for all parental responsibility decisions, which will save time and money for interested citizens. In order to implement the current EU regulation, Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003, a parental supervisory decision taken in one EU Member State, most cases require the declaration of enforceability in the other EU Member State first and only then effective implementation if necessary. Under the new regulation, the person concerned may already request the enforcement of a decision from another Member State directly; of course, the same is true for the implementation of Hungarian decisions in other Member States. One of the key objectives of the regulation is also to strengthen the child's right to be heard. A child of judgement should be given a genuine and effective opportunity to be heard and the child's opinion should be taken into account in accordance with his or her age and maturity. If the child's right to an opinion has not been granted, the enforcement of the decision taken in another Member State may be refused. Accordingly, the bill provides for the possibility of expressing an opinion not only in cross-border but also in domestic matters on all parental supervision and contact procedures for children with judgement. The determining court or guardianship authority shall notify the child directly of the possibility of expressing its views. Thus, if the case becomes cross-border later, the implementation of a Hungarian judicial or guardianship decision in another EU Member State will not be refused on the grounds of the lack of the possibility of expressing a child's opinion. Although the Regulation ensures that parental responsibility decisions in other Member States are implemented as quickly as possible, it introduces uniform rules for suspension or refusal of enforcement in exceptional cases. In order to ensure the best interests of the children concerned, the bill also provides for the possibility of suspending or refusing the implementation of the foreign decision in view of the interests of the child or the significant change of circumstances outside the EU. However, the court may decide to do so only in exceptional cases where enforcement is already directly detrimental to the child's interests, since it would have a serious risk of physical or psychological harm to him. A further condition for suspension of enforcement is that it may be requested only for reasons arising after the decision has been taken or for a significant change in circumstances, where this temporarily threatens the interests of the child on a temporary basis. The court may order the termination of enforcement only if the risk to the interests of the child persists. The Regulation also amended the rules on the illegal abduction of children in several respects in matters involving EU Member States. For example, it expands the possibilities of acting courtship in child-taking cases by taking interim measures, some of which also have cross-border effects. The court may also take interim protection measures to protect the child from possible physical or psychological harm resulting from his or her return, and that measure may be implemented in another Member State until otherwise decided in the parental custody suit. The bill takes this into account in all domestic miscarriage procedures, i.e. outside the EU, to ensure that the Hungarian court can impose protection measures in relation to ordering the return of the child. This will increase the protection of the interests of the children concerned compared to the current domestic legislation, since it will also provide protection for a period after the return of the child to the State of his habitual residence, or, if it is possible to implement the measure in Hungary, in the absence of compliance with the measure, the enforcement of a decision ordering the return of the child cannot be ordered in Hungary. [[16.20]] In order to give effect to decisions falling within the scope of this Regulation in other Member States, nine certificates may be issued for such decisions on the basis of the models set out in the Annexes to this Regulation. The bill also regulates, by amending the relevant domestic legislation and introducing new rules, which Hungarian courts and guardians are competent to issue certificates under the regulation, as well as which courts are competent to carry out procedures for the recognition, enforcement, recognition and refusal of enforcement of decisions in other Member States. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned earlier, while laying down rules for the implementation of the new EU regulation, the other key part of the bill is the modernisation of the legislation on the domestic implementation of the Hague Child Adoption Convention. The Hague Convention covers matters which are usually a serious crisis for children: when one parent takes the child permanently and permanently abroad without the consent of the other parent and without the approval of the competent authority, or does not return the child after an authorised travel abroad. It is in the best interest of the child in these cases that the serious family-law conflict should be resolved as soon as possible and therefore, under the Hague Convention, the return of the child will be decided by the court in an out-of-court procedure, the court in the State where the child was unlawfully brought, and the backward parent may request the assistance of the so-called central authorities designated in the States Parties to the Convention in order to initiate such foreign judicial proceedings. In 1986, our country joined the Convention among the first to implement it, until today, under 7/1988. It's an IM regulation. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the judicial non-court proceedings on the return of the child at a legal level, to codify decades of good practice, to clarify the tasks of individual authorities and to regulate issues which have not previously been codified, such as the right of the parties to access the file. The bill preserves the solution that the designation of courts in child-incarnation cases is centralised, which contributes to the conduct of judges who are well aware of the specifics of child-incarnation cases in such cases. Accordingly, the Central District Court of Pesti has exclusive jurisdiction in child-taking proceedings, and the bill also excludes the proceedings of the court-secretary in these cases. It is in the interest of the child that the proceedings should be carried out out out of order and that, on the basis of the bill, the court may order the applicant to contact the child with a temporary measure, even in the absence of the conditions laid down in the Civil Procedure Act. In order to reduce the duration of court proceedings for the adoption of children, the bill provides for shorter procedural deadlines than the current one, and also lays down provisions to facilitate the successful conduct of mediation between the parties. An important innovation of the bill is that it will also allow the implementation of the Hungarian judicial decisions ordering the return of a child brought back to Hungary illegally under the Hague Child Adoption Convention. These decisions shall be made only on an exceptional basis. The defendant may request the termination of the execution of the decision ordering the return of the child if the enforcement would no longer be in the best interest of the child because of the obstacles that arose after the decision was taken or because of a lasting and significant change in circumstances, since in such cases the return of the child would entail a serious risk of physical or psychological harm. In addition, in order to involve authorities with information on the current situation of the child in the preparation of significant decisions concerning the child, the bill also requires that the opinion of the guardian authority be obtained in the event of a request for suspension or refusal of all enforcement. Of course, the best interest of children would be to prevent illegal foreign affairs. Under the applicable civil code, the decision on the dispute between parents regarding the designation of a child's place of residence abroad falls within the scope of guardianship. In practice, however, there is uncertainty as to who has the power to decide the dispute about moving a child abroad if parents are also in the process of having a parental custody suit. The bill makes it clear that, in the event of a dispute between the parents, the parent concerned may only ask the guardianship authority to designate the child's place of residence abroad for a long period of time or for the purpose of establishment if there is no legal procedure for parental supervision between the parents at the time of the application. If legal proceedings are pending, the question of moving abroad cannot be separated from the question of exercising parental custody, in such cases the court should also decide on the issue of moving abroad. One of the foundations for a successful settlement of cross-border cases is that the courts and authorities of the States concerned can cooperate effectively. In view of this, both the Child Adoption Convention and the Regulation provide for the designation of central authorities to assist States in enforcing their rights, on the one hand, and the courts and authorities, on the other hand, in cooperating. The bill does not change the current Hungarian central authority system, the Hungarian central authority of the Hague Child Adoption Convention remains the Ministry of Justice. As regards the regulation, two Hungarian central authorities are involved: the Ministry of Justice continues to carry out the central authority tasks related to child abduction, while the other central authority tasks under the decree are mainly child protection tasks performed by the Ministry of Human Resources, which oversees the professional supervision of guardianship authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, An increasing number of Hungarian children are involved in international family law disputes. Cross-border procedures are undoubtedly more complicated than domestic cases, the international dimension of cases could be a significant additional burden for both the courts, authorities and the parties concerned. At the same time, it is very important that these procedures are carried out as quickly as possible in order to protect the best interests of children, to ensure that children feel that their opinions matter and, if necessary, the means are available to protect them from physical and psychological trauma in parental control or contact procedures. The bill presented intends to contribute precisely to this noble objective, so I ask for your support and the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. László Salacz and Lőrinc Nacsa applaud.]]
u2021-04-29-126	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-04-29-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have come to the debate on a priority proposal aimed at a comprehensive re-regulation of cross-border parental responsibilities. These are extremely sensitive family law issues, so it is important that legislation based on previous practical experience ensures that children's interests in different procedures are enhanced. The bill before us serves a twofold purpose: on the one hand, it sets out the provisions necessary for the domestic implementation of Regulation (EU) No 2019/111/EU on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters of matrimonial and parental responsibility, and on the other hand, it re-regulates the application in Hungary of the Convention on the Civil Rights of Child Abuse in the Hague, 1980. The Regulation provides for simpler and more efficient procedures for the implementation of parental responsibility decisions in other Member States. One of the most important elements of this is that the regulation completely abolishes the exequatur procedure for all parental responsibility decisions, so that the execution of a parental supervision decision in another Member State can be achieved more quickly and at less cost. Accordingly, while, under the current EU regulation, the declaration of enforceability of the decision is necessary for the implementation in Hungary of most of the parental supervision decisions in one of the EU Member States, under the new legislation, the person concerned can already request enforcement directly from the Hungarian court on the basis of a decision in another Member State. The same facilitation applies to the implementation of Hungarian parental responsibility decisions in other Member States. One of the key objectives of the Regulation is also to strengthen the right of children to be heard. As the Regulation states, a child of judgement should be given a genuine and effective opportunity to be heard and the opinion of the child should be taken into account in accordance with his or her age and maturity. [[16.30]] Accordingly, in Hungary, it is necessary to ensure that children are given the opportunity to be heard by the courts or guardians. Ladies and gentlemen, The regulation also amended the rules relating to the adoption procedure in several respects, such as extending the possibilities of the court in child-taking cases by taking interim measures, for example, on the relationship between the child and the parent who is left behind for the duration of the procedure, and some of which also have cross-border effects. The court may take a temporary protection measure to protect the child from possible physical or psychological harm resulting from the return, such as an obligation on the other party to ensure that the child and the parent caring for him or her live abroad, if this cannot be done otherwise after the return. This measure may be implemented in the other Member State until otherwise decided in the parental supervision suit. Dear House, Another important objective of the proposal is to modernise the legislation on the domestic implementation of the Convention on the Civil Rights of Child Abduction. The illegal introduction of a child abroad is a serious crisis for the children concerned which needs to be dealt with in an accelerated procedure as soon as possible. Our country joined the Convention among the first in 1986. However, the regulation laying down domestic procedural rules is now subject to review. The need for re-regulation was also highlighted by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and the Constitutional Court also referred to the need for revision in a decision in an illegal child-taking case. The aim of the proposal is therefore to modernise, to codify good practice in cases of child abduction and international contact, to clearly define the tasks of the various authorities and to raise the legal level of judicial non-court proceedings currently regulated at the level of the regulation. The proposal provides for shorter procedural deadlines to reduce the duration of judicial proceedings in child-taking cases than is currently the case. The proposal focuses on promoting the peaceful settlement of the dispute between the central authorities, the courts and the guardians, as well as on promoting mediation, since the best interests of the child can be served by the ability of parents to reach an agreement and to settle the fate of their children in the long term. It also serves to better ensure the interests of the child that, on the basis of the proposal, the court may, in the course of the child-in-carriage procedure, provide the applicant and the child with a temporary measure of contact during the course of the proceedings. Dear Parliament, There are a number of things that could be highlighted in relation to the proposal, which, by means of more modern and more detailed rules, contribute to a more effective resolution of certain disputes involving broken-up families across borders and to greater enforcement of the interests of the child concerned. Given that the increased protection of children's interests is a priority issue for the Fidesz Group and that the relevant legislation is constantly being reviewed, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-128	Thank you very much, Congressman László Salacz. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Csányi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-04-29-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I think that, in the debate on this law, we will have more common views than different ones, so let me start my speech with a little, short introduction. With the creation of the internal market and the creation of the Schengen area, the free, unrestricted movement of persons between Member States has been achieved within the Union and, at the same time, the cases with cross-border elements have become a mass. However, this also raises a number of security risks, the solution of which is unthinkable without cooperation between home affairs and judicial bodies. Accordingly, the Member States have institutionalised their cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs, and even the Member States have established an area of freedom, security and justice, or at least they want to build it. The quote from the regulation is as follows: it is essential for the Union to have a smooth and proper functioning of the EU area of justice, respecting the different legal systems and traditions of the Member States; mutual trust in each other's judicial systems should be further strengthened in this respect. The Union has set itself the objective of establishing, maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons and access to justice are ensured. With a view to achieving this objective, the rights of persons, in particular children, in legal proceedings should be strengthened with a view to facilitating cooperation between judicial and administrative authorities and the implementation of decisions with cross-border implications in the area of family law. The mutual recognition of decisions in civil matters should be stepped up, access to justice simplified and the exchange of information between Member States' authorities improved. So, in essence, we need to talk about this proposal along this line. It has perhaps not yet been said that the 2019 Council regulation will apply from 1 August 2022, so we must also comply with this harmonisation effort in Hungary. The regulation provides simpler and more efficient procedures to ensure the best interests of the child, we can read, which primarily saves time and money for the citizens concerned, and we can clearly say and agree on this, that time is of fundamental importance in relation to matters relating to children, as we can read from the justification. A key objective is also to strengthen the child's right to be heard, both from the Minister of State's exposé and from the voice of our fellow Fidesz Member, and to draw attention here to a very important thing, this means the concept of a child with judgment for me, because he must provide a real and effective opportunity to be heard, and his opinion must, of course, be taken into account. I'd like to take the 17th floor right here. Article 5a, which also provides some clarification in this regard. I quote from the explanatory statement:, it ensures that the parties are heard and the child's opinion taken into account in the proceedings as widely and as warrantily as possible; this is the proposal that we have in our hands; and the assessment of that fact, and the assessment of the story here may be a little bit of a concern, the assessment of the fact that a child has judgment, ultimately only after hearing it, can be revealed with complete certainty for the court. And here the proposal gives the court a discretion, which may even be of concern in certain cases, not assuming, of course, malice. The regulation also amends the rules on the illegal abduction of children in a number of respects, such as extending the possibilities of a court in child-taking cases by taking interim measures by the courts. Contact can be said here, for example, during the procedure, which may be important for those involved, and this should be welcomed. In addition, the proposal also allows for the abolition of the implementation of the Hungarian judicial decisions ordering the return of a child entered into Hungary illegally under the Convention. It focuses on the best interests of the child, but it is said that this can be done on an exceptional basis. What I think is very important and what we are constantly experiencing in reading this text is that it always puts the child's interests first and foremost as the most important goal, and I think that everyone should be able to support it, so I think that we can do the same. It was also mentioned in the expoze that nine certificates can be issued, which are included in the annex, and I would not be interested in doing so. Another important objective of the proposal is to modernise the legislation on the implementation of the Convention in Hungary, irrespective of the Regulation. It has already been said that it is a regulation in the '80s, which had to be passed through a wrinkle lift. In the interests of the child, an effective procedure should be provided to help to resolve the situation of family law as soon as possible by eliminating the illegal situation of taking the child abroad and to keep the interests of the children concerned as low as possible. It's totally fine. Here I have a clarification question for the Secretary of State, and the following, which says that in the last decade, the number of conflicts on international family law has also increased sharply, perhaps the Secretary of State has also referred to this in his exposé with a sentence. [[16.40]] I was wondering if we might have a number on this. I'll tell you why this question can be exciting. Article 10 We also heard in the expozet that the Pesti Central District Court has exclusive jurisdiction to carry out the return proceedings in respect of any number of children who have been unlawfully brought to Hungary. If there is a very large number of cases, I do not know, and I will expect clarification in this regard, then my question would be whether there is sufficient capacity to resolve and deal with these cases, especially in the light of the fact that a decision must be taken within six weeks of the submission of the application and the same deadline applies to higher education courts. So these cases are dealt with in an accelerated way and out of order. And I suppose, as a man of no law, that if there are a large number of them, they may be at the expense of the other cases in court practice. I would ask the Secretary of State to come forward in this closing or even during the debate. Thank you very much in advance. Following the analysis of the proposal, there was a question of sensitive family law issues in this law, and thus the reduction of the duration of court proceedings is a very important aspect that we can see in several places and therefore provides for shorter deadlines. There are two places we can meet with this. I'm going to ask for another clarification here. 20. With regard to §2 of the Act, I see that speedy administration is of paramount importance in cases of child abduction. We read here that it is for the speeding up of the procedure to reduce the 15-day time limit for appeals under the general rule to 8 days, and that the deadline for submitting counter-interested comments was reduced from 15 days to 5 days. That's good, that's good, that's good, let's keep these cases moving, because it's in the child's best interest. However, Article 8 shall apply. The wording is no longer so clear in paragraph 5 and I would like a clarification here, if that makes any sense at all. It's called the 8th. The justification in Article 7 (c) of the Convention is that, in the interests of the child concerned, this is, of course, in order to resolve the matter peacefully outside judicial proceedings, the Hungarian Central Authority for Child Adoption shall contact the applicant as soon as possible and inform him of the request received by short-term or even personal discussion. Here I have two expressions with my problems, the soon-to-be and the short-distance terms. If it was possible to clarify the number of days in the previous paragraph, it might also be possible to state clearly how many days the day means as soon as possible and what it means, how many days it means. This may seem merely a prank, but if we are accurate in one of them, then perhaps it would be appropriate to use precise wording here as well. The proposal also includes the fact that the Ministry of Justice functions as a central authority for child abduction, and the EMMI is a central authority for child protection in this case. Unfortunately, I have to say that the experience, the comments that have come to me on social security issues are certainly of concern about the attitude of the EMMI, because the mills are very slowly grinding towards it, and speed as a requirement may not be met. It would be appropriate to consider how this could be avoided, whether the capacity is inadequate or simply not able to deal with such matters with sufficient speed. We could stick to the proposal before us for a very long time, since there is a great deal of justification and the number of paragraphs before us, but allow me, Mr Secretary, to focus more on the history at the end, because this whole situation comes when parents decide to divorce and set their lives on separate paths, and the placement of the child is indeed a problem. I think that after the divorce, parents who remain alone with their children will have to raise them alone. The Hungarian court practice is also catastrophic, and in many cases the child support fee is irrecoverable. I think that it would be worthwhile for the government to deal with these in the coming period, and not just with the subject that lies before us right now, because in Hungary, too, within our borders, there are very many similar cases, although it seems to have been affected by the Secretary of State. We recommend that you deal with this much more intensively, because the life situation of single parents is very difficult in today's period, because instead of the family allowance of HUF 12 200, they can receive a family allowance of HUF 13 700, which is HUF 1500, I do not think is such a big help for the single parent. The EPP Jobbik would have made a number of amendments in this regard and several proposals were put on the table. I wouldn't mention that right now, because that's obviously not our topic. I would just like to signal that we are dealing with this matter, and we are waiting for the government to take appropriate action. I would also ask Mr Secretary of State, as a representative of the government, to finally create conditions in Hungary so that families can stay together, for example, without having to take on a foreign job from the family, thereby contributing to the break-up or disintegration of families in Hungary. In the homeland, all our countrymen can manage, and I believe that this can be a fundamental expectation for a government, and you must meet that requirement. And if a couple have decided that they can no longer live together, they do not plan to live together, but they do support single - parent families to a much greater extent, because the single - parent family is also a family. Thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to your answers.
u2021-04-29-130	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Csányi. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-04-29-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The aim of the bill before us is to re-regulation cross-border parental responsibility cases in a way that, on the basis of previous practical experience, will increase the interest of children in the various procedures. This is a very important issue, and measures to further strengthen the legal certainty of our children across borders are included in the bill. As my fellow Member has said, there may be more consensus in this debate than there is the debate between us. Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has been pursuing a pro-life, childbearing and family-friendly policy. In this year's budget for 2021, Hungary spends 5.2 percent of GDP on family support, making Hungary the first in Europe in this respect. While family support was only HUF 960 billion in 2010, this year it was HUF 2600 billion. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been working to strengthen families with children so that it is better to have children and to be a better child in Hungary. To this end, family tax breaks, free textbooks, free and discounted children's meals, baby shower support, family protection action plan, home creation program, nursery constructions and Erzsébet camps will also contribute without the need for completeness. In our view, the born children have the right to safety, spiritual, material, physical security, a calm, stable, loving family environment for their healthy physical and spiritual development. We are committed to child protection, children's rights. On November 20, 1989, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which Hungary joined among the first to be declared by the first freely elected Hungarian Parliament in 1991. This convention is an important pillar of Hungarian child protection, and this UN document has been considered one of the most widely accepted and supported international conventions ever since. The Convention also regards children as having the same rights as adults, who, in addition to fundamental rights, are entitled to special or additional rights. It is important to point out that this UN document considers the family to be a necessary and natural medium for the harmonious development and well-being of the child. It also shows that the role, function, definition of the family at the time, thirty years ago, was still natural, normal, and was not questioned on a daily basis. [[16.50]] The family's prominent role as a natural, normal, harmonious community is exactly what we Christian Democrats think, which is why, among other things, we welcomed and actively participated in last year's and previous years' legislative changes to protect children and facilitate their adoption, as well as in strengthening the foster family network, as we are talking about an important institution, which, I think, is exemplary in Hungary. Children who cannot live with their biological parents because of any circumstances are deprived of the family environment are provided by the Hungarian State. Currently, there are 23,000 children in the Hungarian child protection system, and it is good news that 70 percent of the 23,000 children live in foster parents and 30 percent are in institutions. We want to continue to increase this rate. Even in recent years, we have achieved a number of results in the fact that more and more children can live in family environments and foster parents. This is why recognition of foster parenthood as an employment relationship and the campaign or training series that has been successful in recent years have been an important step forward, so now 70 percent of the 23,000 children can live in foster parents and in a family environment. On average, thousands of adoptions take place in Hungary each year. The amendment of the law adopted by the Parliament set the goal of allowing the number of adoptions to continue to increase, therefore it amended the previous long, excessively bureaucratic adoption rules, placing children's interests and safety in the highest priority. In our opinion, we believe that each child has the best place in the family. In the work on child protection legislation, we have now reached another stage when we are planning to transpose a European Council regulation into the domestic legal order, and we are implementing the re-regulation of an international treaty in Hungary. The EU Council Regulation (EU) No 1111/2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial and parental responsibility and the illegal abduction of children provides for simpler and more effective procedures for the implementation of parental responsibility decisions in other Member States. One important objective of the regulation is to strengthen the child's right to be heard. Accordingly, the proposal provides, on a comprehensive basis, for the possibility of expressing an opinion, not only in cross-border matters but also in domestic matters, of children in their judgement, requiring the court or guardianship authority to inform the child directly that they may request to be heard. The bill also includes the modernisation of the legislation on the implementation of the Convention on the Civil Rights of Child Abduction in The Hague on 25 October 1980 in Hungary. Hungary also joined the Convention among the first in 1986, but domestic procedural rules need to be reviewed according to both the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, the present proposal aims at modernising, codifying good practice in cases of child abduction and international contact, clearly fixing the tasks of the various authorities and bringing the court's non-court proceedings currently regulated at the level of the Ministry of Justice regulation to a legal level. The present proposal therefore contributes to a more effective resolution of certain disputes involving broken-up families and to greater enforcement of the main interests of the children concerned by a more detailed, modern and comprehensive regulation. With such a bill, we could have no responsibility but to always look at the interests of children, so the KDNP fraction will support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-04-29-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The central issue to be addressed in the proposal is a very important issue, which is the settlement of disputes with children, in particular the prevention of child abduction abroad. Taking the child abroad is an act of self-destruction by one parent, without the consent of the other parent, and in violation of his supervisory rights, or in another country. The proposal is relevant in a number of respects and represents important legal steps in relation to a long-term problem. In 2017, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights conducted a comprehensive investigation into how cases of child abduction are handled in Hungary. The investigation brought devastating results: between January 2010 and December 2015, the number of incoming cases doubled, from 12 to 28, and the number of outgoing cases almost tripled, from 44 to 111. In the report, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also stated that neither Hungarian legislation nor official practice adequately ensures that children are not illegally taken abroad. In the report, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights drew attention to a number of other shortcomings. It pointed out that the requested government offices do not have data on unlawful removal cases. There are no ministerial statistics on the frequency or frequency of child abduction cases. He memorized it because it's Btk. it does not refer to child abduction as a criminal offence and therefore criminal data are not available. It also pointed out that the regulation of the procedure followed in the case of unlawful removal raises problems and contradictions which the law enforcement bodies cannot resolve in their practice. In conjunction with the previous point, it can be concluded that, in view of the shortcomings in the implementing rules in the field, the established legal situation causes maladministration in relation to the principle of the rule of law and the requirement of legal certainty, and raises the risk that the principle of treatment appropriate to the best interests of the child may be infringed in practice. Here he also mentioned the Commissioner's agreement that the domestic legislation relating to the Hague child adoption agreement could otherwise be reviewed. This is partly done in the proposal. Similar problems and concerns have been raised by the Commissioner as well by the fact that a large number of the professionals involved are rarely and more limited in the availability of specialised training on the prevention of child abduction while the number of cases is constantly increasing. In the case, the Commissioner also suggested that it would be important to prepare a common professional protocol and an updated prevention manual on situations that could potentially lead to illegal removal cases. Referring to the problem, the Constitutional Court also dealt with the Commissioner's report. On the one hand, the Board drew attention to the fact that the requirement of a fair procedure laid down in Article 28 (1) of the Fundamental Law gives rise to the obligation of the courts to disclose the interests of the child as widely as possible and to use all possible means of proof offered by the parties in the proceedings in the child's case of unlawful removal, in order to make the interests of the minor child clearly and clearly clear to the court; on the other hand, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights AJB-1299/2018. In its report in Case No 1 in connection with the proceedings relating to the unlawful removal of the child, he identified a number of maladministrations in a number of places and called on the competent ministers to initiate a change in the legal environment. Based on the above, it can be seen that this is an extremely complex problem. It is important to note that this problem occurs in many areas of child protection. Several submissions from the MSZP on child prostitution and trafficking have been made to the relevant ministries. The reason for this was that, due to the weakening of the network protecting children's interests, the number of cases of child prostitution has dramatically increased, placing us first in this sad category at EU level. It is true that there have been legislative attempts in the area in 2020, but this remains a question of why the government has not actually done more in this area, and why it has not made any meaningful progress between 2015 and 20. The illegal taking of children abroad is the other side of this problem, since each case can be traced back to the fact that children's rights, especially their protection, are not adequately guaranteed in Hungary today. The proposal intends to partially remedy this by allowing for a faster procedure in the relevant cases, requiring more effective enforcement tools for the courts, while allowing children to be heard more widely, helping them to make a decision appropriate to their needs. [[17.00]] In the latter case, it is important to refer to a circumstance, and this is the institution of family-friendly justice. Family matters are usually a burden for an entire family, if they also decide on custody, and this is particularly harmful to the child. This is particularly true when these disputes are linked, for example, to the settlement of the financial issues of a divorce. The formation of the Hungarian courts also shows an area of opposition to each other. Such an environment is essentially not suitable for the hearing of a child by a court. It would therefore be important, in conjunction with the present proposal, to increase the number of rooms and professionals capable of hearing the child, if they wish to increase the possibilities of hearing the child, so that the child is not traumatized by the fact that the court is listening to him otherwise. In this context, the proposal itself points out that it is important that judges with sufficient expertise and experience in such matters should act, but referring back to the findings of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the training relating to these matters is quite incomplete in Hungary today. Overall, it is questionable how much the present proposal and the Government's future legislative plan will address the shortcomings expressed by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in his report and which are also shared by the Constitutional Court. Although there are satisfactory elements in the proposal in this area, such as the clarification of procedural and jurisdictional rules on the assignment of foreign residence. Finally, it is important to draw attention to a problem that has arisen recently. The social workers' union drew attention to the fact that, as of 1 January 2021, the reliability assessment could also be carried out for workers in social child protection institutions maintained by DG Social and Child Protection. The trade union also draws attention to the fact that, according to their information, employers were suspended immediately in case of refusal of consent for the conduct of the investigation. This is obviously unacceptable. No one should be obliged to submit to a procedure in which they may otherwise carry out secret data collection. This specific measure further weakens the child protection network, which will prevent the objectives of this proposal from being achieved. I wanted to say this last thing to you, Mr. Secretary of State, that it was necessary for the government to achieve that the social network, the social net that is bleeding from a thousand wounds, will be further weakened and, let's say, leave the field with a mass of professionals. I think we can't afford to lose more people in this business right now. Nevertheless, we will support the proposal because there are forward-looking initiatives, but regardless of the reason why I said the criticisms is because the government should have taken much more action in these matters in the past period. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-04-29-134	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Dear Parliament, Now we have two-minute speeches if I see a candidate on the screen. [[There's no candidate.]] I can't see. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2021-04-29-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only a few questions were raised, so there are about 40-50 cases running on the PKK, which, of course, is a leap compared to the previous ones, but the organisation can handle it. There was this deadline-story that it was very difficult to spell it out more precisely, because in this case, the authority actually plays a coordinating, helpful role, and we need to get the data from somewhere else, and we may need additions. So it is in vain to set a specific deadline, but what if they fail to comply, or if they do not do so with due care, or if they exceed the deadline, so it was difficult to put it more clearly, and this is related to the application, so there may also be other problems with the location, so there is no better solution to this. As regards Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's last suggestion, it is certainly not the subject of this proposal. These are usually stories from such press, and I very much hope that we will not see this here in the future. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We hope so too.]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-136	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the transparency of civil society organisations engaged in activities capable of influencing public life and the amendment of certain related laws will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/15991. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the rapporteur on the agenda, who speaks his thoughts on the pulpit. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2021-04-29-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In view of the objectives they pursue and the means at their disposal, some civil society organisations may have a significant influence on public life and public debate. An increase in the transparency of financial assistance to such organisations should also be considered as an objective which can also be considered as an overriding reason of public interest. These words stand for the Court of Justice of the European Union in Article C-78/18 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In its judgment in Commission v Hungary. On 18 June 2020, the bill before us implements a judgment on the transparency of civil society organisations engaged in activities capable of influencing public life and amending certain related laws. In this judgment, the Board took a position on the 2017 LVI on transparency of organisations supported from abroad. Law, that is, the Transparency Act. In this regard, in addition to raising objections to certain provisions of the legislation, the Court confirmed that the transparency of the financing of organisations with a significant influence on political life and democratic discourse is in the interest of all of us, in other words the public interest. The debate was therefore not about the intended objective, but about the choice of means to achieve it. Brussels and Hungary share a common position in this respect, and the Court of Justice has also ruled on this, ensuring maximum transparency. There's no and there's no debate between us. In view of this, and taking into account the decision of the Court of Justice, the Government, at the same time as repealing the Transparency Act, proposes the creation of a new regulation in line with European Union law, which will resolve the conflict in a satisfactory manner with the modification of the instrument and achieve the jointly strengthened objective of transparency. The proposal in front of you, which consists of nine paragraphs in total, does not impose a greater burden on civil society organisations than before, nor does it require more than was previously expected, i.e. to operate transparently. Ladies and Gentlemen, The law before you, the Fundamental Law, VIII. Pursuant to Article 2 (2), everyone in Hungary has the right to set up organisations and to join organisations. Organisations created under the right of association have traditionally been regarded by Hungarian law as a manifestation of social self-organization. The Hungarian state supports and acknowledges the significant contribution of more than 60,000 NGOs to promoting our common values and goals. [[17.10]] The right of association means, in particular, the freedom to choose the purpose of the merger and the freedom to set up an organisation assigned to that purpose, as well as the voluntary nature of joining and exiting it. However, the freedom of association does not mean that an association can be set up uncontrolled for the pursuit of any activity, and because of this particular role in society, there is a fundamental public interest in ensuring that it is clear what interests these organisations represent. In 2017, when the Transparency Act was adopted, the legislator was guided by the objective of ensuring, on the one hand, the transparency of foreign aid and, on the other hand, the enforcement of Community interests and social expectations. This legitimate objective has been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union itself. As previously, the Hungarian Government has fully complied with the judgment of the Court of Justice in the present case and has taken the appropriate measures to implement it. To this end, and in the light of its findings confirmed in the Bíróróság judgment, it prepared and submitted this bill aimed at strengthening the transparent functioning of civil society organisations. Dear House, Transparency is a legitimate democratic expectation, a European value that is of paramount importance to all of us. The transparency of non-governmental organisations' funding as an objective has been confirmed by several international fora outside the EU Court of Justice. According to the 2010 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I quote: "People have a democratic right to know those actors who have influence over government decision-making. Any impact that is not fully transparent should be considered suspicious and detrimental to democracy. , says the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In its opinion on the Transparency Act, the Venice Commission concluded that it is legitimate for States to monitor in the public interest who are the main donors of civil society organisations. In matters relating to financing, publicity or transparency may be necessary in the Committee's view, as, I quote, such measures may be in the interest of national security, public security or public order. In addition, the funds received by the associations are legally subject to reporting and transparency requirements. These requirements should be proportionate to the size and scope of the association, taking into account the value of its assets and revenues. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Based on these constitutional and international expectations, the aim of the proposal is therefore, at the same time as repeal, to establish a new regulation compatible with European Union law. The government's objective was to establish an objective criterion that would exclude the risk of different treatment, and therefore the proposal provides for a presumption that it is the group of entities with a balance sheet total above a specified level that can exert a significant influence on public life and public debate. The Government has examined the regulations of other EU Member States, in particular German and Austrian regulations, in the design of the proposed legislation. The latter also provides for increased transparency requirements over specific revenue. The proposal therefore provides that all associations and foundations whose balance sheet total for the year amounts to HUF 20 million will be published annually by the State Audit Office. The powers conferred by the State Court of Auditors ensure professionalism and independence. The Court of Auditors is independent of all other organisations in its audit activities, subject only to Parliament. The strict legal requirements imposed on the Court of Auditors, such as detailed planning, full compliance with control rules, professional methods and procedures in line with ethical standards, provide sufficient guarantees for the party under control. In addition, it is the constitutional body at which the infrastructure, capacity and expertise necessary for carrying out the checks in question are available. A further guarantee of independence is that the Court of Auditors sets its own control rules. In the case of civil society organisations carrying out activities capable of influencing public life, the Court's audit shall only constitute a legality investigation under the rules in force. On the basis of the proposal, the Court will therefore publish annually a summary report on the legality of the management of the organisations concerned. Dear Parliament, In addition, the proposal also serves to reduce the administrative burden on civil society organisations, as it extends the scope of the electronic reporting obligation in line with the expectations of the age. Indeed, the association or foundation whose balance sheet total amounts to HUF 5 million may, on the basis of the bill, only make its report available to the court electronically in the future. That is, whoever has been obliged to submit the report by electronic means has to continue to do so, there is no change. However, an organisation which does not fall within the scope of the new regulation may choose to comply with its reporting obligation by electronic or postal means. The extension of this good practice reduces bureaucracy, takes into account the requirements of digitalisation, encourages environmental awareness and, not least, facilitates the submission of complete forms. The reports, regardless of how they were submitted, would be available to anyone on the website of the biró-róság, so there is no change in this respect. As regards the content of the data contained in the report: the bill does not change this, the forms must continue to contain the same data as before. We therefore do not understand the concerns of some opposition representatives and organisations that support them. In other words, yes, we understand precisely: double standards, hypocrisy and political moods. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Since we have mentioned the European Union, let us also point out that for some reason our national and international critics overlook the fact that the Union itself operates a so-called transparency register. This takes account of organisations or stakeholder groups which, as they say, can or wish to influence EU legislation and the implementation of EU policies. The register shows what interests each organisation is trying to pursue and what budget it is made of. I quote Frans Timmermans, the leader of the European Left:. Yes, NGOs must be transparent about their finances. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops! Dr. Pál Völner: The boss!]] Dear House, On the basis of the above, it can be seen that the Government is proposing a regulation in line with EU law, international law, constitutional requirements and practice that ensures the public and thus promotes the social interest in the transparent functioning of civil society organisations having a significant influence on public life and public debate. In view of this, I would like to ask you to give your support so that Hungary can comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-138	Thank you very much, Secretary Judit Varga. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-04-29-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction under Article C-78/18. The Commission v Hungary took a position on the law on the transparency of organisations supported from abroad. The Court held that the Transparency Act was not compatible with the provisions on the free movement of capital and with certain provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union relating to the right to respect for private and family life, the right to the protection of personal data and the right to freedom of association. However, in its judgment, the Court confirms that, in view of the objectives pursued by them and the means at their disposal, there is a distinction between a group of civil society organisations capable of exerting a significant influence on public life and public debate. Ensuring the transparency of the aid granted to these organisations is an overriding reason in the public interest, to which due consideration can be given in relation to the data to be disclosed. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us serves to implement the judgment on the basis of its provisions, taking into account them. The bill repeals the Transparency Act and at the same time aims at creating new rules in line with EU law. According to the proposal, for associations and foundations whose balance sheet total for the year amounts to HUF 20 million, the State Audit Office of Hungary shall publish an annual summary report on the basis of the audit plan set out by it. By doing so, the bill creates a presumption that this circle of organisations is capable of exerting a significant influence on public life and public debate. The audit is a legality investigation under the rules in force, and the State Audit Office of the State may examine the legality of the management of civil society organisations carrying out activities capable of influencing public life. The sanctions of the Law on the State Court of Auditors in relation to the audit report do not apply to this sector, given that the legislative intention, i.e. transparency, is merely implemented through disclosure. [[17.20]] In addition, the bill extends the scope of associations and foundations that are obliged by electronic means to submit the report. The association and foundation whose balance sheet total amounts to HUF 5 million will submit its report electronically by filling in the form form form form available through the NAV programme. The provision also reduces the administrative burden for data subjects by facilitating the submission of complete forms. Dear House, The objective remains to ensure the transparency of civil society organisations. The management of civil society organisations, including their funding, can be expected to be transparent. The bill provides the necessary means to do so in the light of the Court's judgment. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-29-140	Thank you very much, Congressman László Salacz. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-04-29-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! Well, there is a good thing about this bill that I shouldn't say, at least I found a paragraph in it: the 2017 LXXVI on transparency of organisations supported from abroad will be repealed. Law. Well, if nothing else, I found at least so much good in it. Okay, there's something else in there where you make exceptions, for example, you set exceptions, or when you take the subjects of the national rights law out of the law, that's a good thing. Well, then maybe I'd have finished the good stuff here. The need for change is uncontested. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, since it entered the National Assembly in 2010, has repeatedly proposed that the Association Act should be amended in relation to foundations, and that there would be a lot of things that would wish to change, to make it timely. We also made proposals on these issues, and how interesting it was that we were the opposition party in 2017, when this legislation came in, we were that... [[The congressman's phone is vibrating. Lőrinc Nacsa: György Soros!]] We were the ones who apologized to the law for the inclusion of the series of articles, so we voted in favour and abstained in the final vote. The leader of our party then told us about the problems with this law; we also explained what the good things in it are, what the changes should be made, and what the lack of them is. At the time, we also tabled about ten amendments to this proposal and how timely they are, so I would like to highlight some of the better proposals for amendments. The first and most important such proposal was to extend the scope of the law to all organisations that regularly influence Hungarian political public life, their operation, not only to organisations financed from abroad, but also to organisations financed from the domestic territory. And obviously, what the Minister said in his exposé about the importance of transparency in the case of civil society organisations, I think that we all agree with that. This was also a mistake in the 2017 law that you only offered a half-solution in terms of transparency and did not wish to raise your other leg, the organisations funded from the home country. Then another important addition was the addition of the preamble, according to which we wanted to extend the scope of the law to organisations financed from Hungary, so here I will attach it back to it, and I quote: the scope of the law should be extended to domestic political organisations, in particular the Hungarian government, ministries, political parties or their foundations, so we measured it in the same way here, because this also applies to opposition parties, it also applies to opposition party foundations, it also applies to the government, the party parties and the pro-government foundations, which, as their main activities, carry out political engagement and campaigning for parties and are capable of illegal political influence. Well, we've seen this many times, and the government has taken advantage of this opportunity, because it doesn't have to go far enough to mention the CF, to which the money originally came in the order of ten million, then in the order of 100 million, then half a billion, which came from public funding, came from public money, was the money of the Hungarian people, and what this NGO used for political purposes, for the political purposes of Fidesz and KDNP, for the political purposes of the government. And, indeed, the movement of these funds could hardly be sued, because they tried to do everything they could to prevent the management of this NGO from being transparent, to see where the funds came from, not to see the government using public funds for political purposes, in such a way as to campaign hatred against the opposition parties, because we saw on the billboard the lies and hate-promoting things that were laid out, which were financed from our money, and it is clear that they were used for political influence, and they received these money from this purpose. Then our third major amendment wanted to remove from the scope of the law organisations covered by the national rights law, and this is now taking place in this law. I also pointed out this at the beginning that Article 1 (a) (i) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) We suggested this for 2017 at the time. In addition, we had an important proposal to include organisations active in support of Hungarians across the border as an exception, so that it does not apply to them. All this, as I said, covered the 2017 legislation. After that, the amendments tabled by Jobbik were not taken into account, and since there was one foot in this law, we could not vote in favour of it then, but because we saw things going forward, so we did not vote against it, as the other opposition parties did, but in Parliament only the Jobbik Movement for Hungary abstained from this. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] We see that certain things have come through of this now, and we also see that, on the part of the European Court of Justice, the objections which the opposition almost unanimously objected to have appeared in the judgment. It is clear that the European Court of Justice found this legislation discriminatory. Unreasonably restricts fundamental rights and violates EU law. Then, in addition, it violates the principle of free movement of capital, freedom of association, respect for private and family life, the right to the protection of personal data. And another important thing is that this legislation has been found to undermine public confidence in civil society organisations. Madam Minister also spoke about how important they are, how important civil society organisations are in Hungarian society. They have a very wide range of tasks, and it is indeed a great and great thanks to civil society organisations that are constantly working to improve Hungarian society at some level. This bill, the 2017 bill, was also able to undermine the perception of civil society organisations in general, thus undermining confidence in these organisations. This infringement procedure was therefore initiated in 2017, almost a month after the publication of the law. In June 2017, if I remember correctly, the law was adopted, and in July the infringement procedure was initiated, which ended in the European Court of Justice judgment issued in the summer of 2020, which is why we are sitting here now and renegotiating this bill. I told you that there are too many good things not in this bill, and I would like to point out why I don't, what I don't like about it. [[17 .30]] On the one hand, the appointment of the State Audit Office for this task is rather odd in several respects. On the one hand, it is strange, because in itself it is contradictory that the State Audit Office controls the movement of public funds, which is what our Fundamental Law says about the State Audit Office, but here it will also check the civilian sector's money, which is logically very difficult to relate to the tasks of the State Audit Office, and obviously does not fit into it. Then I read an interesting thing in the explanatory statement, which hit me very hard when I read the last sentence of the general statement of reasons, when they explain why the State Audit Office will be appointed for this task. It states that the powers conferred by the State Court of Auditors are a guarantee of professionalism and independence. Well, what can I say when I read this, I didn't know whether to cry or laugh. Indeed, the State Audit Office was a guarantee of professionalism and independence until 2010 until the second Orbán government came to power. In the meantime, we could talk about the fact that he had such a guarantee, but I think it is cynical to write this sentence down and put it here today, when we know very well that in many cases the State Audit Office is nothing more than the political fist of Fidesz, KDNP or the Fidesz-KDNP government, which he uses to assert his political interests against the rule of law, where appropriate, to use an organisation which has no appeal against its decisions, by preparing political opponents for the government or the government's two parties, Fidesz and KDNP. This has been experienced by all opposition parties, and we do find the procedure that the State Audit Office is conducting with the opposition parties shocking. It is shocking when he finds the same facts at Fidesz, the same facts at Jobbik, and Fidesz is okay, and Jobbik is punished for almost one billion forints, he virtually takes away his full management and money for Jobbik Hungary Movement. But in the same way, he punishes the other opposition parties, he fears the sword of the Damocles hanging over the opposition parties: children, just dare to open your mouth, and then he will be struck, because you will have no money, because we will be able to take everything away from you! The government has used the State Audit Office for this in recent years, and unfortunately it is outrageous that the State Audit Office will be given tasks today, without question, because a two-thirds majority will accept this bill, that it will now be possible to apply to foundations and associations the retortions which you have been able to apply only to political parties. So we find it outrageous what the Government is using the State Audit Office for and what the State Audit Office is letting this work. By the way, professionally, this legislation says that an annual income of HUF 20 million, after balance sheet total, will be covered by the law for the association and foundation. I think that this is in a bit of a contradiction with the title of the bill, that civil society organisations, when we talk about it, are involved in activities that can influence public life. The influence of public life doesn't always depend on income. Obviously, the forint, the forint, the quantity, but it will not depend on whether it affects public life or even intends to influence political public life in any way. The basis on which the State Audit Office is examining this has already been discussed, since it is not about revenue of state origin, and it is indeed only about political retaliation that the appointment of the State Court of Auditors is an opportunity. Another important problem is that we have stressed several times here in Parliament, and that there is no possibility of judicial review against the decisions of the State Audit Office. What we see is that we are talking about an organisation that is supposed to be politically influenced and controlled, and there is no room for judicial review, a mockery of the rule of law. This means that if there are negative findings against a civil society organisation, it will not be possible for this organisation to stand up in court for its own right, but to prove that it has not performed any activities that would have unduly affected Hungarian public life. This can be established by the State Audit Office, but there will be no appeal against it, no appeal against it. I think that this is also fundamentally incompatible with the Hungarian Basic Law, because the Hungarian Fundamental Law provides for the possibility of redress against all decisions, so there should also be an appeal against the decision of the State Audit Office, and indeed this law, this proposal would have the other foot if it also gave it the opportunity to appeal against the decision of the State Audit Office or not. Another important aspect is that the SAO's examination will be very important for each association, and it will require prepared professionals, and time, where there is often no permanent employee. My time is up, thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-142	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2021-04-29-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thought Csaba Gyüre would be on the side of a few dozen NGOs who said they were civil organisations instead of 61,000 NGOs, but I didn't think it was so vehement. Because I expected that the other left-wing representatives would think on the side of the horseshoe that he was a few dozen, by the way, extremely small in terms of his social embeddedness, but with his influence, media sensitivity and financial potential, they came here today to speak in the interest of a few dozen NGOs, while there are, by the way, 61-62 thousand CSOs registered in Hungary, from the folk song circle through traditional associations, through the sports associations, through religious organizations, through a Scout Federation, and through many NGOs who do value-creating, value-bearing, community-organizing work in Hungary. The thing is, you come here and a couple of dozen political activist organizations speak for a couple of dozen fundamentalist human rights organizations. While we're saying that there should be transparency, you're saying that you should let them operate as they want, because you're putting these organizations on a kind of pedestal, and they believe everything. Because they said they were working transparently, they must be working transparently. Ladies and gentlemen, These organisations have almost failed to comply with the law that came into force in 2017. They have not registered as foreign-funded civil society organisations, even though everyone knows that they are foreign-funded civil society organisations. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that Csaba Gyüre does not know, or does not know correctly, that the State Audit Office has so far been able to check organisations who have received public funds and received public funds. You have been able to check, and you have always had the authority to bring here, by the way, the affairs of organisations you call pro-government; what you bring up here is because you know these, because these contracts are transparent, obvious, public. The reason you can bring such political matters here is because supporting ministries, supporting state firms publish those contracts, those grant contracts [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why they're supporting these organizations. As, by the way, a candidate from the State, such as the National Cooperation Fund, must also indicate, honourable Member, the support. I understand why this great outrage about the State Audit Office, which is the body under the Parliament, honourable Member, Parliament, we are jointly deciding on the powers of the State Audit Office, the powers of the State Audit Office. The fact is, honourable Member, that the reason why you are attacking this law is because Jobbik is not working transparently, is the Minister's presentation, the State Audit Office, too, because on several occasions it has been proven that Jobbik is not managing transparently. I understand that it pains you, as a member of the board, to listen to the fact that Jobbik cheated its own members with its management, that hundreds of millions of forints of donations were not publicized, where it came from, and the State Audit Office revealed irregularities in Jobbik's management. [[17.40]] And obviously what hurts you most is not the fact that the State Audit Office has, by the way, made public that you don't function legally in a lot of things and didn't comply with the law, but the most painful thing for you is that you've been confronted that your own membership, which has obviously fallen since then, has been defrauded by your own membership. These are the findings of the State Audit Office. Honourable Congressman, I don't know, do you remember, atlatszo.hu, which is not really a pro-government portal, has created a browsable list of contracts, each party's party foundation has been awarded all the contracts that those party foundations have concluded. Guess, Congressman, who was the only party who didn't respond to their request and the party foundation didn't send their contracts! Was it the Fidesz? No. Was it KDNP? No. Maybe it was the MSZP? Even DK sent him in, and then there's the merger with Altus... Oh, boy, let's not talk about it. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Why are you lying?!]] Jobbik was the organization, the party, honourable Member, who did not send the contracts of his party foundation to the Transparent so that it would not be possible to browse, to see what you are spending. The fact is, honourable Member, that more and more inaccessible cases have come to the surface of farming from the House of Jobbik for years, and therefore you are attacking any transparency legislation that concerns civil society organisations, concerns the parties, and which, by the way, concerns the powers of the State Audit Office. We can also remember your famous poster doggy with Lajos Simicska. It was also published later, and it was also found to be illegal. Honourable Congressman, The thing is, I understand that you, especially your party, do not believe in you, but your party also has a problem with the issue of transparency in itself, and is therefore coming here and speaking in favour of the Soros-NGOs, so that the Soros-NGOs do not have to show how and from what they farm, who and how they finance them; how they want to do the influence of public life without ever weighing themselves in a political arena, and at any point in the political race. And we know for a fact that they are engaged in political activity. For example, statements from one of the campaign faces of the Helsinki Committee are made that the government must be overthrown. You don't think it's an echte political activity? You guys say things like that week after week about who cancels, who leaves, who loses an election. You are opposition representatives, it is very right that you do this, that is what you do. They're so good at fighting it, they'll fight it for many years. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that these organisations want to use it for political influence, without social embeddedness, to use their extensive network, their financial strength, their media sensitivity, and this is beneficial for you. Rather than helping your political activities, you are guided by the activities of these organisations. By the way, what hurts you is that these organisations need to operate transparently. I think that these organisations have been at the forefront of Hungary's discrediting campaign on the international stage since 2017. As soon as they had a foreign-funded organization, they immediately picked up their phone books, dialed international phone numbers, inciting newspapers and organisations of their various circles of knowledge to attack Hungary. With your help, they were campaigning against Hungary in connection with this law, as well as with numerous decisions. I think it is a pleasure that in Hungary the amount that civil society organisations receive from different funds is HUF 370 billion, which was previously HUF 114 billion in 2010. It is a joy that the amount that civil society organisations receive has increased more than threefold, for civilians who are doing value-making community-organizing work on the ground, in the interests of local communities. From folklore circles through sports associations, traditionalists, health, social, religious, nature-going and various civil society organisations we are talking about 61,000 civil society organisations. The envelope for the National Cooperation Fund is also constantly increasing. This year it's 7.7 billion forints. This is a significant increase, which can help to develop and build civil life and community life in Hungary. I think we need to move on. It is pleased that the envelope for the National Cooperation Fund has increased every year in recent years. We maintain our position that real, existing and actual NGOs active for Hungarian people in Hungary can operate freely, from private donations, central budget subsidies, and from tender sources, but we expect the same transparency from the fake civil political action groups funded by foreign speculators without real social embeddedness as everyone else. The amount of HUF 20 million, honourable Member, you have also mentioned this, which concerns about 4,000 civil society organisations out of about 61,000 civil society organisations. The bill mentions religious, ethnic and sports associations as an exception, I think. And the fact is, honourable Member, that these civil society organisations with a balance sheet of more than HUF 20 million will do either the public benefit report if they are of public use or are required to report to the court every year, which I believe the State Audit Office will not ask for more than that. You don't have to talk about full-time employees. By the way, civil society organisations operating from 20-30-40-50-100 million forints are usually employed, honourable Member, either in part-time or in full-time jobs. I think that the added value of a civil society organization comes from a lot of volunteering, and that's what I encourage and encourage everyone. But they do tend to be part-time or full-time employees. Every year, their accountant or co-worker does that report, does the public benefit report. As the Minister said, this does not impose any additional burden, and in fact, since people over HUF 5 million simply fall into it, those over 20 million will have to submit their reports digitally to the court. I think that it is precisely transparency that is being strengthened by these provisions. We thought that law would hold up. The Court of Justice of the European Union did not think so. In Hungary, we will execute the judgments of the court, so, of course, this bill is here before us, we must discuss it, but I am asking you to take the side of transparency, as we do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-144	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-04-29-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, before that accusation is made, I will make my speech on behalf of more than 60,000 Hungarian NGOs, and in their best interest. The aim of the proposal is to withdraw the law on the stigmatisation of Hungarian civil society organisations on a political basis and to eliminate the illegal situation that has arisen as a result. The Parliament is currently discussing or discussing two proposals that were needed yesterday because the Government of Hungary again violated the law of the European Union because of its own political interests. This is one of the two proposals that we are discussing at the moment, and the other was the law that we discussed yesterday, which was specifically intended to drive the CEU away. This proposal, although important for the execution of the Judgement's judgment, is also quite late. The court decision was made last summer. It was almost a year before the government found a form that would serve its political goals, but also be in line with EU law. The MSZP and the Dialogue submitted a bill to Parliament last summer, in which the stigmatizing law would have been repealed, in the weeks after the Court's decision was taken. This proposal was also included in the series in October, but has not been discussed since then, despite the fact that we attached an urgent request to our proposal at the time. However, the Parliament did not consider the settlement of the case important at that time. It is worth considering exactly why the law that stigmatize civilians was illegal. The Court of Justice of the Union has classified unlawfulness into six categories, according to which the law discriminates against and restricts civil society organisations falling within its scope, creates a climate of distrust vis-à-vis associations and foundations, contrary to the principle of free movement of capital, which is one of the four freedoms of the European Union, and then restricts the right of association, restricts the right to respect for private and family life, and also limits the right to the protection of personal data. However, the Court's decision also pointed out that, in itself, it is not contrary to EU law that civil society organisations which can really have a significant influence on public life and public debate must, of course, comply with increased transparency rules. [[17.50]] However, the law, in a manner which can be seen from the decision of the court, was not intended for that purpose. It is also important to stress that the Government of Hungary failed to prove why the law that stigmatized civilians was necessary. It failed to demonstrate that this would indeed serve any legitimate purpose. The goals expressed by the Government of Hungary were too general, and so they could not justify the steps taken to achieve the objectives in the specific case. This means that, apart from political self-consciousness, they were essentially unable to defend their own position for any real reason. In this way, we can reasonably say that it would be more difficult to find a rule that your stigmatizing civil law would not violate as it stood against. These stigmatizing rules are now being repealed, but they do not remedy the damage caused by this law. It does not undo the four years of accusations, it does not dissipate the hatred that you created against these civil society organisations for purely political gain. This is why we need to examine exactly what is included in the proposal to replace the provisions of the stigmatized civil society law so far. The proposal creates the right of the State Audit Office to check civil society organisations with a balance sheet total of 20 million in terms of legality. So the question is not that the importance of transparency is being referred to by Minister Timmermans, and the question here is that when the State Audit Office investigates, it will find no problem with someone; as it has been since you have, it has been very often, and since it has essentially made the State Audit Office a servant's daughter of this party-state system. However, this new provision does not have a legally sound function. The prosecution has already had the opportunity, and we all know that it has had the opportunity to exercise the right of legal oversight over civil society organisations, which in principle fully ensured their legal function. It is also against the law, since Article 43 of the Treaty limits the powers of the State Audit Office to control the implementation of the central budget, the use of resources from public finances and the management of national assets. The Fundamental Law lacks the provision of the former Constitution that the State Audit Office discharges other tasks assigned to it by the Law. In addition, it practically puts civil society organisations within its scope in the same category as the parties, which is completely contrary to the principles of multi-party political settlement. In fact, the law is not intended to strengthen judicial supervision, but this proposal has other reasons than I have already said: it has political reasons now. The audit practice of the State Audit Office does not always meet the requirements of impartiality. The SAO is always looking into politically sensitive matters and always making positive statements to the government. When it comes to the management of the governing parties, its control does not fall within the control plan when it is necessary. Prior to the elections in 2018, the management of the governing parties was not examined by the State Audit Office. Well, how can that be? Well, obviously it's not a coincidence. So it must be very clear that there is a difference between what is the function of the State Audit Office in a democracy and what is in an authoritarian system. In the latter, in which we live today, unfortunately in Hungary, the State Audit Office is also used to discredit and destroy political opponents. This is why we have reason to fear that the proposal does not really want to create a judicial control power, because it has existed so far, but the government wants to use the State Audit Office to stigmatise and disable civil society organisations. And as Mr Gyüre, my fellow Member, mentioned earlier, the solution is no accident either, since there is no domestic remedy against the SAO's decision. This bill therefore clearly demonstrates that the government takes the values of the European Union into account only formally. If the government violates EU law and the European Court of Justice has just stated that it does not retire, but simply seeks a different solution, which is nominally consistent with democratic values, if this sentence or the word "democracy" still means something to you, but does not change their original political intentions. So the government changes its assets, but not its political goals. I therefore believe that judicial control is not enough; it is necessary to replace the current arrangement with the institutional system of a new democratic republic. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I now give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2021-04-29-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, there is a bill before this House that serves the purpose of what the government has done wrong in the past, the Orbán government in the last 11 years, we are now correcting it, because it has finally been proven to the government that it is wrong, that it is harmful, that it is not legal. This was the law on disability pensions that we voted on yesterday, but this has been the case in recent months with a number of legislative proposals that the government has been forced to put forward here, because it turned out that what they originally thought was in vain was being claimed by professionals, despite those who were affected by this, that it was not good, that it was wrong, that it was not achieving its purpose, that it was harmful, that the government did not accept it, but adopted the law; and now it turns out that it needs to be improved. We're in the function of such a bug-fixing parliament, here we are again, doing this again. If I wanted to, of course, I could look at this as how good it is, and then we'll correct something. It's just that one of the bad things is going to get us into another bad thing. What happened, what was this year 2017 and the spring when this law was adopted by this House four years ago? For some reason, the government came up with the idea that in the same year, foreign-funded NGOs would be the bogeyman. Either you believe this, or you've created this reality for your supporters, that everything is wrong in this country, which is bad, of course, it's very little, because you govern very well, because somewhere there, perhaps in New York, George Soros sits and supports and directs civil society organisations and achieves the country in his own image. I'm guessing that's your afternoon job, and in the morning, you think you're gonna let in refugees. Therefore, let us not be mistaken that when this law came into being, it was the basis and omega of the government campaign against civilians, the government campaign against the government. Part of this was that you created this law of 2017 purely out of political will, in order to make civil society organisations that you do not like impossible, preferably banned. It was about the fact that, at an annual income above a certain threshold, when it came from abroad, these organisations had to register themselves, register themselves, it had to be indicated everywhere that he was a supported organisation from abroad, and if he did not do so or in any way did not do so, then, at the very end, this organisation could be banned. You called it a Transparency Act, but of course it didn't in any way become transparent, nothing, it was in itself only a proposal for their political interests. I'm just saying one little thing, and we've forgotten how good it was for me to read again, too, that the amount above which the civil society organisation had come into contact with the aid was defined as an indicator of the law on the financing of terrorism, a number of which was set in this law, that it was twice the threshold. [[18.00]] Even here, they referred to it in a very vile way that in some way these civil society organisations were suspicious, accused of terrorism, suspected that something was wrong here. What happened then was that everyone in this country who had sane sense was not you, that this law was illegal, that it would fail, it would bleed out of a thousand wounds. What happened? After hearing you, the European Commission has listened to the Hungarian Government's arguments and asked the government to withdraw this, and we have to undo it. The Hungarian government did not undo it, it was accepted, so he turned to the European Court of Justice. The European Court of Justice has condemned Hungary at every point that has arisen as a problem in relation to this law. It's so rare, but let's record that your government has managed to achieve this. I list these points. The main accusation was that this provision violates the principle of free movement of capital. Indeed, the Court has held that the combined registration, notification, publication and sanctions violate the restriction on the free movement of capital, because they make an unjustified distinction and cannot be explained by the government, if a civil society organisation is supported or supported from here, it supports or supports it. It cannot exist in domestic or cross-border movements of capital; you have not been able to provide any arguments that would require any discrimination. Then the right to respect for privacy and family life was also violated by this law, because the obligation to notify and publish by law violated that right. That's what the Court of Justice ruled. In close connection with this, he also violated the right to the protection of personal data, as stated, because this law, which you so fortunately accepted between the walls of this House, required that personal data be made available, in such a way that it did not meet the appropriate requirements that exist in the Union, would have been transferred in the framework of inappropriate data processing. Finally, I think that this is the biggest shame when it comes to civil organisation law and its trial before a court, and the conflict with the right to freedom of association has also been declared by the Court of Justice, namely that this law, which you lied to as transparency, limits this right to freedom of association, because it makes it significantly difficult to act and operate by associations falling within its scope. That's what happened, ladies and gentlemen. Last June, if I remember correctly, the European Court of Justice decided that, of course, the government had no choice but to bring this proposal here at the last minute, of course. As my colleague Csaba Gyüre said, this is the last one, I think, 9. §2 of the most eligible or eligible, is that, well, then, this 2017 law is abolished as it is. Great, very good. But before that, there are eight other paragraphs, and that creates another problem, in a size similar to that which you are now removing. What am I talking about? You have said, Madam Secretary, and my fellow members of the Government, that this is necessary because in some way the operation of certain civil society organisations is not transparent, transparent. That's what you can say, but that's just not true. Anyone who knows a little bit about civil society organisations, and I think you are like that, some of the 61,000 are certainly familiar with what civil society organisations have today, from annual accounts to disclosure to public obligations, a lot of regulations, declarations and reports are still in place for civil society organisations that are accessible, readable, visible and make this world transparent. In addition, if you go up to the websites of some civil society organisations, only at any rate, who you like to disguise, that for some reason those civil society organisations are somehow connected to George Soros within a spider web, if you go up to the websites of these organisations, you will see that they provide even more data, there is even more management and support data on their website. [[Nacha Lawrence is wagging his head.]] Yes, Congressman Nacsa, no matter how much he shakes his head, that's the reality. So there's no problem you're trying to raise, explaining the existence of this law. There's no lack of transparency, there's no mess, there's no background problem that requires a law on this. But if there is any doubt about it, there is an appropriate procedure, regulation, authority to look at civil society organisations, examine and deal with possible problems of civil society organisations. So there's no need for these other eight paragraphs, just the ninth. But what does this paragraph do? What do you suggest? They are installing a task to the State Audit Office to examine organisations with an annual balance sheet total of HUF 20 million, draw up a separate report and look at their nails. The problem is that the State Audit Office in a completely ideal country and this is not Hungary, it would not perform such a task in a completely classic democracy, only because Commissioner knows it, I have now brought here the Constitution of the State Court of Auditors, there is no mention of what is being transferred to him here in the law. The point is that the task of controlling the responsible management of public funds and national assets is to use this sentence, immediately under Article 1 (1). §2 of its articles of association. In most cases, there is neither public money nor national property. Let me be a little cynical here, because you're taking sports organisations out of this circle, for example. Well, there's a lot of public money in sports organizations through the lake. That, no, they're taking it out of the way, that's exactly how it doesn't belong, but I'm gonna keep going. The SAO is not only not responsible for this or does not belong to it because of the articles of association, but because the logic of the system is such that if we manage with public money, but only if there is public money, then the SAO controls it, in all other cases the SAO has no business there. But you just put this in here. Madam Secretary, are you saying that the SAO's independence is the guarantee that this will work well? How can such a sentence be said here, within the walls of this House now? We're talking about the SAO, which, for a long time, I can tell you, the Democratic Coalition has a fight with the SAO, and we can't sue it back in court, let's say, a copy of the materials we gave him, which, for example, would be necessary for us again because of the fire that consumes the DK center? And the SAO says he won't give us this and we have to sue? Or is this the SAO that can make any statement in its report and that there is no remedy or possibility against it? There will be nothing that this civil society organisation or anyone else can do if the SAO describes in any report or summary what type of problem it has with that civil society organisation. You can't sue the SAO for these reports. In addition to and before me, Members spoke about compliance with an SAO, an SAO inspection, a reply to SAO questions and the submission of documents are indeed an administrative burden. Oh, so the CSOs are gonna figure this out somehow? I mean, you're assuming that there's a lot of money and human resources out there who'll do that. Of course, it's the only way to strangle these organizations, and you're obviously preparing for that. To make these organisations impossible with administrative burden and administrative pressure. It's exactly the same purpose you had four years ago, but you've changed your methods, and you've just put forward another proposal here. Small compared to this, but there is a sign in this that it is actually good for civil society organisations, or that civil society organisations should be happy, because they are actually on the road to purification. I would be very interested to know if this draft has been agreed with any civil society organisation, by the way. And obviously, I am not talking about the CF, if you will, Minister, but let us say that there are cooperation between civil society organisations, there are umbrella organisations that represent several civil society organisations. I'd be terribly interested to know what they think about this, how they felt about it. As a conclusion, I would therefore like to summarize this bill by saying that the government ran into the wall in a predictable way, yet head-on in 2017, and for purely political reasons, it did this law and suffered a total defeat at the European Court of Justice. Now they're trying to handle this total defeat with another solution. [[18.10]] They have chosen a solution to enter the same river again, surprisingly, they will do the same thing again, they have re-created a law that is capable of regulating civil society organisations, which extends the possibilities of the government to control NGOs they do not like. Here, let me put a sentence to the conclusion that the strangeness behind it is the philosophical thought that Fidesz thinks of a world independent of it or far from it. He believes that civil society organisations are either close to him or can be controlled by him or are hostile, and it is certain that they are connected to the opposition or its parties. But that's not true. In fact, civil society, the essence of civil society itself, is that neither one, nor the other, is organised on one matter, and the people who set up and operate the civil society organization are working on one case. It doesn't suit you, your precious world, it doesn't have that in it. The fact that they are value-creating civilians says, Minister, that you are currently deciding who those value-creating civilians are. Those who are loyal to you are those who are loyal to the government. This law will be against those who refuse to enter into it, and we therefore reject this proposal in its entirety.
u2021-04-29-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2021-04-29-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Madam Secretary! For the longest time, a law adopted by a fidesz parliamentary majority does not stand the test of legality before the European Court of Justice. In these cases, it is also typical that the Hungarian Government is unable to accept a clear judgment, and instead of completely repealing the laws which violate the declared international treaty, it tries to make new proposals to achieve its original goals. This is also the case with the Transparency Act, which is the European Court of Justice C-78/18. According to the judgment in Case No 7, 8 and 12 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is clearly in breach of the obligations laid down in Articles 7, 8 and 12 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Once it has become clear that the stigmatisation of NGOs and their supporters on the basis of their support from foreign persons is considered to constitute a ban on associations, the government refuses to acknowledge that it can no longer put pressure on the civil society sphere that has not been under its political control, but instead comes up with new ideas and proposes legislation on civil society organisations that are able to influence public life. In the beginning, the attitude of the government is reversed, since one of the most important tasks of the civil sphere is that public life is precisely influenced to represent and represent the various interests and values present in society. The influence of public life on the part of civil society organisations is not a shift that must be controlled by the careful, monitoring state apparatus, but one of their main tasks. The distinction between organisations on the basis of their ability to influence public life seems reasonable only on the basis of the logic of the government seeking total control, which wants to control public life in its entirety. Moreover, linking this ability to the size of an organization's balance sheet is again completely absurd. And I'd like to ask Madam Secretary why 20 million, why not 15, why not 30, why not 50 million? And I'm gonna ask you what's gonna happen next. Will people also be classified by their assets or qualifications as being able to influence public life, and if so, will they be listed and examined by the State Audit Office? Ladies and gentlemen, What still works in Hungary today is due precisely to the dedicated civilians and the conscientious Hungarian people who pursue their profession and profession. The government that knows only the logic of power, which could be destroyed, has already destroyed, and we are now at the point of saying that the professionally functioning systems, the civil sphere, are also red in their eyes. For reasons of power, due to the contrast of entities with a light-years better performance than their own policy activities, the government wants to completely subdue the civil sphere. And then allow me to say three things here, first of all, a little summary of how we see the end of this law. In practice, the underlying objective under the Transparency Act is now being pursued, i.e. to make civil society organisations feel that the government is watching them for how much support they receive without narrowing down the scope of observation to organisations receiving subsidies from abroad. The proposal remains capable of putting political pressure on a strong and independent civil sector. The fight against possible malicious foreign influence is not for the State Audit Office, but for the services assigned to it. I was surprised when Congressman Nacsa spoke because he didn't even know what we were going to say. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I got him. Lottery all of them. Deterioration in opposition benches.]] But you've already predicted how the left side feels about that. The question of this law must also be asked, and what we are also very curious about is the capacity to build at the State Audit Office and how much it will cost. You think this is gonna be worth it? Madam Minister, instead of such laws and instead of such restrictive proposals, I think that it would be much more useful if a briefing was presented to the Parliament and perhaps proposals were made on the basis of how the civil society sector is now and how civil society organisations operate in Hungary. In this connection, I would like to tell you that a lot of civil society organisations are dying. You've created your own civil society organisations, and the others are barely getting anything. I know the environmental sphere, I think I know it quite well, there was a time when the Hungarian environment- and nature-protection civil society could still function very, very well, it was able to take on a lot of public tasks from the government, and it will not be possible to do so. Perhaps in your first period, I can say positively, when Béla Turi-Kovács was the Minister of the Environment, at that time there was even a Ministry, then they received very, very serious support for taking on state tasks. About a billion forints were allocated to carry out these tasks among civil society organisations, now it is about 70-80 million forints. Perhaps you can see from this how much it has been reduced and how seriously civil society organisations are not taken seriously today, even though civil society organisations can take on very serious public tasks. Therefore, the Green Party of LMP Hungary will do everything in its power to allow us to live in a normal country after 2022, where respect will surround civil society organisations rather than listing. The LMP cannot support this proposal either. Thank you.
u2021-04-29-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the ethnic advocate Giricz Vera Ruszin, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor. [[18.20]]
u2021-04-29-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Честованый пан Предс Честован... парламентар... Честована пан Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Secretary of State, T/15991. At its meeting on 26 April 2021, the Committee of the Committee on the Transparency of Civil Society Organisations and the Amendment to Certain Related Laws is the Committee on the Rules of the House at its meeting on 26 April 2021. Paragraph 5 of this Article provides the basis for a single opinion, which is set out below. The basic purpose of the proposal before Parliament is to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union No C78/18. According to our committee, the draft law repeals the 2017 LXXVI on transparency of organisations supported from abroad. It annuls the established infringement, according to which the legislation in Hungary is contrary to the provisions on the free movement of capital, Articles 7, 8 and 12 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, such as the right to respect for private and family life, the right to the protection of personal data and the right to freedom of association. The provisions of the proposal are also based on the judgment. The Court held that it is justified in the public interest to ensure the transparency of aid granted to organisations which have a significant influence on public life and public debate. It is important to note that, for entities subject to the legislation, on the one hand, it is linked to the size of the balance sheet total to the condition of competence to influence public life and, on the other hand, it must be a meaningful civil society organisation. Our Commission welcomes the fact that, like the existing legislation on this subject, this law still does not cover national minority organisations, associations or foundations. We also support the exemption of religious communities and sports associations from regulation. In addition to stressing all this, we would like to note the following in relation to the regulation of the bill concerning the nationalities that are native to Hungary. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law No. 2 Paragraphs 14, 15 and 16 of Article 14 clarify the organisation of which the bill provides for exemption from the provisions. Thus, the nationality organisation is an association included in the court register of civil society organisations, with the exception of the party and the trade union, whose statutory function, fixed for at least three years before the year of the minority self-government election, is to represent the nationality specifically designated by law. In the absence of these associations, it would not be possible to establish minority self-governments because the electoral rules make it clear that only a minority organisation can make a candidate or list in the election. In the electoral process, only organisations related to the particular nationality compete for the trust of the registered members of the community. Their activities have no influence on other social groups. It is important that, on the basis of this definition, the minority association is separated from other organisations registered in Hungary. In its establishment and operation, the provision of interest protection and cultural autonomy related to a particular nationality and the pursuit of related activities are clear and exclusive. The national minority foundation is a foundation for the protection and representation of the interests of the national minority according to its statutes, which is directly linked to the cultural autonomy of nationality. As a new regulatory element, the national minority foundation has been incorporated into the law on the rights of nationalities, which can be separated from other foundations in relation to its objectives, its functioning and its core activities. Overall, the forms of organisation of recognised nationality interests and cultural autonomy are rightly excluded from the scope of the draft law. Their public activities can be interpreted primarily within the 13 nationalities. They shall perform their duties primarily with the assistance of persons carrying out voluntary activities in the public interest. Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports T/15991. a draft law submitted to Parliament and proposed it to be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуву за призур. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-29-152	Thank you very much for Mrs Giricz Vera's speech. Dear Parliament, I would like to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that he wants to live in the House Rule 36. § 14 of the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Madam Secretary, Mr. Secretary. Dear Speaker Woman, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I asked for the general discussion of the bill on the transparency of civil society organisations engaged in activities capable of influencing public life and the amendment of certain related laws, since the proposal specifically requires the State Audit Office to publish an annual summary report on the associations and foundations covered by it. In this connection, I think it is important to note that the Parliament receives all the necessary relevant information from the State Audit Office for information and not the intention of the debate; so I do not take up the blame for the comments received by the SAO on other work and any incorrect claims. The Court of Auditors has carried out audits in civil society organisations for years. Over the past few years, we have carried out evaluations of a number of associations and foundations that have received support from the central budget and are performing public tasks. In the case of civil society organisations, the audits could cover the entire management activity, not only the use of budgetary support, as required by the State Court of Auditors Act. In addition, I would also like to stress that the mandate of the Court of Auditors was not limited to the control of public funds and national assets, since the SAO's task is to control all parties and party foundations, whether they receive budgetary support or not. Accordingly, all parties registered in Hungary are currently under control. This is also the task of the Court of Auditors to monitor the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, which is specifically required by the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. The area defined by the bill is therefore not alien to the Court's activities. [[18.30]] Dear House, Allow me to stress in particular that respect for the law always determines the work of the Court of Auditors. Well, the bill is 6. It is important to stress that the register of civil society organisations is currently not perfect, particularly as regards the accounts under the Accounting Act. Just last month, we published an analysis of the publication and deposit of the accounts, in which we found that in the current legislative environment there was no organisation in Hungary that would carry out a review of the content of the accounting records published and deposited by civil society organisations immediately and in all cases immediately after publication and deposit. The responsibility of the body managing the public register is limited to the fact that, under the current legal provisions, the report sent to it and published by it should be the report of that organisation in an electronic scheme form submitted in an otherwise convenient structure and published without change. The analysis shows that the public credibility of the register does not guarantee the credibility and reliability of the accounts. The reports in the public-credit registers are not public-credited, but should be credible. From a public financial point of view, we need a public-credit register with a true and reliable accounting report. The formal and formal arrangements to ensure the authenticity of the accounting statements are not the same as the actual content, while the existence of real content is the legal reliability of the accounting statements. The provision of credibility supplies can also help to carry out the Court's audit. In recent years, the Court has implemented technological and methodological developments based on digitalisation, which have significantly increased its audit capability, thus increasing the number of organisations audited each year by ten times more. At the beginning of this year, the Court completed the simultaneous evaluation of all local and regional authorities and all municipal offices in Hungary, only this system-level audit concerned nearly 4,500 controlled organisations. Regardless of this audit, the Court of Auditors also audited 1534 organisations in 2020 and even started or planned an additional 4,500 organisations this year. As a result of this, the Court of Auditors' improvements in its effectiveness and in response to the pandemic crisis, in order to avoid face-to-face encounters, in order to maintain the technical condition for verification in the country, in the event of its adoption, it is able to ensure that the proposed legislation is implemented, thereby contributing to the implementation of the constitutional principles of transparency, such as the maintenance of the rule-state framework, the practice of compliance, if necessary, the promotion of compliance, and not enforcement, as otherwise required by the draft legislation, since it seeks to ensure the correction of any necessary conduct by the public. In addition to this ability, we see the need and the need for this legislation, so let me say that in another area, which is partly connected, I will take this opportunity to take this opportunity, once this issue is on the table, it has come before the House. Dear House, I should mention here that the Court of Auditors is in its audit plan, and there are currently some public bodies that you have set up in recent decades as civil society organisations and specialised civil society organisations. The role of public bodies is of particular importance in the professional areas in which they operate, they perform public tasks, in many cases they exercise professional and ethical supervision over their members. It is legitimate to expect that the financial resources provided for the performance of the public service mission, which are ordered by the law, and the membership fees paid by compulsory membership, will be treated in a transparent and accountable manner. The evaluation, proper use and transparency of resources for the provision of tasks is a social requirement, to which the Court of Auditors intends to contribute by monitoring the basic operational and economic conditions. Last year, the Court of Auditors pointed out that the regulatory and financial shortcomings identified in previous years also required a review of the overall legislative environment for the functioning of public bodies. The experience of our current monitoring confirms this. During my speech on this time frame, I can say that some public bodies do not wish to submit to the parliamentary control function of the Parliament, despite the public duty granted and entrusted to them by the State, which is ultimately tax-related. We will soon inform the Parliament about this in detail, and it is obviously your decision accordingly that this is indeed the intention to clarify the legal framework in this area as well. Finally, let me express my hope that the audit activity of the State Court of Auditors as the main financial and economic control body of Parliament on the basis of the bill we are discussing will also make a significant contribution to the implementation of the constitutional principles of transparency in civil society organisations, which can only be strengthened by the power of the public, as stated in the draft law, and this can strengthen the social confidence that they all have mentioned in their organisation and their activities. That is why I trust that, if we are entrusted with this under the law, we can contribute to the strengthening of the operational regularity of these organisations, the strengthening of social confidence, which not only targets public and municipal resources, but can also encourage citizens and entrepreneurs to become even more committed. In this context, I am confident that the Court of Auditors will also be able to bring added value to the control of this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-154	Thank you very much, President László Domokos. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute comments and speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Christian Democratic People's Party... [[Nacsa Lawrence: No, no, no, no! Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes. Defiance.]] Instead of Jobbik, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: God forbid!]] Next up is KDNP. Here you go, Congressman Gyure.
u2021-04-29-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It was Lőrinc Nacsa's speech that made me press a button. Well, yes, we have already learned the tactics of my fellow Member Nacsa: what the government side is doing is a very quick accusation against the opposition. This tactic, it's what you always do, but thank you very much for drawing attention to what you're writing at the Instant. Indeed, I have seen the Instant, and what did I really find? Billions of government information campaigns, hiding where public money goes, the whole government. But MVM is hiding how the CÖF was supported by HUF 430 million, refusing to issue, and should be sued for these amounts. Thank you very much for pointing out, Mr. Nacha, what you are doing on a series of occasions. Well, if anyone here is hiding where the public funds are going, they're you, you're the only people who are hurting with transparency. Believe me, Mr. Nacha, transparency doesn't hurt me at all, and I hope I've reassured you. You are the only ones to be constantly sued because you simply refuse to publish it, and I do say: Jobbik is a transparent farmer, has managed transparently in the past, and will continue in the future, even if you try to accuse us of other things. [[18.40]] And I'd like to say one more thing. Mr Nacsa expressed his regret that Jobbik's membership has fallen sharply in recent times. What I'm saying is that as many new members check into Jobbik in a month, you'd be very happy to have half of them logged into KDNP in two years. But you guys would be doing a happy dance even if we could talk about it at all. So I'm asking you not to deal with Jobbik's membership. And one more thing I'd like to make sure you're not able to sleep at night. It doesn't hurt me if György Soros' alleged organizations become transparent. This doesn't hurt me at all. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-156	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor in two minutes.
u2021-04-29-157	Thank you. That is now a half-promotional comment, honourable Member. Well, if it doesn't hurt you, then vote for this bill, because that's exactly what it helps you to be transparent about George Soros' organizations. If it doesn't hurt you, there's only one more step to support you. So now he's in a neutral position, and it's just a little further from here, and he can support this bill. I would also like to thank the President for his comments on the law, as it has also been mentioned here on left-wing issues that the SAO will have the capacity to do so and how it will be able to carry out this control. I think we got the answers to that. When I pressed the two-minute button, I wanted to speak in order to ask Congresswoman Schmuck and Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk not to classify Hungary in such a way that it is not a normal country or an ideal country. For me, Hungary is the most ideal, normal, beautiful and best country. I think that this is how we should talk in the Hungarian Parliament, that this is the foundation, that we consider Hungary to be the most normal, ideal, most beautiful, best country, the best people live here and the best people build Hungary. So I'm just asking you not to sink into the depths of Gyurcsány, where Hungary is rated with insufferable markers. At least let's leave that out of the debate. Anything can be said, but that Hungary is not a normal country, I would like to ask on behalf of the entire Hungarian nation, because Hungary is the most normal country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-158	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. For two minutes, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi will have the floor.
u2021-04-29-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nacha took me to press two minutes. I'd like to say very briefly, we're always charged with being serialists, and we're Soros' tenants. I have to tell you, Soros doesn't support the opposition. In fact, I can assure you, the MSZP is expressly rejected. György Soros in 1997 in the MSZP made it clear to others that you should now hand over your seats to the new modern Fidesz. What if George Soros rejects us? By the way, already in 2008, he took action against the country that was very bad for the government at the time. So I'm sure he doesn't support us, believe me, he doesn't like us very much. But I would like to draw attention to something else. The question of sovereignty is that Soros intervenes in Hungary's internal affairs. By the way, you intervene in, say, Slovenia's affairs when the right-wing government of Janša is actively supported and the opposition there is even more active in protesting against it. So if you attack someone by interfering with the internal affairs of other countries, you will do the same. Finally, what really exposes their political campaign on Soros is that before 2015, you and Soros were interestingly fine in the world. I couldn't find a trace. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members, if anyone applies. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2021-04-29-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the SAO, He's gone. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am very pleased that I have also heard a satisfied comment from Jobbik, who are satisfied with some of the passage of the law. Since quite a lot of people here recalled the past, I felt like I was in a time machine and we were flying back to 2017. I used to work in the European Parliament in Brussels at the time, and only through the press could I detect the kind of foaming that a very small handful of organisations, especially from a large number of sources, were inciting in Brussels by moving the international press. We know that there are 60,000 civil society organisations in Hungary that help democracy in Hungary as a value-creating civil society organisation, they fulfil the rule of law, and at the beginning we saw that it was very few civil society organisations financed from just a dozen countries that were already dissatisfied with the 2017 law. At the same time, so-called doomsday visions such as these speeches were outlined in Europe, and they were able to intercede so well with the European Commission that an infringement procedure was launched. All of this, so that Hungary does not have to follow the opinion of the Venice Commission. Most of the recommendations were put into the law at the time. Many people here have said that they have created an atmosphere of mistrust, so let me note that in the last four years, many civil society organisations, which are law-abiding, have really enriched the democratic debate in Hungary, they have been able to register themselves on the civil information portal without any criticism or problems. These include animal welfare organisations, and quite a lot of organisations that wish to achieve a very good goal. They didn't have any problems, they didn't feel that there was a climate of distrust around them, they didn't feel that they were suppressing and putting social organisations under political pressure in Hungary. Quite simply, an unprecedented or, unfortunately, politically motivated campaign has been launched, a campaign has been launched against the civil law of that time, the transparency law of that time in Brussels, the result of which has been the result, since the infringement procedure has been initiated, and then there has been legal proceedings, and the judgment, as has been repeatedly said today, has successfully established the violation of virtually all fundamental rights. As Minister of Justice, I will not say my own opinion here, but I believe that we have succeeded in violating the law in an unbelievable way. Even though the law that the bill is now going to repeal has never prevented the civil society organisation from being the holder of support from abroad. There was an ex post notification obligation in place, to which, as I said, a lot of people were able to meet, alongside music, without any problems. So I would like to say that we are bringing common sense back into our debates. Four years past, we are here, we have our verdict, and I welcomed its content already in the summer, when the judgment was delivered, because it is clear that we are not arguing with Europe, nor with the law-abiding, bona fide citizens and civil society. I mean, the target's fine. What's the goal? To ensure the greatest transparency in public life and social life, it is also rightly so with regard to non-governmental organisations that rule democracy. The instrument was controversial, so it is an instrument dispute and not a debate on the purpose. Let me confirm this by quoting from the judgment, which has two very, very important statements, which I think we should continue to take with us, and thus approach all such debates. The Court has confirmed that, in view of the objectives pursued by them and the means at their disposal, there is a distinction between a group of civil society organisations which are capable of exerting a significant influence on public life and public debate. I would like to say to the Member woman that the ability to influence public life is not a figment of the government's imagination, but a very important statement of fact, a statement, in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If we look at European public life, we can create a category simply by realizing that there are organisations that, although not acting as political parties and actors, but which, thanks to the available tools, are able to exert a greater influence on public life than the average. It is a skill, and this ability has been confirmed several times by the Venice Commission in its reports, and it has also detailed what it means. It is said in a report that non-governmental actors with more tools and resources can exert greater and more lasting influence on public life, for example because they can hire more people, rent bigger offices, organise more conferences, and thus reach more people. [[18.50]] These are simple facts. This is why the presumption that provides non-discriminatory protection is not targeted, it is simply aimed at this kind of ability to be there in many different places, no matter what type of organisation it is that this 20 million HUF, we live in Hungary, we have looked at other national, national examples in Europe, Austria, there are extra obligations over certain revenues. So that is how this presumption was set up, as the President said, which confirmed Mr Nacsa's comment, which is an understandable figure in the Hungarian civil sphere. So that's the presumption. I believe that this other obligation, imposed by this very, very short law, is that practically the existing reporting obligation is made even more practical by the 21st century. In accordance with the requirements of the 20th century, as it prefers electronic submission, but it is only above the 5 million balance sheet totals... I believe that the former information from the President of the SAO shows that this only contributes to the fact that compliance in Hungary becomes even more obvious. This is a simple form download program from birosag.hu, which should not otherwise be a burden for an experienced NGO administrator. Allow me to add a few more thoughts about the fact that some criticized the fact that almost a year had passed. However, I would like to say that 29 months is the time to comply with the average EU judgments in the 27 Member States. 29 months is more than two years. It has been only ten months since July, and we are already here, and if everything goes well and you support it, we will be able to pass the sentence as soon as possible, which, let me stress once again, did not argue with the Hungarian legislation, not in the end, but in the instrument. Some thoughts, just complementing the comments of the president of the SAO. There's a lot of people here who've got all kinds of political pressure. I do not understand it, and I do not think it is possible to understand with reason that, if there is already an obligation to draw up accounts, an appropriate law-abiding attitude, as so many have said, the Member has also indicated that all these organisations are in compliance with the rules, I do not understand that there could be any problem with the fact that the existing data content should otherwise be made electronic. Later, the SAO, which, by the way, makes a public report on these data, makes a report... which, by the way, does not have any legal consequences, but only that the result is the public. So what appears to you to be a sanction, according to Timmermans, Jourova, is a treasure of the rule of law and a base. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: This is not a rule of law!]] I mean, it's gonna be the publicity that's gonna judge who's got all the money you can't even judge anyway, you just have to look at it. This is a fundamental requirement in a transparent democratic rule of law. This is something that you are the most accountable for or blubbering in Brussels and here in Hungary. Moreover, the fact that the SAO has a traditional function which it performs does not preclude other functions being assigned to it by the legislator by analogy. The Member said in her speech that she was capable of influencing public life. I believe that the ability to influence public life, to act as a kind of actor, is not only an opportunity, but it is clear that some basic conditions can be met, for example, by submitting this report. So this is not as much of a requirement as in the case of parties, where we can see that they act openly as actors, because this is their basic task, which requires them to meet many, many criteria. In comparison to this, organisations with a very powerful influence but operating in the civil sector and acting under such a heading have already had far fewer obligations laid down by the legislator, and the current legislation makes the reporting obligation above 5 million balance sheet totals virtually electronic. By the way, this is a practical requirement, we know that we are dealing with very often scanned or hand-filled reports, and that appropriate transparency may be better served by the use of an electronic filling-out program. So I think that the debate that I read from the outside four years ago, and the doomsday visions in the international press, I think we should leave out, and we shouldn't visualize the negation of the civil sphere, the narrowing of the civil sphere. Horrible images were heard here. I think we should look at what happened then: some of them beat the drum, and a lot of people met the requirement, the law at the time, which, in my personal opinion, was in line with the current EU standards, and even took into account the opinion of the Venice Commission. Now civil society organisations will be subject to a much milder situation, so to speak. I don't think you can be serious about these criticisms. As they said, civil society organisations are already good for everything, so I think they have nothing to worry about, but nothing to worry about. The civil sphere flourishes in Hungary, and it will continue to flourish. Your support: let me tell you, Congresswoman, that, since 2010, I have had a data that has practically multiplied the amount of state aid between 10 and 19 because from 144 billion forints a year to 354 billion forints a year, i.e. more than two and a half times the amount of state aid that flows towards the civil sector. So I too am richer today with a very good hope, because I participated in more than two hours of the Civilian Group on Family Rights, where we have our civil partners in the fight against contact violence, 38 of them registered with all kinds of ideas and interests, and we can cooperate very well with them. Thus, the government has always considered citizens who are willing to act and act to achieve good faith and real results as partners. So I am asking you to look at this law sober and to support it so that we can meet the EU's expectations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-29-162	Thank you very much, Secretary Judit Varga. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws in the context of service and judicial sector regulation until closure. The government referral is T/15972. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2021-04-29-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill you have in your hands contains amendments to a number of laws on the subject of justice. These legislative amendments are typically combined with the common goal of promoting the application of law, based on the practical experience of the past period, so that laws fit in with changing social, organisational and technical conditions, as well as legal coherence. The bill represents a major part of the amendments related to the implementation of the new regulations adopted as a result of EU legislation in the last period and the transposition of directives and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, which have become necessary in criminal proceedings and in civil, material and procedural matters. Allow me to give you more details on the planned changes to individual laws. Dear House, The bill implements amendments relating to criminal law in respect of four laws. Three main reasons lie behind these changes. The first is the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, which took place as a multi-stage process for EU legislation. The Brexit started with the period covered by the exit agreement from 1 February 2020. As of 1 January 2021, the international treaty between the European Union and the United Kingdom, the Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which has already introduced a new, autonomous, directly applicable set of rules, has become provisionally applicable. Although the agreement was concluded in the last days of December 2020, it had to be applied a few days later. Although the text of the agreement in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters substantially reiterates the forms of cooperation and institutional system contained in Union acts, in some cases the enforcement feedback has made it necessary to clarify and supplement the provisions of domestic criminal law. In this context, the law on the system of criminal records had to be amended to allow the request for and transmission of data from criminal records to continue within the framework of the European Criminal Record Information System for the United Kingdom. In addition, in the case of the United Kingdom, the Union palmprint and the DNA profile should be able to be compared electronically for law enforcement purposes in the same way as the Member States of the Union. [[19.00]] Finally, the most important amendment to the exit concerns the procedure for the enforcement of judgments in the United Kingdom. Under the law governing cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, a Member State's judgment is identical to that of the Hungarian court, and in most cases it is taken into account by the authorities in accordance with the principle of mutual recognition, without any formal act. If necessary, a Member State's judgment compliance may take place, with the aim of ensuring that certain provisions of the national judgment, penalties, measures and legal consequences are compatible with the Hungarian laws. Judgments from third countries outside the European Union are settled by the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Accordingly, a foreign judgment can only prevail in Hungary if it has been recognised by the designated Hungarian court, given that it can be a judgment given in any country on Earth. Common legal values, mutual recognition and mutual trust are in place in the European Union and, accordingly, compliance with the judgments of the Member States is a simplified procedure consistent with a significant number of judgments. On the other hand, the recognition of judgments of third countries is a complex and lengthy procedure covering all elements of the judgment, including enhanced guarantees. The amendment of the laws governing international cooperation in criminal matters in the Member States and third countries makes it clear that the procedure governing the judgments of the United Kingdom should be applied in respect of the judgments of the Member States. This solution ensures the effective implementation of law enforcement and punishment objectives while maintaining and applying justified warranty rules such as the requirement of double criminality, as well as the applicability of EU data communication channels. The second group of amendments on the subject of criminal law is based on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Kosurnikov and Others v Hungary. In the light of the conclusions of the Court of Justice, the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters has been amended, which now fully provides for a periodic periodic review of the justification for the imposition of compulsory measures on the property ordered on the basis of a request for assistance. The amendment also provides for the possibility of abolishing the emergency measure if, on the basis of the failure of the requesting Member State, the maintenance of the emergency measure would become illegal. Finally, the third group of amendments on the subject of criminal law is the clarification and updating of the nullity law on the part of the application of the law. The basically technical amendment ensuring the coherence of the legal system is to adapt the formal procedural rules of the act of nullity to the provisions of the law of criminal proceedings in force. Dear Parliament, The bill also amends the law on judicial enforcement, which contains provisions to further strengthen the judicial and legal order of the executive society and public trust. The amendment brings the regulation on notaries and executives into line with the fact that, like notaries, it clearly prohibits executives from hiring any executive agency suspended from its office due to disciplinary or criminal proceedings. At the same time, it makes it compulsory for the executor to maintain the liability insurance of at least HUF 30 million to cover the compensation or damages, in addition to its operation, during the interruption of its executive service, and even if the executioner has been suspended from office. The amendment clarifies the scope of the data registered by the Office of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Hungarian Court of Justice, the independent judicial executives, and strengthens the conditions for the removal of candidates from the register, given that the tasks and responsibilities of the executive candidates with the executive exam have increased. In the context of the tasks of the non-executive candidate, the bill states that he is involved in the enforcement procedure on the basis of the executive's direction and instructions and that the resulting claims for damages or damages should be enforced against the executioner. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also ensures consistency of civil law legislation with EU law. In the case of contracts between the consumer and the undertaking, the EU legislature laid down common rules for sales contracts between the consumer and the undertaking and contracts for the supply of digital content or for the provision of digital services. Member States shall adopt and publish provisions ensuring compliance with the Directives by 1 July 2021, which shall apply from 1 January 2022. The scope of the directives is already regulated by Hungarian civil law and concerns the system of defective performance, so it is necessary to transpose them and to ensure consistency between Hungarian law and EU law. Due to digital development, special goods and digital content and services have appeared on the internal market of the European Union, where consumers need to be given a high level of legal protection in the event of a failure to fulfil their business. The scope of the regulation covers, inter alia, the contractuality of goods and digital services, the system of defective performance and the conditions for the enforcement of available remedies. The regulation provides for a very wide range of legal protection, such as computer programs, applications, digital games, faulty performance of video and audio-sharing services, smart TV or smartphone with pre-installed applications containing video applications. In order to ensure a uniform system of remedies, it is necessary to adapt the right of warranty already available in the Hungarian legislation in the light of the full obligation of harmonisation of EU legislation. It is also the establishment of an authorisation clause for the transposition of directives due to take place, which is regulated at the level of the Government Decree for full compliance. In the context of effective implementation, the Directives require Member States to ensure the right of the body defined by national law to initiate judicial or administrative proceedings. This system of instruments is already made available by existing Hungarian law through certain provisions of the Consumer Protection Act. However, in order to comply with EU legal requirements, the bill states that the consumer protection authority is also entitled to deal with infringements within the European Union in the case of sales contracts between the consumer and the undertaking and in the case of contracts for the supply of digital content or for the provision of digital services. In order to comply with EU acts on different subjects, the Civil Code and the Consumer Protection Act will be amended and adapted for harmonisation purposes in order to ensure the internal coherence of the legal system. Dear Parliament, The bill also ensures the domestic implementation of the EU rules on civil assistance with EU Member States which have changed since 1 July 2022. This is primarily a technical amendment to the current domestic provisions relating to existing EU regulations in the law on judicial enforcement, civil order and private international law. For the proper application of the new EU regulations governing civil cooperation with regard to the service of documents and the taking of evidence, it is also necessary to supplement the internal legislation contained in the Act on Private International Law. One of the important novelties of the new delivery regulation is that it also provides for assistance between Member States to establish the address of the consignee. The bill appoints the Minister for Justice to receive and comply with legal aid applications for this purpose, similar to a number of bilateral civil assistance treaties. The new Regulation on taking evidence will extend the concept of a court to other authorities designated by the Member States in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Regulation, which will be able to send requests for assistance to other EU Member States to obtain evidence in the future under the new Regulation. Since notaries act in succession or order of payment cases, or guardians act in certain matters concerning parental control and contact, the bill complements the list of authorities entitled to apply the new regulation outside the courts, with these two types of authorities. The new evidence-gathering regulation lays down specific rules for hearing with the use of telecommunications technology, and the bill appoints the Minister for Justice to receive requests for foreign legal assistance. Certain bilateral and multilateral legal assistance agreements governing the taking of evidence directly allow the consular officer to take evidence in the territory of other States. The new Regulation on the taking of evidence also ensures the applicability of this way of taking evidence, subject to the internal law of the sending State of the consular officer. At the same time, Hungarian internal law does not currently contain a provision ensuring this way of taking evidence, but this option should also be applicable in the EU. [[19.10]] The bill also provides for the possibility of hearing Hungarian citizens by a Hungarian consular officer and lays down rules on this. Dear Parliament, In addition to the legislation already mentioned, the bill amends the law on the service relationship of judicial staff and the law on the status and remuneration of judges. These amendments are necessary to ensure consistency within and within the legal system. It is an important aspect of legislation that certain laws of the legal system are consistent with each other. This should also apply to the rules on the status and remuneration of judges, judicial staff and prosecutors, as well as non-prosecutorial prosecutorial staff. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already indicated, in addition to the above amendments, the bill makes minor but important corrections to certain laws. The importance of these is to respond to certain life situations in practice and to take advantage of enforcement signals. Allow me to highlight some of these amendments. By amending the Act on Mediation Activities, based on the experience of the practitioners, the bill will reduce administration in relation to the fulfilment of the conditions of the register of mediators and become mediators, and will enhance the credibility of the data contained in the register and the enforcement of professional requirements by introducing additional guarantee rules. This rule ensures, at the same time, the private interest in the temporary cessation of mediation activities and the public interest in the credibility of the register data, i.e. the register of the intermediaries actually available. One of the main rules of the amendment to the Law on Judicial Experts is that it significantly accelerates the procedure for entering into the list of judicial experts by not having to obtain the opinion of the Hungarian Chamber of Judicial Experts for each application in the future. As a result of the amendment supported by the Chamber, the inclusion in the register based on purely objective criteria could therefore be carried out either by means of a sommed procedure, i.e. within eight days of the receipt of the request. In addition to simplifying the procedure for the registration of the registration authority, the bill also aims to facilitate the work of the ordering authorities and the payers. A minor modification of the content of the register will make the secondment more smooth and will ensure wider information to the assigning authority and the sponsor and compliance with the rules of electronic administration. On the basis of practical experience, requests for information from the issuing authorities shall be submitted to the authority leading to the register beyond the period of retention of the data deleted from the register. In view of this, the bill raises the period for the deletion of data from the current ten years to 20 years, thereby facilitating the effective and enhanced involvement of the public trust register in the judiciary and maintaining legal certainty. By way of amendment of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Lawyer, in the case of immunity, the rule relating to a suspended sentence of imprisonment relating to the period of waiting required for the pursuit of the activity of a lawyer shall not apply. Electronic administration and the widespread use of advanced technologies are of increasing importance in the legal practice. In order to adapt the regulation to practical needs, the rule on the means of authentication to be used in the form of electronic documents is amended by requiring the use of qualified electronic signatures only in the form of electronic documents produced as ancillary activity by a lawyer other than a lawyer. In all other cases, other electronic authentication solutions, e.g. document verification returned to identification, may be used depending on the type of use. The amendment also extends the scope of the priority codes for which the Minister exercises prior legal oversight and the validity of the Code and its amendment, by laying down detailed rules on the compulsory further training of lawyers. The amendments to the General Administrative Rules Act contain technical and clarification provisions for the extension of the scope of orders which may be subject to an individual appeal and the definition of the details of the closing. The amendments make it clear that the enforcement order and the order on the insurance measure are also subject to an autonomous remedy and that the latter is the subject of an exclusion of the suspensive effect of a possible appeal. In the context of locking, it becomes clear that cases of termination are also relevant for seizure. The amendments to the administrative procedure concern the arrangements for the Curia's appeals procedures. The most important task of the Curia, as defined in the Fundamental Law, is to ensure the unity of the application of the law, but it also acts in cases which occur in bulk such as the examination of appeals against judgments in administrative cases. In its proceedings for appeal against a court order, the rules on the composition of the court shall be changed so that a single judge, with the exception of a decision-making order, i.e. order rejecting an application or terminating proceedings, may, however, in view of the complexity of the case, be referred to the three-member Chamber. In general, legal representation becomes mandatory for the parties in appeals proceedings before the Curia, including against orders. An appeal against a decision assessing an application for immediate protection of rights shall, following the amendment, be dealt with by the Curia within a period of 30 days from the date of application, instead of the 15 days in force. In addition, the bill includes the law on the application of legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. The amendment of this law also provides for the right to record costs in contacts proceedings in order to facilitate the application of the law to the courts. A specific statement of this is necessary because contact lawsuits are specifically named among special lawsuits by the Civil Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Regulatory technical corrections concern certain provisions of the Constitutional Court Act, the Public Service Officers Act and the Act on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The amendment to the Law on notaries removes the possibility of transferring without a tender to the vacant, empty or newly created notary seat, since it is no longer justified by ensuring continuity in the service of notary tasks. The amendment of the expropriation law makes it clear, in accordance with the rules on administrative litigation, that the decision of the expropriation authority may be changed by the court with the exception laid down in the law. With the entry into force of the Law on the liquidation of undivided common property on land and the real estate registration of land holders of land classified as land, a review of the ownership of land of undivided common ownership was initiated. As a result of the verification, it was found that, in the case of a number of agricultural holdings, the public register contains a deceased person as the owner. In this context, in order to settle the ownership situation, an increasing number of requests for additional inheritance proceedings are received by the municipalities. The supplement to the Law on the probate procedure provides that the time limit for the inventory of the probate and replacement inheritance procedures to be made available to the notary from the real estate authority increases to 60 days instead of the 30 days for other legacy procedures. The purpose of the amendment to the Government Administration Act is to involve professional leaders in addition to the administrators of central government administrations of the required compulsory training. Dear House, In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the following: the bill seeks to incorporate into the provisions of the laws concerned the needs that have been raised in practice in a way supported by professional representation bodies. The amendments also contribute to adapting the laws to changing technical, economic and social conditions and to maintaining the consistency of the various laws. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-04-29-164	Welcome, good evening. Mainnote speakers will be held. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr László Salacz, can express his thoughts. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill is to amend certain laws on judicial and administrative procedures and procedural matters, so that practical experience in the application of the law can be utilized and implemented, and that laws fit in with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. [[19.20]] The bill contains technical amendments to a number of laws, so I do not want to mention them in detail, but I would just like to highlight a few things that justify the amendments. Due to Brexit, it is necessary to amend several of our international and European Union legislation on criminal law and criminal cooperation in order to ensure that the exchange of criminal information, access to criminal record systems and various forms of international criminal assistance can continue to work smoothly. The amendment of the law on judicial enforcement brings the regulation on notaries and executives into line with the fact that, like notaries, it clearly prohibits the employment of executive executive agencies suspended from their duties for disciplinary or criminal purposes. It will be clarified that an executive can only be appointed to a district court. The amendment of the law on the service of judicial staff is intended to ensure consistency between the various legal status laws. In the case of judicial staff, the bill clarifies the period of service to be included in the previous legal relationship in terms of entitlement to the Jubilee Prize. On the basis of the amendment, in addition to what has been done so far, the time spent in the judicial service relationship, the prosecutor's service relationship, as well as the duration of the lawyer's activities, notary and court enforcement services should be included. Dear House, As of 1 July 2022, new EU delivery and evidence-gathering regulations will replace the rules on civil assistance between the Member States of the European Union. Provisions relating to the implementation of the regulations currently in force are laid down in the Law on Court Enforcement, the Civil Procedure Act and the Law on Private International Law. The new delivery and taking of evidence regulation contains new elements which require legislative steps to ensure their proper application in Hungary, and so it is necessary to amend those laws. The new delivery regulation provides for the possibility of submitting a request for legal assistance for home address research to courts and authorities, and for that, Member States should designate their competent authorities for receiving such requests for assistance. The bill will deploy this task to the Minister of Justice. A possible way of taking evidence abroad is to be heard by the consular officer, which is explicitly permitted by some of our bilateral and multilateral legal assistance agreements. As opposed to the current Regulation on the taking of evidence, the new Regulation on taking of evidence will also provide this possibility, but only if the law of the sending State of the consular officer permits it. In view of this, Hungarian law should allow for the applicability of this way of taking evidence in the EU, which is also ensured by the bill. In addition, since there are currently no procedural rules in Hungarian law for the hearing by the Consul, which is also a noticeable lack of practical experience, the bill also remedys this and sets out provisions for consular hearings. The amendment to the Law on Judicial Experts includes, inter alia, an increase in the retention period of data deleted from the register from 10 to 20 years in order to meet ex post expert or official data requests. Based on the experience of the authority leading the register, judicial and police requests concerning the fields of expertise and contact details of the experts who have previously acted in order to establish their procedural eligibility have been received for more than 10 years. Responding to these requests and ensuring the effective and enhanced involvement of the public trust register in justice requires an extension of the retention period. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal put forward by the Government, as we can see, contains proposals for legislative amendments to facilitate the proper application of EU regulations and seeks to make the application of law and to simplify certain procedures more effective on the basis of years of practical experience. In our rapidly changing world, it is important to adapt to socio-technical conditions, but also to our obligations to harmonise EU legislation. This bill serves these purposes, so the Fidesz Group supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-29-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As usual, we usually get salad laws from the Justice Department. When I read your address, I thought that there would be a substantial change in the court delivery rule here, and that's what the law is about, and then somehow I looked and looked, and I could hardly find anything about it, but I found very, very much in it, other amendments to the law that actually had nothing to do with it. And we always say that, in fact, there is nothing wrong with the salad law when it really covers the same subject, but we rarely encounter it in the legislative proposals in the presentation of the Ministry of Justice. These are usually non-linked, integrated things, which we are not happy about, because we always say our excuses about this, that every single point of these proposals is not always professional, and it is very often hidden in a politically unacceptable amendment that has nothing to do with the subject, and that is why it has to be highly critical. It's always suspicious when we get a proposal like this. And we have now received a salad law, in which 26 laws are changing, and there really is not much connection in it. Of course, it is very nice when the author of the proposal sets out the objectives that, in fact, this is the transposition of the case law into the law, and in fact, this is only a step forward. Of course, they're very nice, but it'd be nice to have them separately, on a theme-by- theme basis. We could take a completely different approach to a bill. And unfortunately, it is also a big-big problem that very often, obviously deliberately, legislative amendments are included in a salad law that is completely unacceptable to the opposition, and it is very unpleasant to have a good bill of up to 80-90 percent, which is really forward-looking and indeed intends to exercise legislation in relation to practical experience, which cannot be voted on because there is a political bomb hidden in it, which only makes it possible to vote against a bill. But if we look at this bill in particular: as I said, the stated goal would seem to be particularly positive: the practical experience of the past period should be used, and help with the application of the law. So I think that there is no parliamentary faction that does not support such submissions and does not want practical experience, does not want to facilitate the application of the law, thus speeding up the handling of cases, and the rest. But let us take a specific look at one or two of these proposals. The rules for notarial posts to be filled by relocation are changing, quite soon, because the amendment that is now being amended entered into force on 1 January 2021. Obviously, one wonders why it took four months. Obviously, there's some explanation that in view of the Covid situation, they didn't want it to be possible to fill a vacant post somewhere. It is understandable, but in this regard one is always beginning to wonder whether we are not dealing with personalised legislation from Fidesz, that someone's appointment had to change that legislation quickly for 3-4 months. The problem is that, as opposition politicians, that's what comes to mind, because that's what we do for the government, and for the government parties, that this kind of legislation is usually created because of some sort of personalised legislation. Then, if it's fulfilled, then there's no need for it, then we can lead it out. [[19.30]] Obviously, that's thoughtful, but I raised that as a rhetorical question. Court enforcement is a next phase, the law on judicial enforcement prohibits the application by another executive agency of the enforcement agency suspended from its office due to disciplinary or criminal proceedings. I think that this is fully eligible and to be voted in favour. We have always supported amendments on the part of the Jobbik Hungary Movement regarding judicial enforcement that have tightened up and clarified the system, as we have heard and learned of a lot of abuse when the individual executives did not act in accordance with the law, or did things that we even considered to be reprehensible, at least morally and often legally. Here, too, we consider the tightening up to be important in this respect, as well as the fact that the executive can only be appointed to one district court. The law on the status and remuneration of judges is also amended on two subjects. One eliminates a small omission, which determines the scope of the disciplinary penalty by two steps in the event of disciplinary punishment. This has not happened before, so the legislation becomes more precise and states that, in the event of the termination of the position of a judge assigned to another organisation, no tender is required when he is assigned to another post. In this regard, we have repeatedly expressed our criticisms that the current situation should be a little liberalised in relation to the transfer of judges in court, and it may not be good for an appointed judge, if he moves to another city, to be able to apply on the same terms as a candidate from outside or from anywhere. So, obviously, in these cases, it should be supported if the transfer is carried out within the courts, of course, with due care, but there is a possibility. The reduction in the administration of mediation activities should also be supported. Then the Ministry found another problem with the undivided common property in the fields. Obviously, we know that the real estate register does not always reflect the current state, and this is not the property register's fault, but obviously there are a lot of changes in people's lives. This is also the case if a deceased person is a deceased person, if this is not declared, the succession procedure is not carried out, then the name of the deceased person is clearly included in the real estate register. This very often causes difficulties either in court proceedings or in proceedings to terminate undivided joint ownership. These should obviously be promoted, in which case an additional legacy procedure should be carried out. Here's the 30-day deadline, when the replacement legacy is entered into inventory, rising to 60 days. Obviously, this will not speed up, but slow down this process, so we do not see the acceleration in this, but obviously, if the notaries do have such a large number of problems and they do cause serious difficulties, then obviously this 30-day increase in the deadline for administration is acceptable. A major chapter would be the amendment of the civil code, but there will be only a small part of any amendment here, and the legislation that enters into force will be changed here as well, the aim of the amendment is to bring about consistency between EU law and Hungarian law, which we cannot say again; it is clear that if Hungary is a member of the European Union, then it should be recognised that the European Union's directives of Parliament and of the Council are in line, and this should also be supported. Civil aid between EU Member States will be dealt with in the legislation. This is about speeding up communication, and practical experience clearly shows that often in these legal aids, there is nothing forward in a year or two. These civil procedures are practically stuck, there is no proper evidence, it is very difficult to obtain them, the legal aid service is slow, the translation is difficult, and the rest, years have to wait. We can only welcome all kinds of accelerations in this regard, and therefore we very much hope that in the future electronic communication will also serve to accelerate. The legislation on judicial experts is also changing, but to a very small extent, it accelerates the conditions for removal from the register and makes the amendments to that effect more smooth. A little bit bigger is the part of the amendment that consists of several parts that have to be included or taken into account because the United Kingdom, we know well, has left the European Union, so there are a lot of changes, and this also affects justice. There are minor changes here, which have been formulated here on several points, but I do not wish to describe them any more; Secretary of State Völner has described these points in detail, on which these changes are being made. On this basis, in addition to disagreeing with the submission of the salad law in this way, this amendment of the law may also be eligible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-29-168	Thank you very much. And now, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was expecting Congressman Nacha...
u2021-04-29-170	Well, he's got me, so please accept what we have now. [[Defiance.]]
u2021-04-29-171	I didn't say, Mr. President, that I was dissatisfied. [[Defiance.]]
u2021-04-29-172	Thank you very much, it's starting well. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2021-04-29-173	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The purpose of the bill amending individual laws in the context of service and judicial sector regulation is to amend certain laws on judicial and administrative procedural law in order to benefit from the practical experience of the past period and to facilitate the application of law and to ensure that the laws are in line with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. I'll tell you why I read it like that. In this context, there are a number of parts of the proposal where the need for improvement and the underlying reflection and assessment is felt. Such are the provisions of the proposal aimed at increasing the deadline for replacement succession proceedings, as practical experience shows that in many cases dead persons are registered as owners; it is indeed necessary to improve this system a little. However, the content of the other amendments to the proposal cannot be ignored. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, said that this salad law also contains amendments to 26 laws. Let's just say we're not surprised at that anymore, because it's the practice of the last few years for you. Of course, putting practical experience into the legislative level is not a problem at all. However, the government seems to have a serious problem with decision preparation. That is why I read the first sentence, because it was recognised by your State Secretary, Balázs Orbán, at the conference of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences a few weeks ago, that the government's decision preparation was explained by the idea that the government did not want to spend so much time preparing decisions, rather in practice. This concept is a problem in itself, as it leads to legislative products such as the bill before us. What my fellow Member has said is that they do not deal with the preparation, we often say that many important amendments to the law are included in the salad law or will be submitted to Parliament as a separate motion. [[19.40]] And in essence, its representatives are avoiding it with independent motions to bring about the socialization of the law. There is no decision preparation, there is not a well-educated legislative amendment, and here within the walls of Parliament, we Members will tell our concerns on the part of the opposition. The pro-government representatives are very quickly passing through Parliament by voting, even in accelerated procedures, and then they will try it in practice, and in practice, as my fellow Member said, let us say, a law adopted four months ago is already here before Parliament to amend it, because in practice they have realised that this was not the way it should have been done, that it should not have been done, that it does not work in practice, or that there are parts of it that need to be changed immediately. And that's exactly what this salad law is all about. Twenty-six other laws are being amended by the salad law. There are provisions that we voted on a few months ago, and it is right here in front of Parliament. As a critic, allow me, Mr. Secretary, that is precisely the problem. For the past 11 years, this practice has been constantly in the legislation, bringing it into Parliament, discussing it, seeing that it was prepared very quickly. We have been able to list a lot of mistakes in relation to these laws, but you voted in favour of them, and then they were returned here within a few months or a year or two, because these proposals had to be amended. I wouldn't drag it any further. We think that in some cases we can see the intention of improving, that there are good thoughts, but precisely because of this practice, we believe that we will vote with abstention, because we believe that it is impossible to say yes to this amendment. And I would recommend to Mr Secretary of State that around the end of the term, perhaps we should try to bring professionally prepared laws here to Parliament and try once to see what it's like to go through a system and see if it works. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-29-174	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The Members and ladies of the opposition before me have said a lot of criticisms that I would have liked to have said, so I am only trying to discuss them briefly, but I have to mention them. In fact, every two months, we begin a debate by talking about the government putting a package of laws, a salad package, in which it asks for laws that are otherwise incompatible with each other, unconnected laws to be negotiated and adopted. I still think that would be a problem, and we have said this several times that if, by the way, they were partly related, because, yes, not only the processing, not only the interpretation, but also the correct handling or the preparation and negotiation of good quality, but we also find here a package that amends, perhaps twenty-two or twenty-six laws, in which the government is asking for absolutely unrelated things to be changed. My favourite thing is that right after the notary law, there is an amendment to the law on the annulment of convictions for crimes against state and public order between 1963 and 1989. It's obviously got nothing to do with notaries changing the law on crimes against state and public order. So, many times we have said, Secretary of State representing the Government, and Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, that if there is no coherent link between the various proposed legislative amendments, it is a qualitatively degraded, bad substance. He's questioning himself that such a thing should be presented here. But he's here. Then you'll have to deal with it. And I have the same problem and we have the same problem in DK as my colleague Gyüre said in his speech, that in his technique the government applies in the past and in the past, regularly, that, in addition to the proposals and proposals containing rational proposals in the right, good, good, good direction, and legislative proposals, as little bonbons are just as bad-tasting bonbons, they put in the bill points and amendments to laws that are not good, they are not right, they are not rational, they are not eligible, or at least not compared to the rest of the bill. So that's what we're meeting here. I could give you a long list, and I'm not saying that as an empty term, I could really give you a long list of the positives of the law package, what we think is good about these things. But the problem is, in addition to the many, many positives, let's say you can find three or four points that are worrying, which is problematic, which is a problem. And it's always a puzzle, and I'll tell you honestly which one we're looking at. It means that something, say, 80-90 percent right and good and forward-looking, or 10 percent that's hard to accept. Since there are many positives, let me not set an example. Let me get my reviews, let me get the points that we have a problem with. There are smaller ones and bigger ones. I'll start with the small ones. The fact that the retention period of data deleted from the register is increased from 10 years to 20 years in the amendment of the law on judicial experts is of concern to us. How can we say ten years? There was a level of explanation, but the fact that this was even doubled for a very difficult 20-year period in many respects does not seem to us to have any reason to do so, nor does it explain in particular why this is necessary in the justification of the law. Then it may be a little something to smile that the amendment to the law on private international law is about or is involved, while it is the transposition of a directive, or to a large extent, if I understand the proposal correctly, that the various regular forms can then be sent by fax. In 2021, I would very much like to look at the practical impact of this. I'd like to zoom in to zero, I think. Our third problem is that; and I will be dealing with a more serious, two more serious problems. The first is that in the past, perhaps six months, this is the second to third package of laws dealing with implementation, with amendments to executives, judicial enforcement; there is one in it right now. And I understand that the intention and the proposal that this should be a little more streamlined and full of modifications to how obstacles, problems, and difficulties in the enforcement of a court can be rolled forward and repaired. Since I say this is the second such case, that the government touches on this issue, in Covid's time, when it is difficult to find a reason why it deals with such a matter anyway, what is the matter, what is the social need for which it deals; we cannot get rid of the idea that behind it is the coming 30th of June, the closing date of the moratorium on credit repayment and cancellation. Countless data, countless facts indicate that there will be very serious tens of thousands and possibly hundreds of thousands, who will then be shocked to see the loan repayment increase. We know that the crisis has affected hundreds of thousands of people badly, so they have lost their jobs or are in a worse financial situation. We know this from the fact that there is data on the increase in the number and amount of debts to utility and telecommunications operators. There has also been an increase in the SME sector, so there is a situation in the country that meets economic problems and is becoming increasingly difficult and affects hundreds of thousands of people. [[19.50]] It is not difficult to conclude from this that when the moratorium on loan repayment ceases after 30 June, the increasing loan repayments will cause a great deal of problems. Was it related to this situation, to this expected situation, that the government would therefore modify, streamline, I'm telling you, perhaps for the third time this year, this whole topic? And if so, I have to say that I would have preferred to have seen a proposal that would want to solve the problems of these people; not that, after the drama and the problem that has taken place, what it means is that the repayment of credit will increase, and therefore a significant number of people will be in difficult financial circumstances to make implementation as smooth as possible in this case. I think it's a cynical attitude to this thing, if there's such a government thought behind this series of amendments. My last comment on the proposal is also a bit theoretical, and I have to say, in the context of amendments to notaries and courts, that for many of the time we are meeting regularly with new amendments to the same laws, these areas, let us say that these are amendments to the laws concerning professional rules. I only watched last year, in March, July and October 2020, there was a major package of amendments. It's as if I remember that we've already dealt with this issue this year. What I'm saying is, it's not good to touch the same laws over and over again, regularly, every few months. On the one hand, it shows that my fellow Member has also said to me that the preparation of these laws was therefore inadequate, but we are now at the point that the preparation of the amending packages was no longer appropriate, at least that is necessarily the case. The other problem is a little more theoretical. There, if people's lives are affected... because they meet notaries, we meet them in the courts' corridors, their affairs are dealt with by the courts, if they change regularly, every two or three months, the rules between which these bodies operate and what citizens perceive as changing do not increase their belief in legal certainty. The predictability that would be a fundamental need for the functioning of the judicial system is either impaired or simply not predictable by the system, thus also impairing its effectiveness. So I would like to suggest to the government, with all due respect, that these kinds of proposals should always come here prepared, and I know that I look at Mr Secretary of State that this is a great demand and a great expectation, but the fact that every two or three months we are doing this again and again to amend the same laws is not normal, it is not a good thing, it is not professionally correct. And I'm telling you, the citizens who are affected by this don't have a need for a change in the right direction. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-29-176	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It could be a two-minute speech, but no one's applied for it. It's not a request, it's a statement of the facts. Other speeches will follow. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2021-04-29-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a few things from the law here. The proposal consists of several elements. As you can see, these are usually rather short. So if I remember correctly, 26 was mentioned by one of the speakers. So we could have 26 debates, no doubt, but in general, we are saving them for the codes or for the more extensive laws. But I think it will fit in a session in front of the Members, because we have been able to look at it in depth. Thank you very much for the comments that have acknowledged that, professionally, for example, there is no problem with the transpositions of directives and others. There was talk of notary transfers, practically during a pandemic period, the idea was to quickly fill the seats. Now you can see that there has been an experience of this epidemic, how to live in these conditions. This is why this is possible. As regards the negotiations: so the provisions of this Act have been discussed with the Competition Authority, NAIH, the bar of lawyers, notaries, the executive faculty, the National Court Office, and therefore with all the relevant professional organisations. This is the first time in this session, by the way, I would just like to mention to my fellow Member, Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk, that there is no such thing as bringing more salads on the same subject to the House in one session. This, if we monitor it more closely, can be seen to be incorrect. At the same time, it is also true that changes are constantly coming from professional organisations, for example, there is now a notary chamber that has not been included in this. Maybe in the fall it will be again, if it requires real life, social needs, smoothness. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, also commented that we have just tightened up, made it clearer, more transparent, and increased responsibility. So this is all such an eligible target, so please support the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-29-178	Thank you very much. The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for restructuring and amending certain laws for harmonisation until closure. The government referral is T/15993. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice, is the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on restructuring and the harmonisation of certain laws, which is now being discussed in general, is the result of long preparatory work and technical consultation. The proposal goes into the Hungarian legal system as a transposition of the EU directive on the removal of barriers to the free movement of capital and capital. Harmonised regulation of financial difficulties increases investment willingness, and one of the government's key objectives is to overcome the economic problems caused by the pandemic situation, thus the system of assets that can be used in the event of financial difficulties for businesses is now being expanded in the restructuring process, in addition to bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. The restructuring rules shall ensure that, in the event of a finding of financial difficulties, the legal entity carrying out an economic activity has access to effective assistance as soon as possible. Restructuring, as can be seen from the word, can mean any measure ensuring the redesign and restructuring of the operation of the entity. If the proposal is adopted, a service to be provided by the State and accessible by anyone will help the legal person debtors to identify the negative accumulation of their debts and the likelihood of their insolvency. If the debtor recognises that he has been in a financial and economic crisis before his insolvency or that he will not be able to settle his debts within a reasonable period of time, he will have the opportunity to initiate a restructuring procedure. Economic and financial measures taken at the right time can prevent job losses and unnecessary liquidation of the debtor. However, account should also be taken of the interests of the debtor's creditors, in particular if they provide assistance to the debtor during the financial difficulties. Dear Parliament, The proposal introduces the restructuring procedure as a new civil non-court procedure in the Hungarian legal system. The Metropolitan Tribunal will have competence and exclusive competence to carry out proceedings which can only be initiated by the debtor. The restructuring procedure is less formalised than the bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. At the beginning of the proceedings, the debtor shall designate the creditors he intends to involve in the proceedings. These creditors are referred to in the proposal as the creditors concerned. The debtor may request judicial measures in order to ensure the success of the restructuring procedure, but creditors may also request judicial action in the cases specified in the proposal. However, it is important that the use of the court's action is not, as a general rule, compulsory. Thus, the debtor or creditors may decide to request the assistance of a restructuring expert in the proceedings. [[20.00]] Furthermore, the debtor may decide to request a moratorium. Neither the participation of the restructuring expert nor the moratorium is automatic or, as a general rule, an element of the procedure. The court shall order the use of these instruments only if an application is made or, on the basis of the proposal, is binding. An important element of the proposal is that the restructuring procedure may be a so-called trust procedure or a public procedure, depending on the debtor's decision. In the case of a public procedure, a notice of the opening and termination of the restructuring procedure will be published in the Company Communication, so that anyone can know about it. However, if restructuring is carried out as a trust procedure, creditors not included in the procedure will not be informed of the procedure, but it is important that they do not have any claims in jeopardy, because the debtor must comply with the same conditions to them. The trust procedure can eliminate the stigmatizing nature, thereby supporting the success of the restructuring. If the court initiates the restructuring procedure, the debtor shall be given the opportunity to agree with its creditors on measures to overcome its financial difficulties within the time limits laid down in the proposal. The proposal provides for a time frame of one year for the conduct of the restructuring negotiations and the submission to the court of the approved restructuring plan. However, restructuring will still fail during this period if the debtor is unable to ensure progress, minimum creditors' support for the negotiation of the plan. It is important that, in the event of the failure of the restructuring, the court does not order the liquidation of the debtor, and therefore the restructuring is less risky for the undertakings than for the bankruptcy proceedings. However, the restructuring procedure is not an obstacle to the liquidation of the debtor. If the debtor is applied for liquidation either by the creditor concerned or by other creditors, the court which carried out the liquidation shall give a substantive ruling if the legal conditions are met, the debtor shall be subject to winding-up proceedings, given that the possibility of restructuring proceedings does not impair the discipline of payment in business. However, the proposal provides for the suspension of the assessment of the application for winding-up where the debtor is or has already been subject to a moratorium. The suspension shall be extended if, during the moratorium, the debtor submits to the court a restructuring plan adopted by the creditors. Ladies and gentlemen, It is proposed that the debtor and even creditors may request the appointment of a restructuring expert whose main task is to contribute to the preparation of the restructuring plan and to assist in the negotiation with creditors. The expert has an important role to play in creating balance of interests and a guaranteeing role if the debtor's management is also supervised. A restructuring expert may be selected from among the representatives of the winding-up industry. The debtor may also request a moratorium from the court. The moratorium shall have a duration of 4 months, the debtor may ask for an extension of which or for a new moratorium to be imposed. However, after the four-month moratorium, the extension or the imposition of a new moratorium shall be conditional upon the debtor supporting its justification. Creditors may also request the abolition of a moratorium. During the period of the moratorium, claim enforcement against the debtor shall not be initiated. The debtor shall also be entitled to a payment period for his obligations not fulfilled before the moratorium. This moratorium period is intended to ensure that the debtor can use his capacity to negotiate with his creditors and that the acceptance of the restructuring plan by creditors can be successfully carried out. If necessary, it may involve additional resources for the negotiation of the restructuring plan and for the implementation of the restructuring. Dear House, The purpose of the restructuring procedure is directly to adopt the restructuring plan and to approve it by court. The creditors involved in the restructuring should be classified into the classes set out in the proposal. The support of the restructuring plan by creditors does not have to be 100 per cent, but the non-voting creditors may submit a counter-measure at the court approval stage, which may dispute that the restructuring plan is not worse than if their claims were enforced in winding-up proceedings or otherwise. They may also argue that the restructuring plan is not capable of avoiding the insolvency of the debtor. With regard to the directive requirement to be transposed, the proposal also regulates the coercive agreement. The proposal ensures the priority protection of creditors who support the implementation of the restructuring plan during the restructuring negotiations or through the provision of new resources to the debtor. The directive also places great emphasis on the protection of workers' interests. It can be pointed out that employees' claims cannot be included in the restructuring, nor can a moratorium be requested. The proposal sets out different, lighter provisions for debtors who are small and medium-sized enterprises on a number of issues. The aim of these rules is to enable these debtors to successfully carry out their restructuring. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal ensures that not only legal entities are able to resolve their financial difficulties, but also individual entrepreneurs' financial difficulties in the context of a debt settlement procedure. The part of the Directive concerning debt relief concerns self-employed persons. The proposal transposes the provisions of the directive into our legal system by amending the law on debt settlement for natural persons. A key element of this is that, after a three-year debt repayment period, the contractor can receive partial debt relief, resulting in the debtor being granted an extension for mortgages during the three-year repayment period. This is important because most of the cases relate to the debtor's residential property. The exemption will apply to debt under the debt settlement plan over the remaining three-year periods. Dear House, The proposal provides for an opportunity for farmers to conduct their restructuring process in a legal regulatory framework. With the adoption of the proposal, this procedure will be available to businesses as a new option, a pre-insolvency legal instrument, in addition to the insolvency proceedings existing in the current legislation, in order to overcome their financial difficulties. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the bill in agreement with the above objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-29-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Congressman László Salacz, Fidesz, here you go.
u2021-04-29-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In July 2019, the directive on preventive restructuring frameworks, debt discharge and bans and measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and debt discharge procedures entered into force in the European Union. The bill before this House implements the transposition of this directive into Hungarian law. The Directive contains two regulatory areas: restructuring procedures for firms in financial difficulties but not yet insolvent, and debt settlement and debt relief procedures for self-employed natural persons. The legislation concerning legal persons' business is transposed by a new law, the rules for the resolution and de-debt of self-employed persons are amended by the law on the debt settlement of natural persons. In addition, the proposal includes amendments to the basic related laws. The deadline for transposition of the Directive is 16 July 2021, but the Directive allows for an extension of the implementation period by up to one year, so that this bill enters into force on 1 July 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, If a company becomes insolvent, bankruptcy or liquidation will mean the imminent termination of the company in the majority of cases. In part, the new directive offers alternatives to these fatal insolvency proceedings and partly to agreed restructuring. The bill introduces a completely new form of proceedings before the insolvency of firms. The main economic policy objective of the Directive is to address the financial difficulties of fundamentally viable enterprises early, to encourage their recovery and to restore their solvency. Restructuring and restructuring procedures are non-court proceedings of the type prior to insolvency proceedings, in support of combating the financial difficulties of the debtor undertaking, enabling it to pursue its business. The debtor legal person undertaking will only be able to submit a restructuring decision and an application for the opening of the restructuring procedure if it is not already insolvent but is in a position where it can reasonably be assumed that it will not be able to meet its outstanding payment obligations at the time of the due date without taking further measures, i.e. there is a likelihood of insolvency. [[20.10]] The difference between insolvency proceedings is that the restructuring procedure is not necessarily public. The moratorium on payment may also be limited to a part of creditors. In the selection of the restructuring expert, the parties can have a decisive say, unlike liquidation, only the debtor's decision to take advantage of the framework provided by the legislation can be made. This type of procedure in Hungarian legislation has so far been unknown. Dear House, Without a detailed description of the course of the restructuring procedure, the restructuring may be more favourable to the debtor than a insolvency procedure. An opportunity for the debtor to restructure early and avoid the use of formal insolvency proceedings, but it is also capable of significantly reducing losses on the creditor side. Dear Parliament, The aim of the new regulation is to tackle early financial difficulties for businesses, encourage their restructuring and restore their solvency, thereby increasing the country's competitiveness. I believe that due to the financial difficulties caused by the Crown Virus crisis, the adoption of the law can be particularly timely, and therefore the Fidesz Group supports the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-29-182	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of Jobbik is Csaba Gyure. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-29-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A whole new legal institution has come before us with this bill, and I think that when a business is trying to help a state, the European Union, it is definitely useful. Yes, my colleague, who spoke before me, also spoke about the fact that the methods that had already been used for winding up proceedings and bankruptcy proceedings, and at that time they could receive some kind of a payment moratorium in these cases, which usually meant the end of the business, were very often not able to recover from this, and that often meant liquidation, in which a company ceased as a result of liquidation. This is a real need, especially given how difficult it is for entrepreneurs in the Covid situation, and here we are talking primarily about SMEs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, it is very important to create an environment in which they will be able to manage, develop, maintain and stay in the market in the long term. We can also see that those who start a business are not always talking about a professional entrepreneur, they are not always aware of market conditions, they are not always aware of financial requirements, and there are often problems that cause a business to crash quickly enough and it will not work. That's not good in many ways. It's not good for the national economy, because it's out of revenue, and it's not good in the sense that the people there, the people working in the business, they're out of the labour market, they can't find a job, and they're out of work, and they're gonna be unemployed, and then they're gonna need unemployment benefits, job-seeking benefits, and so on. On the other hand, it is not good for the entrepreneur, since after a relatively short career, his business itself will cease. Therefore, it is commendable to do all kinds of activities that try to help businesses not to get to the brink of liquidation, termination, destruction, but to try to help them before they get into this situation. Obviously, when we are talking about a bankruptcy, we are talking about a winding-up procedure, and very often it is too late, or there are no aids that would serve to ensure that the business itself is still alive and that it is able to survive. This is why it is important that this legislation is on the agenda, which is trying to transpose an EU directive into Hungarian case law, which concerns the framework for preventive restructuring, discharge from debt, bans and a more effective increase in restructuring, insolvency and debt discharge procedures. The European Union has envisaged the harmonisation of legislation on two subjects. On the one hand, it concerns the restructuring of legal persons in financial difficulties but not yet insolvent, and on the other, the debt settlement and debt relief procedure for individuals. We are obviously talking about the first in this first case, so this is primarily about the undertaking of legal persons and, in addition to avoiding bankruptcy, it is therefore necessary to develop this procedure. It is necessary to establish a procedure in which the role of the court is limited, but it is possible for the debtor companies to receive a certain moratorium on payment, and this moratorium should not only be about being exempted for a certain period of time, but also a greater chance that those who have granted the loan, to whom this ominous company belongs, will have access to the amount that this company owes it after a period of time. Obviously, in this context, the European Union directive provides a wide range of opportunities for the legislator to bring these opportunities into national law in all countries. Thus, the specific nature of the restructuring is that the debtor requests a certain moratorium and, in certain cases, he may receive this payment moratorium. Who can turn to this opportunity? Businesses in difficulty, where both the debtor and the creditor want to cooperate in establishing a restructuring plan and adopting what can be implemented, are feasible and is in everyone's interest. The company must be able to repay its debts in the future. If these conditions are transformed and, in this case, there will be consistency between the debtor and the creditors, it would like to create this excellent condition and facilitate this legislation so that the debt can be paid. There is a very large range of possibilities, the legislation broadly defines the possibilities for how many days, how to apply for this, what are the conditions for this application. It may be a 90-day moratorium, but it may be less than that, in the longest case, when these moratoriums are extended, it may be for a maximum period of one year. It is important that restructuring experts are introduced into this system. The task of the restructuring experts is to continuously assist this process, and this may include the supervision of the debtor's management. Obviously, if a good financial plan has been drawn up and the company keeps to it, manages rationally, does not exceed a reasonable workforce, the value for money has also been rationally trained, it will not normally be done to bankrupt itself. Obviously, there are special cases, such as the closed hosts, the hosts because of Covid, and the insolvency may occur with the most careful management, but in the event that we do not talk about this, but in the case of an average situation, the assistance of a restructuring expert may be a starting point for the company itself to go on the right path, and in such a debt settlement process, obviously, the company itself can learn a lot, and also the manager of the company, in how to manage its management in such a way that it does not become bankrupt, need not need another restructuring procedure in the future, should not go bankrupt, nor should it be wound up, because in a functioning company, continuous operation is clearly the goal, and this is the most important thing for everyone. [[20.20]] The debtor may ask the court for non-court proceedings here to be designated by the Metropolitan Court, which will act in this regard, so that the Metropolitan Court will have national jurisdiction in this regard, and it will also have the opportunity to take a decision with coercive effect across creditors' classes, thereby approving the restructuring plan. The restructuring plan sets out the rights and obligations of the debtor and the creditor. Obviously, if such a plan is adopted, then the duty of cooperation is very important. I think that, by the way, the duty of cooperation, which is already playing with the idea of the restructuring plan and initiating the procedure for this, is obviously the duty of cooperation with him, or is willing to do so, because he is undertaking this procedure in order to clarify the financial position of his own company in order to remove this standing position from his company or from its declining position, and indeed put this company on a rising path. I believe that any activity on the part of the legislator which helps businesses, businesses to survive, the preservation of the solvency of businesses in any form, whether in this form, must be supported in any way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2021-04-29-184	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP is Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If you're missed, there's nothing you can do but come. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski's name.]] Excuse me, I was supposed to inform the public, which is why I couldn't be here for a little while. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 July 2019 on preventive restructuring frameworks, debt discharge and bans and measures to increase the effectiveness of restructuring, insolvency and debt discharge procedures entered into force in the European Union in July 2019, including amendments to the 2017 Directive. In this context, it makes it a task for Member States to transpose the rules on restructuring and debt relief into national law. Accordingly, the Directive regulates the restructuring procedure of firms in financial difficulties but not yet insolvent and the procedure for the resolution and de-debting of self-employed natural persons. The adoption of the new regulation will amend the debt settlement and debt relief rules for self-employed workers, the 2015 CV on debt settlement for natural persons. Law and related laws necessary for the harmonisation of laws. Restructuring and restructuring procedures are non-court proceedings of the type prior to insolvency proceedings, in support of combating the financial difficulties of the debtor undertaking, to enable business to continue. The debtor legal person undertaking will only be able to submit an application for a restructuring decision and for the opening of a restructuring procedure if it is not already insolvent but is in a position where it can reasonably be assumed that it will not be able to meet its outstanding payment obligations at the time of the due date without taking further measures, so that there is a likelihood of insolvency. In addition, it is important to note that the adoption of the Directive has not brought about the unification of the notion of insolvency and insolvency in the European Union; their codification remains the responsibility of the Member States. On the basis of the Directive, the legislator of the Member States should ensure that at least one debt settlement procedure can be used by self-employed insolvent individuals under which they can benefit from debt relief under certain conditions. As a general rule under the Directive, the exemption from debt should be granted by the law of the Member States to self-employed persons who are insolvent after a period of up to three years of debt repayment. In order to comply with this Directive, the rules on the settlement of debts of natural persons are added in so far as, under the exception arrangements provided for in the Directive, the three-year exemption period does not become the main rule, as this debtor entrepreneur may be unfavourable to private individuals, since he is unable to make the required repayment in three years. According to the bill, on the basis of the repayment of other debts not secured by mortgages, the court will issue the discharge decision on these debts after three years. The repayment of the mortgage is suspended during this period and, on the basis of the effectiveness of the period to be completed, it is also possible to issue the exemption decision in this respect after another two years. This solution will help to avoid the need to dispose of mortgaged immovable property and to obtain an extension to pay the capital part of the overdue loan debt. The purpose of the bill is also to allow the self-employed debtor to retain the assets necessary for the exercise of his business and not to sell them during the debt settlement procedure. The KDNP fraction supports the transposition of the EU Restructuring Directive and the related legislative harmonisation amendments. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Salacz and Dr. Pál Völner applaud.]]
u2021-04-29-186	Thank you very much. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here.
u2021-04-29-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposal is essentially aimed at transposing a court-martial procedure for EU legislation on restructuring. I've been told that before. In the first point, it is worth reviewing exactly what the objective of EU legislation is. In two areas, the EU legislator wishes to harmonise legislation: restructuring firms that are in financial difficulties but are not yet insolvent, and the second is the debt settlement and debt relief procedure for self-employed individuals. However, the proposal is specifically aimed at restructuring businesses and will be transferred to Hungarian law by transposing specific rules for private entrepreneurs. In this context, the aim of the proposal can be summarised as avoiding bankruptcy in close-ups. Using the possibilities provided for by the Directive, the proposal does not extend the scope of the restructuring to employees' claims and claims for damages to the debtor if it concerns the natural person. The reason for this is to protect the interests of eligibility to be respected, so that their responsibilities are fully paid during the restructuring. The proposal also includes amendments to the private institution. The aim of the regulation is to ensure that a number of measures of private bankruptcy can also be applied to self-employed persons, such as, for example, that wages can be allocated from the Wage Guarantee Fund to the self-employed, even if they become insolvent. At this point, it is important to review the situation of the legislation in Hungary today. 2021. In the 16th week, a total of 185 companies were listed in the weekly liquidation list, 192 companies in the weekly liquidation list, and 1 additional company was on the weekly bankruptcy list. That's a total of 378 companies. It can therefore be said that relatively many companies are affected by the termination or the procedure for payment difficulties. This is significant, in particular with regard to the fact that the cessation and possible slowness of judicial proceedings due to the virus may result in a number of such procedures being postponed. EU legislation on the basis of the proposal before us was born in 2019, and although the transposition deadline was indeed July 2021, there is a reason why Parliament is discussing this now. The economic difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic would have justified a procedure that could help businesses to maintain their solvency and operation. For this reason, this proposal was incredibly late in the second year of the coronal virus epidemic, and it proves once again that although the government had unlimited legal powers to deal with the coronal virus epidemic, they did not do everything they could to avoid the consequences. The delay and absence of business support is not new, so in Hungary companies received the least wage support in the EU on the basis of last year's data, even the paid wage subsidies were delayed. [[20.30]] Several months had to wait for the wage support established, and at the beginning of 2021 several tens of billions of forints of wage subsidies were stuck, which could not be allocated. The allocation of these subsidies was so slow that even the government spokesperson criticized it in a statement. It has also occurred that the government would have had the opportunity, but it has not called off EU wage support funds for a while. In addition to such delays, it is not surprising that the proposal contained in this proposal has also arrived late before the Parliament, but it would be gratifying if the government provided real and immediate support to businesses instead of protecting their own family oligarchs and organizing public wealth in foundations filled with their own people. Therefore, we continue to demand several times that 80% of wage support should basically be awarded to entrepreneurs, workers, and we have made a lot of proposals, like 100 per cent of sick money, for those who have been infected by the Covid virus, or perhaps have to be quarantined. Regardless of the fact that we are discussing a late law here, we must say that we are discussing a late amendment, but we must fundamentally support the amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-29-188	Thank you very much. Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski, DK, here you go.
u2021-04-29-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposal that is before us is about the fact that there are legal persons businesses, companies, if you like, and there are business individuals who are in a difficult situation, their business is in a difficult situation, and this proposal would now be created by transposing a directive, but it would create an option that has not existed so far, and that might help them to stay on their feet and to continue working. The proposal does bring in new things, and therefore many questions arise as to how this will work in practice. To mention just a few of these problems, concerns, questions, I would rather put it this way, for example, it may be a problem if the person, say more banks, lends money, and the banks may have a rivalry or a problem with which strategy they would consider appropriate for that entrepreneur, that company, because, in fact, it is actually a matter of agreeing what happens to that company, that business now; if it doesn't happen, let's say, between creditor banks this type of agreement or they don't move in the same direction, then indeed, however useful or effective this solution would be for that particular company, it will not happen, and it will be either insolvency or the company will go bankrupt. It is also a novelty, and it is difficult for us to judge a new institution how this will affect the processes in practice with regard to this particular restructuring expert. There are several types of people or multiple types of experts here, so it is not the profession that is decisive here, but to understand that area; it is, therefore, going to receive an award, which is also included in the proposal that it can be up to 4 percent of the balance sheet total. Again, I say that the practice will show that this will not be long before 4 percent of the balance sheet of a major company will be a significant sum, I tell you right away. Of course, it is possible and it is now not foreseen that the expertise that this expert will have is worth as much as this particular 4 percent, which will be your prize, or up to 4 percent, exactly, but this is in question right now, we cannot judge this. However, it is important, and the most important thing about the whole bill is that in many cases in recent years we have met companies and entrepreneurs who have faced a moment's difficulty, and that if there had been such an instrument, if there had been such a solution, they would have had a chance to survive, had a chance to save their business and govern in a new direction; but this did not happen, and it was not possible, and the story ended in bankruptcy. Now, when the Covid epidemic has caused so many to face persistent economic problems for a year now, so many businesses in the former law have already talked about private people who are in a bad situation, we are all talking about companies and entrepreneurs, we all know such things, we could list a lot of stories where even a thriving business or an individual entrepreneur has lost his position in one blow, as he has done an activity that has caused this particular good situation, and is therefore close to bankruptcy or bankruptcy, so that an acute problem may be dealt with by this solution. Therefore, the many, many uncertainties that are natural in a new situation, when a new institution is introduced, despite the many, many uncertainties, we think that this is a step in the right direction, it is a good proposal, and we hope that this will also take a good step into practice, so we will also support the adoption of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2021-04-29-190	Come on. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, and no one has yet applied for any further speeches, so I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the floor. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-29-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your statements of support, and I will look forward to your support in the vote as well. Thank you. [[Applause, applause.]]
u2021-04-29-192	Thank you very much. The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. The speeches following the agenda will follow. [[It's a short break.]] I am waiting because I have just used a plural number, but according to the rules of the Hungarian language it must be coordinated with this reality, and I see Mr Ádám Steinmetz as a representative only of the candidates for the post-scheduled speech. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: He's coming!]] He's coming. That's a nice thing to say. [[Gergely Kálló enters the Chamber.]] Ah, Congressman Kálló. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: Here he is!]] Yes, always be right. Since Mr Kálló is so early in the order, I ask for understanding and agreement; unfortunately, from this situation, from above, I simply cannot see Mr Kóló [[Gergely Kálló: I'm here!]] So a loud [[Defiance. Gergely Kálló: I'm here!]] Very good, thank you very much. I'm really barely... That's exactly the point of the room I can't see. Congressman Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Last Tuesday, I had the opportunity to speak between Parliament's walls, I spoke before the agenda, and Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör was entitled to reply. I gave him a long list of problems at the Dunaferr, at the Iron Works. I told him that the collective agreement had been terminated in an unprecedented manner, and I told him that since September, iron workers have been paid in two instalments and late. I also told him that not so long ago, on a Friday night, an army of five hundred security guards appeared on the border of our city, and that it was only thanks to the police that those people could not make it to the Ironworks. Secretary of State Dömötör called these facts false news and declared it false news with noble simplicity. Secretary of State, what's the fake news? Is it false news that the workers get paid in two installments and late? [[20.40]] Fake news from the private army of 500 people? Fake news about the termination of the collective agreement? Because if that's false news to you, then there's a very big problem. Do you know what fake news I'd like to read? The hardware guys asked the government for help, but it didn't help. The Iron Trade Unions asked the government for help, but it didn't help. Oh, they're not fake news, they're mere facts. Well, shame on you. We're talking 4,500 jobs, 10,000 families, and so far you haven't crossed a rogue blade of grass. One thing is, if there is a solution in the Ironworks, and the light at the end of the tunnel is visible, you will have nothing to do with it. Don't come for parades, they don't belong there. The other thing that was said on Tuesday and I have to respond to it. You know, I've been a Member of Parliament for quite a short time, but in this short time, I've experienced a lot of things in this horseshoe. But what Mr. Máté Kocsis said on Tuesday, I have never experienced anything more disgusting and disgusting. Máté Kocsis wanted to prove the opposition's alleged anti-vaccination by talking about two dead municipal representatives who did not submit the vaccine because we talked him out of it. One of the city council representatives was my friend, Éva Tulassy. It is not my duty to protect DK, nor do DK need my protection, but I will protect my friend and fellow Member when you try to discredit him with lies and use him for lies without protecting yourself. Zséda, all of us's Zséda has complied with all the disease control regulations, and he hasn't set foot out of his home when he's banned. She was the first to take the vaccine, and she was the first to receive the vaccine she was offered. Despite all this, he has unfortunately passed away. And you don't respect that. You lie about using this terrible death to increase your popularity. I'm not telling you to apologize because self-criticism doesn't describe you. But I'm asking you to be ashamed and stop this disgusting death campaign, and not to accuse or insult the members of our communities, especially if you can't protect yourself. What you've done is disgusting. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-29-194	For a post-meeting speech, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, asked what is the problem with the University of Physical Education? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-04-29-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What's the problem with the University of Physical Education? Because there is a problem, because we have to see that in the TF, which is a higher education institution with a history of nearly 100 years; in its maiden name, I say that something is wrong with TF, because, like rural universities, it is now undergoing a model change, it will operate in a new structure in the future. We don't understand what this is about. The sports jargon says we shouldn't change a winning team. And now there's been a serious change. And is the problem in the institution led by former excellent handball federal captain, Rector Lajos Mocsai, with the level of education, or with the infrastructure background of TF, or with the teachers who taught there, the former professors who taught there, or are currently teaching there, such as Béla Fekete, Sándor Eckschmiedt, József Dubecz, Gábor Pavlik, or even Mihal Musbek, Ferenc Dénes, who were my teachers and who made it difficult to obtain a diploma? I'm proud to be a student of TF, proud to have two degrees in my mother's footsteps and in my father's footsteps. I dare say that this is a European-level university. And now we see that the Fidesz Parliament, the Fidesz politicians, together with two independent representatives who have close relations with Fidesz, voted in favour of the change of model resulting in the TF under the direction of a trust fund appointed by a minister of the Fidesz government and managed by Fidesz persons who have good relations. This, of course, brings with it the fact that 18 properties owned by TF, the value of which is estimated to be tens of billions of forints, are not even sold at any moment. I think it is impossible to privatise public money, public wealth in this way. But at least it's so unacceptable to consider that the University of Physical Education is basically a training institution. Here, besides gym teachers, they still train coaches, mostly sports managers and sports psychologists, professionals who are going to raise our children, our grandchildren, all with a good conscience, sufficient preparation, humility and professionalism, but it doesn't matter what world view they're going to do. We think that the fact that TF is out of state control is a huge mistake, because teacher training and training must in any way remain under state control in the future. It is also highly suspicious that the current management of the TF, the Senate, has asked Minister Palkovic for a change of model and Parliament to vote in favour of the law in this way, the Senate which is now confined to the administration of the institution. It is very strange, because then the question arises that these people were not satisfied with their own work. So the question arises as to what is the problem with TF, why it had to be changed, why this change of model was necessary. It's highly suspicious that the Fidesz government may have given them an irrefutable offer to the TF leaders. Or is it simply that the Fidesz is preparing for its fall in 2022, and that it seeks to convert its power in this way, and to disguise the loyal ones in this way, so that it can go to the expense of our children and grandchildren? Because if that's the real reason, it's a shame, and we're not gonna let that happen. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-29-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
