u2021-02-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. Extraordinary session of the Parliament is now in session. I would like to inform you that, today, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs are going to help me. Dear House, I declare that 51 Members are members of the Parliament Act 35. H/14655. on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to monitor the management of the economic crisis Proposal for a Decision; H/14728 on the establishment of an investigation committee on the failure of government treatment of a coronal virus epidemic Proposal for a Decision; H/14723 on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry for the Procurement and Authorisation of Chinese Coronary Virus Vaccines not authorised by the European Medicines Agency Proposal for a Decision; and the 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. T/13245. For the purpose of negotiating bill No 1. The letter and its annex were all available on the House's website. The Extraordinary Meeting was convened by the Speaker of Parliament as requested today. First, the speeches before the agenda will take place. Dear House, For a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group, Ms Szabó Timea, Head of Group on Current Affairs, has applied. Here you go.
u2021-02-01-1	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, We have called today's Parliament meeting to give the government an account of the disease management, to report on the chaos that it has done in health care, vaccine and vaccination treatment and in the management of the economy. Millions, even the whole country, are affected by this issue. Compared to this, there were zero representatives from the Fidesz-KDNP ranks. [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Shame!]] The fact that so many people came shows that Fidesz-KDNP doesn't give a damn about people's problems, how many people died, how many hundreds of thousands of families have been in a hopeless situation, how many entrepreneurs, including thousands of hosts, have been ruined, or how many nurses and doctors have gone into overtime over the past few months. The absence of Fidesz-KDNP means that the government does not give a damn about the problem of millions of people. I wouldn't sit back if I were Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. According to KSH, November 2020 was the deadliest month of the last 20 years: 61 percent more people died than a year ago. December 2020 was the second worst month of the last 20 years in this respect: in November and December, 11 thousand more died than in the previous year. Compared to this, the official Covid death at this time was 7780, so 3300 people died without Covid only at the end of the year. This could mean two things: either the government cheated on the Covid death statistics, or 3,300 people died because the health care system collapsed, and they couldn't perform the procedures or surgeries they needed. Only in my own circle were two people who were forced to pay 600,000 forints in a private hospital, and one of them had to perform a gallbladder surgery on himself because they couldn't take care of them in the state hospital. Compared to this, the Minister of Health, Miklós Kásler, is busy putting together King Matthias Kásler, while three thousand people can be prevented from dying. But we know that it is no coincidence that Viktor Orbán will leave this amok run. We know that with this diversion, Mr Orbán thinks that we will not deal with the important issue at that time, including what they have done in the name of economic protection. According to the government, HUF 3628 billion was spent in total economic protection, but according to expert calculations, at best, 900 billion forints were actually spent to help people, i.e. 24 percent of the total. So 76 percent of the money to protect the economy was stolen by the government. These funds migrated to the oligarchs of Fidesz, forints 2500 billion not to the people, but to Viktor Orbán, Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz, László Szíjj and their own slepp. Let's just look at the caterers who asked for a total of HUF 27 billion in wage support. Of this, the government was able to pay 7 billion forints, and 20 billion forints have not yet arrived. From HUF 3600 billion, Viktor Orbán did not have time to pay HUF 27 billion to save tens of thousands of hosts and their families from bankruptcy. I'll tell you what Viktor Orbán paid for instead: HUF 21 billion to the churches at the end of the year, HUF 95 billion to the expropriated Tihanyi Foundation, HUF 18 billion to Lőrinc Mészáros hotels, or HUF 43 billion to be spent on sports investments. They could not pay 27 billion forints to the caterers, but they were able to pay 43 billion forints for sports investments. After that, Viktor Orbán still has the nerve to ask the hosts for patience. Interestingly, why do we never hear Viktor Orbán ask Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz, Rachel Orbán or his other friends or football teams for patience? Why does Viktor Orbán never ask for patience, why do millions of Hungarians only have to wait for minimum help? ! In addition, we know that after the request, they were even well threatened that they would be punished, so that a NER knight would go there and buy them up like vultures. Do you know what they call you Fidesz-KDNP in a more decent place? It's a gang of mobsters. The Orbán government is a gang of criminals, where the unbridled theft is the master, but we will put an end to it, and we will drive it away in 22 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the government of inhumanity, and we give people freedom, democracy and prosperity back. Thank you.
u2021-02-01-2	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. From the Group of the LMP, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the facts, Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-01-3	Thank you very much for the floor. I thought the government was responding to the speech before the previous agenda. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: The government is lost.]] But let me begin, Mr President, because Hungary is drifting unstoppably towards disaster. It drifts unstoppably, and we do not see the government taking any meaningful steps to prevent this disaster from happening. This is because even in the middle of this critical period, the Hungarian government is doing nothing but giving subsidies to its own friends, the economic interest groups that are close to it, while the economic operators that really need it do not receive this support. Today, hundreds of thousands of workers, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary are on the verge of being and not being, and we have no doubt that we are not only talking about hundreds of thousands of people here, millions of people who are in a much worse situation today, and who need it, but who do not receive help, even though there is a possibility and a source of meaningful help to help them. The basis for this is a regular wage subsidy, which should be much wider both in scale and availability, and if it had opposition leadership in this country, it would be much wider than what the Fidesz government provides. In practice, the Fidesz government should implement subsidies where the wage subsidies are not actually paid ex post, since when the income of an undertaking is liquidated outside its own fault, it will not be able to lend these amounts. [[13.10]] In addition, this support could and should be distributed so that the NAV cannot put its hands on this in zero seconds. It would be important to help them to pay fixed costs in the form of grants, and it would be extremely important to introduce income replacement aid for self-employed and small business owners, since they are not employees, they are trying to make their own livelihoods, as they have done so far and now. And for a very long time, the opposition has been calling for a significant increase in the length and extent of unemployment aid, because in such a crisis, we cannot let go of our fellow countrymen in need. But what do we see compared to that? We see that the government spends a total of a few billion forints on wage support, the availability of this is quite minimal, and it is also worth looking at how the few who have made an attempt to obtain these grants. First of all, it is important to know that the most important thing in the operation of a company is the purchase of raw materials and supplies, as this is the basis of its operation; then it is necessary to finance the rent, since the public utility operators operating on a market basis will provide the service only on this basis; this is followed by the payment of employees; and then the first tax forints can be paid by an undertaking, without the entrepreneur having earned a single forint. What does the Orbán government spend on? They're really just excerpts, because they could be classified at length. To modernize the Groupama Arena, which was handed over less than five years ago, is HUF 3 billion. Forint 43 billion for the development of sports facilities, which is probably not important to anyone but some Vasas fans right now. A top international sports event strategy of HUF 8 billion. Church budget contributions of HUF 15 billion. National infocommunication strategy: HUF 15 billion. Lőrinc Mészáros, Hunguest Hotel for almost 18 billion HUF. But you could also mention 1.5 billion of the Badacsony Volan Pension or 23 billion HUF for TV2. I think that no one should doubt why this is so. In practice, the tax collectors of poverty will soon appear, which means that in the place of bled-out tourism, all the business circles close to the government will crawl in, financed with public money, and they will buy the entire sector, they will make the whole sector impossible, only they can remain, one who can survive, and the government will tell you that. I think that we rightly demand that the Hungarian Government provide meaningful assistance to our fellow countrymen, small and medium-sized enterprises, who live here. Thank you.
u2021-02-01-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Mr Ágnes Vadai is coming from the DK Group with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-01-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I can see how important the fate of the country is to the members of the panic government and to the members of the Fidesz, and they are just moving around in this Chamber. Of course, I can understand that they didn't come in; even as a fidesz, considering the government failures of the last few months, it's not easy to carry that on the face. To be honest, it is quite shocking that the Prime Minister, in his propaganda interview last Friday, threatened Hungarian citizens in Kossuth Radio. Of course, it must be noted that the government is not responsible for the outbreak, but it is responsible for what is happening in this country. It is his fault and it is the Prime Minister's fault that those working in the catering and tourism industry can now only hope that they can open up slowly, because they are essentially not getting any help from the government. It doesn't occur to them that this testo-type, unviable government will help them. These people aren't stupid, they can see it. How long has it been since they got help? March 2020, ten months ago. Why, then, would anyone be surprised to think that these people, who were protesting yesterday, would come to the government for help? The key to their survival is that they can open up. Then, of course, and here it was said, the restaurants, ice cream shops, cafés, confectioneries, or hotels, and the royal family, the son-in-law, the talented gas mechanic and all the other criminals will want to get them at a price. And then, after such a non-government, after a lack of an indispensable crisis management, the Prime Minister comes and threatens Hungarians instead of helping them. It would help them with the money that these people paid into the Hungarian state register, by the way. The Prime Minister is in a big debauchery when he thinks he's threatening us right now. However, one thing must be clear: the Hungarians did their job during the epidemic. Health workers, social workers, postmen, trade workers, bakers, couriers, municipalities have done their job often in place of the government, and they have done their job in catering and tourism when they could. Hungarian parents did their job, fighting with online education, pensioners suffering from inflation and Hungarian families did their job. One person did not do his job in this country: Viktor Orbán. 'Cause I'm asking you, was there any real crisis here? No, it wasn't. Was there a substantial state wage substitute here? No, it wasn't. Was there a substantial, no, non-refundable grant not for the fidesz oligarchs, but for honest Hungarian businesses? No, it wasn't. Was there a government here? No, it wasn't. And it's all Viktor Orbán's fault. Of course, he had a measure. 18 billion forints to Lőrinc Mészáros, 51 billion forints to his six favorite oligarchs; money to Dubai billionaires, friends across the border, football to the church. The only ones he didn't get were the ones he needed. They didn't get to those who did their job anyway. By the way, it was Viktor Orbán who was indebted to this country by HUF 7000 billion, and at the same time we see that the crisis management that has always been talked about has not happened in Hungary. We shouldn't have been fighting with the local governments over the past few years, we should have prepared the country. It wasn't supposed to be yachting on the Adriatic. It was supposed to be a vaccination plan. Not to lie, to forge statistics and keep secrets, but to talk to Hungarian people in a normal, adult way, and not to steal everything in this country until the last twist, when it is the hardest situation, and to wait for which industry will crack, so that Orbán and his family can be named, but to be excused! You should've steered, helped. If this help had happened, the hosts, teachers, Hungarian families, artists and entrepreneurs would not be rebelling now. We must not threaten those whom the Prime Minister has betrayed, and we must not wave a staff in front of them, but we must stand before them and say, yes, Viktor Orbán is a fallen Prime Minister who has been buried under the plague and crisis. Admitting that the Orbán government, when faced for the first time with a real challenge in its history, collapsed like the Hungarian conservative Christian democracy on József Szájer's gutter in Brussels. Thank you. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2021-02-01-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group of the MSZP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-02-01-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, who have come to this meeting today! The country is full of fidesz blue posters, right, there's money for it, giant posters always have money on which you can read that all life matters. Ladies and gentlemen, This message is true, every life matters, but from the mouth of Fidesz it is a terrible lie, because for Fidesz this sentence does not end. This sentence from the mouth of Fidesz sounds like all life matters, comma, except for the elderly, except for those who are unemployed, except those who live under the minimum wage, except for those who are caterers, workers in the social sector, workers in trade, tourism, cultural sectors, residents in the capital and non-fidesz-led settlements. The line could continue for a long time, fellow Members, but it is also millions of people. [[13.20]] If all life matters to the Fidesz regime, then explain why they let the plague explode in the fall. They had football matches in front of thousands of people. They let schools become center points of infection for weeks. It wasn't free and mass testing, and there was no strict contact research. The Fidesz government has done nothing to prevent the spread of the infection, because, let's face it, free parking and airline compressions don't make any sense. Unfortunately, more than 12,500 victims prove that today. Whatever is written on the posters, let us not forget that Viktor Orbán has decided that the economy is more important than protecting people's lives. Therefore, Fidesz government members were yachting on the waves of the Adriatic instead of preparing for the second wave of the plague. There has been an epidemic, an economic crisis and a livelihood crisis, and Viktor Orbán and his ministers have simply failed people. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't tell me there's no money for crisis management. Don't tell me you don't have the authority to take emergency measures. If there was money in the Economic Protection Fund for hunting exhibitions, space exploration, stadium construction and thousands of other things that had nothing to do with crisis management, why didn't you get the job search support increased so that you could have at least HUF 100,000 net for at least nine months? Why didn't he get 100 percent sick so people wouldn't infect each other at work just because they were afraid that if they stayed home, they'd have less money? Why didn't you double your family allowance, your maternity allowance, your child and your child? And why didn't you catch up on the low pensions? Why didn't you get real job protection? There is money if Viktor Orbán's friend, Mészáros, is not a stróman.Lőrinc needs help from our tax forints. But the little pubs, museums, theaters that were forced to shut down don't want these subsidies to arrive. Notice, people go out on the street during an epidemic because they can't make a living. If all life matters, pay the support needed to survive to the catering sector! You have to fight the virus, not the bartender, the waiter, the cook. Measures can be taken to help this nearly 600,000 people survive by preventing the spread of the virus. There's a billboard, but there's still no honest talk about registration, vaccination plans, mass vaccinations. We still don't know when educators, civil servants, trade workers will take place. We're rooting for more vaccines as soon as possible. We see how Peter Szijjártó's crew is busy getting everything they need, whether it's the Russian vaccine or the Russian pen. But the vaccine cannot be fed, fellow Members. Necessary families, pensioners can't wait months. And, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go without saying that in the shadow of the plague, the Fidesz regime wishes to suppress another free voice. One of the areas of free voice provision is the Klubradio. And now they're going to use regulatory means to strip him of his frequency. The Fidesz regime could have proved today that there was a misunderstanding in the law, and the amendment of the law would give Klubradio an opportunity to transmit further. But now everyone can see what the real goal was: that the Clubradio should shut up; that the Clubradio should lose its frequency. It's a shame what you're doing! Ladies and gentlemen, The fidesz orange rotted. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's time to throw him out as soon as possible. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2021-02-01-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group, Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech before the agenda entitled "Active Affairs." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-02-01-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to start today with a little bit of good news, because it is the first day of the cycle when we do not have to listen to lying and cynical government answers. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks: Long live! Delight and applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] However, this good news is actually a bad news, because it means that 133 of the bravest Hungarians today decided not to come to work. They seem to like to work and work when it comes to the distribution of EU proposals in a steam bath, and work when you have to call the other foreign minister on a luxury yacht. But when it's time for work, they don't show up. There would be a layer in Hungary today that would like to work, and for this reason today will be protesting and protesting: the hosts, those working in tourism. They are forbidden to work, unlike 133 of the bravest Hungarians, to whom no one has forbidden him to be here and to talk about the committees of inquiry that the opposition has proposed. We wanted to set up a committee of inquiry on three important issues so that we could ask the questions that the government has been shutting down for a year now in government information and Parliament's response. These are questions on which we have been looking for answers for a year. And to say a few things about these questions, let's start with economic questions. How can hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today feel simply abandoned by the government? How can the workers of tourism and catering feel that while other states are helping workers in the same sector, their state, their government, doesn't give a damn about their ideas? We would also have expected an answer as to why there is no 80% wage compensation in Hungary; why it is possible to achieve this in other countries, not in Hungary. Jobbik, as a right-wing party of the opposition, suggested that there should be compensation or, by the way, a regulated and secure reopening in these sectors, and that details be developed, as could be done in other countries. We were also waiting for an answer on exactly how much money was spent to help small and micro enterprises. And while we're at it, explain to me how one of the richest Arab billionaires in the world may have had hotel support, the Arab billionaire who supported and welcomed Angela Merkel and Juncker's plan at the beginning of migration. In this case, the subsidies that should have been used for simple Hungarian businesses go to this man. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] We are also waiting for an answer as to how it could have happened that 20 billion dollars have been slipping since November and not being paid to businesses. We also want an answer to the question that there is an extension if the NAV knocks on their door, the landlord knocks on their door, and everyone who wants to receive money, and how they can cover it. The Hungarian government did not provide for this either. But there are also health issues that have never been clarified. What, for example, is in the vaccination plan you created? Is it true that footballers need to get shots before cops and firefighters? [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] It includes how much money has been spent and how much will be spent on, for example, Chinese or Russian vaccines, because we don't even know how much money will be spent. Or does it say where they got it, how much for respirators? Do your accounts show where it is, and you won't have the same business with the vaccine as you did with the ventilators? And we would also like to know why there is a death surplus that has brought the most severe mortality rate of all time, not all time, but in the last 21 years. In the last two decades, never so many Hungarians have died! And they can't even account for the surplus, which was beyond the corona virus cause of death. No one's gonna say a word about this. Just as they won't say anything about how we're gonna make up for the missed medical-patient meetings that come from the emergency health system. Make public the costs of the vaccination, make public the costs of the purchases. That's all we expected, and that's what we wanted to ask you, but you've got deaf ears. It is certain, and it should also be clarified, especially by Viktor Orbán, who has become the poster face of the Chinese vaccine. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] We know he doesn't have a plan "B," but he does have a plan "A," if he does need a plan "B." Because we can't go with the vaccine the way he went with the American presidential election, where he fell as bad as Rottenbiller. (Development in Jobbik's ranks. ) Overall, it is clear that both the pro-government representatives and the government have fled from the answers today. They're on the run, they've got something to hide, so it doesn't prove they didn't help anyone but your friends. They have something to hide, because Viktor Orbán said in the fall that they would save everyone who got sick. Viktor Orbán lied. They have something to hide because there was no professional plan. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Now they can get away with investigating committees, but in 2022, there will be a time when they will have to give them an answer. Jobbik, as the right-wing people's party, will take care of this, and we will guarantee that. Thank you very much. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Bravo! That's right. Applause.]] [[13.30]]
u2021-02-01-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform you that President János Áder has sent the Parliament transcripts of the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs to publish the transcripts of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
u2021-02-01-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Virtually I tell you that a letter has been sent to the President of the Parliament, Mr László Kövér. I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Imrét Ágostházy, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, was exempted from this mandate with effect from 31 December 2020 and Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Prime Minister's proposal, Dr. Szabolcs Ágostházy Imré was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 1 January 2021. Sincerely: János Áder
u2021-02-01-12	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the basis of Article 5 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. János Bóka, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, was exempted from this mandate with effect from the date of 14 January 2021, while Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. Mr János Bóka was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Government Office with effect from 15 January 2021 on the proposal of the Prime Minister. Sincerely: János Áder [[Gergely Harvesto, as he applauds, Bravo!]] Paragraph 3 (j) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 205. On the basis of Article 5 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. János Bóka, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, was exempted from this mandate with effect from the date of 14 January 2021, while Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. Mr János Bóka was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Government Office with effect from 15 January 2021 on the proposal of the Prime Minister. Sincerely: János Áder. (Gergely Arató, while applauding: Bravo!)
u2021-02-01-13	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I'll inform the Parliament. [[Intervention from DK's ranks: Another Secretary of State?! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Secretary of State for CSOK...! Gergely Arató: We still want secretary of state! Defiance.]] Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 205. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Anita Boros and Dr. Péter Kaderják, State Secretarys of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, were relieved of this mandate with effect from 15 January 2021. Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 202. § 2 and Article 205 On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 15 January 2021, and was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology with effect from 16 January 2021. Sincerely: János Áder
u2021-02-01-14	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Oskar Ökrös as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 28 January 2021. Sincerely: János Áder [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Oskar Ökrös as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 28 January 2021. Sincerely: János Áder. (Gergely Arató intervenes.)
u2021-02-01-15	Thank you very much, notaries. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that a motion for the waiver of the immunity of Mrs Szabó Timea, Member of Parliament, was received on 16 December 2020, 16.Bpk.1800/2020/4. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. In addition, on 17 December 2020 a motion to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament, Mr Simonka, was received, KSB.3682/2019/13-I. in charge of the prosecution of the prosecution of a bribery of the Attorney General. The President of the Parliament has issued the motions for examination to the Committee on immunity. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It is a visible majority, but I am obliged to state that the Parliament is not a quorum. [[It's grumpy.]] I would also like to announce that Mr György Balla and Mr Imre Vejkey have by letter initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine; this is also necessary because I have to post a list of missing persons. In accordance with the motion, I now ask the Parliament with respect and accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has 52 yeses, 1 non-votes and one abstention. [[Laszlo Varju reporting.]] That's how I'm gonna make a list of missing people. Mr Zoltán Balczó asked for the floor in order of business.
u2021-02-01-16	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-02-01-17	[[For signal:]] Yeah, I'm sorry. Before that, Congressman László Varju asked for the floor.
u2021-02-01-18	[[Without microphone:]] Thank you very much. With regard to the vote, I would like to point out that this machine did not work, or at least it does not appear to be working on it.
u2021-02-01-19	Then I would also like to ask you to add Mr László Varju to the list of voters with a vote in favour. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] On a case-by-case basis, Mr Zoltán Balczó has applied. Here you go.
u2021-02-01-20	My point of order is, in fact, a point of order. For decades, it has been an unbroken practice of the Hungarian Parliament that, if its former representative has passed away, we will commemorate the deceased Member at the first plenary session. Congressman Gyula Panczél passed away. My question is why we did not remember him at this first plenary session. Thank you very much.
u2021-02-01-21	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that this will happen at the first regular meeting, so it is expected that on the 15th. [[György Szilágyi: Let us remember now, Mr President. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Wait for it!]] I give respect to every congressman. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On the basis of written information from the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, as well as announcements of the absence of additional representatives, I do not see the possibility to restore the quorum today. Based on this, the house rules are 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, I shall establish the list of missing representatives, as I have already mentioned. In the absence of an agreed agenda proposal, no item on the agenda may be discussed. I would like to inform you that you will be informed of the date of the next Parliament meeting. The meeting's closed.
