u2021-05-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. The 22nd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Gergely Arató will be in charge of the meeting to assist me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate and conclusion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2022 will follow. The bill is T/16118. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/16118/1. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I now call on Mr László Földi to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-1	Dear Parliament, Today's six-hour timeframe is divided into 123 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 57 minutes for the KDNP Group, 42 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 39 minutes for the MSZP Group, 30 minutes for the DK Group, 26 minutes for the LMP Group, 25 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 18 minutes for the independent Members.
u2021-05-21-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, and the first among them is the representative of Fidesz, Mr Károly Panczél. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. Allow me, in the context of the 2022 budget, to talk about its national policy implications. Addressing the challenges of the coronal virus epidemic has not meant, and we hope, that the next year will not mean that thinking in a united nation will be put behind us. The support of foreign Hungarians remained constant in the epidemic situation. We didn't let go of any Hungarians. The amount of national political resources has not decreased, and has even increased in recent years, in 2020 and 2021. This is proof that support for foreign Hungarians is not only a priority policy, but also a new approach that has become common not only in government but also in public life. Programs for foreign Hungarians, open forms of support have become system-wide and are implemented year after year, and programmes have been announced that provide a solid support for Hungarians across borders. In recent times, Hungarian communities from abroad have experienced that they are not alone, they can count on the support of the mother country. None of the national policy programmes have ceased, we have been able to continue them in recent years, and the budgetary proposal before us is a guarantee that we will be able to continue them in 2022. As in the custom of the government, for the seventh time in spring, he submitted the next budget, thus strengthening predictability and predictability for all concerned. Thanks to strong funds, we can say that Hungary's economy has proved to be more resilient than the EU countries in general during the coronal virus epidemic. The focus of the measures is on job creation, families with children and pensioners, as well as the sectors of priority for the Hungarian economy. In 2022, like previous civil government budgets, almost all areas can be enriched with more resources. Dear House, 2021 will also be the year of a fresh start in national policy, which also holds the hope that programmes and events can be implemented in a large part in the same way this year, and we are confident that we will be able to fully return to normal in 2022. In 2021, the national political programmes for foreign Hungarians were renewed, continued in 2022 and implemented in a new structure. In the National Renewal Programme launched by the State Secretariat for National Policy, so far the funds are now more systematic in the fields of education, culture, church, sport, youth and scouting, community building and diaspora. In addition, we hope, among other things, to achieve the undisturbed Unlimited! excursions, summer camps for young people living in the Carpathian Basin and diaspora, as well as the Petőfi Sándor Program and the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Program. The amounts secured in the 2022 budget for the implementation of the activities of the State Secretariat for National Policy are also a guarantee for the continued operation of these programmes. Dear House, On the way forward, I would like to highlight a ministry on the national policy aspect of the 2022 budget, as, for example, we can also find significant support in the chapter of the Agricultural Ministry. About 70 percent of Hungarians across the border live in rural areas, including nearly 30 percent live in agricultural activities and related manufacturing. Within the support of cross-border agricultural and rural development tasks, cooperation with the mother country is an important institutional system of the villager network in the Carpathian Basin, which will continue to be supported next year. In addition, the agricultural portfolio supports agricultural education in Hungarian at all levels in order to encourage survival in the homeland. Also mentioned is the Schams Ferenc plan, which aims to support the interests and cooperation of Hungarian winemakers across the border with a total of about 300 million. The Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme will continue next year. This programme is covered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The aim of the programme, which has been running for several years, is to develop Csángóföld at a similar pace with other Hungarian populated areas. With a budget of about one billion, we will hopefully be able to continue working together so far, expand the education network in Csángóföld, provide the necessary infrastructure and the pedagogical background. Support for Stipendium Hungaricum and Diaspora Scholarships is also managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in one appropriation. This gives the Hungarians of the diaspora the opportunity to take part in Hungarian higher education and the Hungarian training of the young people of the diaspora, and it can manage even more resources next year compared to this year. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology, remaining in education, provides support for cross-border higher education tasks and distributes this framework there, with the main aim of raising intellectuals across borders and the quality-oriented development of higher education. [[8.10]] Next year's budget will not release the hands of talented researchers and academics across the border who enrich spiritual and scientific life in their homeland. Here the Hungarian Academy of Sciences contains a separate chapter, where Domus homeland scholarships and Hungarian scholarships are included, and support for Hungarian scientists and scientific organizations across the border is also included here. Finally, I would like to highlight the Bethlen Gábor Fund as a fund manager, where the proposals announced will be received, from which the payments will be made and then the tenders will be cleared. For years, the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager has been taking care of and bringing together our national policy goals, supporting the progress of Hungarians across the border in their homeland, helping Hungarian-Hungarian studies and these institutions, such as the House of Hungarians, to build Hungarian-Hungarian relations without limit! there are sources of support for the implementation of economic development and business promotion programmes affecting Hungarians across borders. The Bethlen Gábor Fund can manage more than 187 million HUF in next year, with 33 billion HUF 830 million in total. Dear House, Mr President, It is important to point out that this budget for next year includes not only the relaunch of Hungary and gives it the opportunity, but also the Carpathian Basin framework of this budget, and this budget shows that in 2022, developments in sectors that play a key role in re-launching, such as the economy and tourism, will continue to help the foreign Hungarians thrive in their homeland, and this remains the most important objective. The 2022 budget is therefore not only the country, but also the budget for the re-launch of the nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work by speaking to the representative of Jobbik, and we will be next, Mr Gergely Kálló. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Thus, it has been said many times in recent days, as my fellow Member, Károly Panczél said, that this budget expresses thinking throughout the nation and in the nation and can create unity between Hungarian and Hungarian. Let me disappoint you a little bit, everyone who thinks that way. Last year, I had the opportunity to speak for the first time about the budget debate, and that's when I brought you a number. This number is 6681. Last year, from 2010 onwards, 6681 budgetary amendments were proposed by the opposition to the ruling party. Do you know how many of these 6681 amendments have been adopted since 2010? 22 pieces. 22 pieces of the 6681 amendment were adopted! To me, if I hear that they want to show thinking in a united nation in the budget, it's a brutal number, at least for me. How can it be that, from opposition representatives, who also represent people, they also bring problems into Parliament and in the way they are budgeted, they are trying to solve people's problems with the possibility of budgeting, you are trying to solve them simply because of the opposition proposal, simply sweeping them off the table? 'Cause that's what these numbers show. It is very nice that we want to express the unity of the nation from budget to budget, but the fact is that the intention is noble and the content is empty, because you simply refuse to deal with half of the country in relation to our budget. I'm not a naive person, I know I won't be able to persuade you to, say, support my over 40 budget amendments in my case. I'm not a naive man, I don't think any of my opposition fellow Members are, but I make these amendments every year, I consult with mayors, municipal representatives, I put the entire constituency on my back, I go through the roads, I see what improvements we can make to support the people there. You guys are gonna clean these things off the table. Anyway, I took my task seriously again this year because of one thing, and that is this: because our current budget amendments from the opposition, which we are submitting, are an alternative budget, I consider all the amendments as an alternative budget. Why am I doing this? I am doing this because we are doing it with these amending proposals, which, I repeat, you are not accepting in order, and with these amendments we can prove that if the change of government is possible after 2022, then what will we be spending on. For example, instead of a hunting exhibition, it is more important for me to finally put the road between Adony and Perkata in order, which is an adventure to go through because of the potholes. In addition to supporting the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, it is more important to me that, say, the II. Ferenc Rákóczi's barracks in Ercsi will be repaired and a rental program launched. So the language of the scales, for whom what is important. We're going to prove to them what's important to us. It's more important to me that instead of supporting all kinds of private companies, we finally get the tourist attractions that are in my district in the form of castles, fix them, turn them into a youth house, and give them to the residents, enjoy them, love them. It is far more important for me to put the public lighting that you and the previous city administration have ruined than to spend on pretend investment and stadium development. These are more important things, and if these things are important to the people who live there, then there is a solution: we must be voted on next year. One more thing struck me in the words of my fellow Member Panczél, and this is the words "planability" and "foresight" in relation to the budget. So, planning, predictability. Please, how can you plan to talk about predictability when you are committing attacks against the municipalities from week to week, and therefore also against the municipal budget? But let us also give examples of this, let us not be demagogues, let us not puff the horse-zung like this; I can give you two examples. Selling rent apartments. How can you talk about predictability when you're giving me the opportunity to sell municipal property for potom money? Where is this predictability and planning? But you don't have to go to the apartments, there's one more example I've brought you: this is the special economic zone that was recently thrown into Fejér's 4th constituency. Do you know what a city with the right of Dunaújváros county has to offer? If this draft is accepted, only this year will our city lose 500 million HUF without paying Hankook's business tax. 500 million just this year! Next year we are talking about HUF 1.7-2 billion. How can you talk about planning for a budget when such assassinations are being carried out against a local government? ! Let's not talk, please, about predictability, and let's not talk about, please, about the future of a local government in relation to these budgets. I ask one more thing: let a budget symbolize the unity of the nation, but don't forget that the nation is part of the opposition. Then accept a number of amendments from us, and jointly develop the countryside through these budget amendments and the budget itself. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district.
u2021-05-21-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We can now hear the voice of the Member of the KDNP. Here comes Dawn Juhász. Here you go. [[8.20]]
u2021-05-21-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The budget submitted by the Government for 2022 is the budget for the re-launch of the country. A total of HUF 7308 billion will be available in 2022 under the economic re-launch action plan, which is 13 percent of next year's GDP. I would like to talk about the environment and climate protection areas, among the main areas of economic recovery. The latter is particularly important because Hungary is committed to protecting its natural heritage and the natural conditions of the way in which the Hungarian people worked together. Therefore, when preparing the 2022 budget, the government also paid particular attention to environmental protection and action against the adverse effects of climate change. This is confirmed by the fact that, as part of the economic re-launch action plan, the construction and development of the green energy and circular economy and the full digitalisation of the Hungarian economy will start from the second half of this year in line with Hungary's climate protection objectives. It is clear that the pursuit of clean and renewable energies must have a greater role to play, and energy efficiency will also become more and more important. This has a positive impact on energy supply, transport, construction and manufacturing. This will lead to significant green investments and improvements in these areas in the coming period. The implementation of Hungary's climate policy ambitions is included outside the Energy and Climate Modernisation System in the draft chapter of the Economic Restart Fund, which is nearly HUF 38 billion according to the 2022 grant. I would like to talk about two outstanding instruments. One is the LIFE programme and the other is the support of the Modernisation Fund. The implementation of projects under the LIFE programme will contribute significantly to the environmental and nature conservation and climate protection objectives of both Hungary and the European Union, as well as to the conservation and development of our country's natural capital and services with a potentially direct economic potential, including tourism and its revenues. The objective of the Modernisation Fund is to modernise energy systems and increase energy efficiency. With the funding of the Modernisation Fund, projects such as investments facilitating the integration of electricity generation and use from weather-dependent renewable sources, improving energy efficiency, energy storage and energy networks, including the modernisation of district heating lines and electricity transmission networks can be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I believe that we have an important task, without doubt, because we all need to leave clean water, cleaner air and a more livable planet for the next generation. However, we must continue to do so in order to create a cleaner and healthier environment. We have been on this path, and as we see on the basis of the 2022 budget, we will continue to do so in the future. In fact, the 2022 budget is another step in order for Hungary to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050. It is clear that this is not just a commitment, but a firm action. Hungary has already achieved a significant reduction of 33 percent compared to 1990. But we are also at the forefront of the EU as one of the first Member States in the European Union to have a realistic, ambitious 40 percent emission reduction target set at the legal level by 2030. This can be said by very few EU Member States outside Hungary. I consider the protection of the natural environment of our created world to be our primary obligation to preserve our built heritage. And the last year has shown a number of results. In the framework of the climate and nature conservation action plan, among other things, the elimination of illegal landfills and the purification of rivers and one of our most important programmes is the wooding, which aims to increase the share of forested areas in Hungary from the current 24 percent to 27 percent. The long-term sustainable use of natural resources, improving the quality of the environment, preserving natural heritage and strengthening environmental safety are key conditions for the development of society and the economy. Next year, the government will continue to implement the programmes launched in previous years, ensure the fulfilment of the obligations arising from domestic and EU and international legislation, and plan to make progress in a number of areas in order to promote and implement the objectives of the national environmental programme. During 2022, the government will continue to aim at and support knowledge-based, sustainable and internationally competitive agricultural and food production, stable and quality food supply, while at the same time taking the necessary measures to improve the living countryside. Using the available support opportunities, they can be implemented in line with changing needs and external conditions, inter alia, in agriculture and the coordination of environmental, climate policy and competitiveness objectives, adaptation to the different natural conditions of domestic landscapes. In order to achieve the goals of sustainable development, I believe that there is a need for an approach. One of the cornerstones of this could be the effort to develop environmental awareness and to educate the environment. Such programs have been going on for several years and will continue in 2022, such as the national school garden development programme, the Green Kindergarten programme, the Biotical index for secondary school education, the, the Save the Garden! , eco-school programme, forest-do-, forest-school programmes, awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns and actions. In addition, the implementation of measures related to air quality improvement and noise reduction will continue to be a priority in the coming year. The main objective is to improve ambient air quality and to prevent the development of air pollution that endangers human health and the natural environment. In order to achieve the objectives set, we need a joint effort, which must be represented not only at global level, but also at local level. The protection of our created world, the fight against the negative effects of environmental protection and climate change are published in several chapters of the budget planned for 2022, including the chapter on the Agricultural Ministry, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the Economic Restart Fund, which also supports the Hungarian government's commitment to the topic. We are fighting to protect the living conditions of future generations by using our natural resources carefully. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-21-8	Thank you very much. A member of the MSZP Group, Mr Csaba Tóth, may now speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The government has named the budget for the new start-up for 2022. Accordingly, the economic re-launch action plan will have a central role in the budget and in its communication several times, as you said before me that HUF 7308 billion will be available in the framework of this action plan, which is 13 percent of next year's GDP. But reality is different. The fact is that the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic has caused serious damage to the Hungarian economy, so it is justified and even necessary for the state to help the economy, if necessary, at the expense of moderate debt. Despite indebtedness, the money, with some exceptions, is largely not where it would be needed. This budget does not solve the problems faced by municipalities last year and since the 2019 municipal elections. [[8.30]] A number of previously introduced withdrawals are perpetuated by the 2022 budget, making it clear that the government does not want to give the municipalities any room for manoeuvre next year. Thus, increasing the amount of the solidarity contribution and withdrawing the tax on motor vehicles will also be a significant burden for local governments to reduce their business tax revenue. While in previous years the losses caused by the coronal virus epidemic have prevented local authorities from developing their business tax revenues, they will not be able to do so next year because of the government's sarcasm. Forty percent of the tax on motor vehicles was the local government's own income, which for the second year has gone entirely to the disease control fund. Thus, the local governments will suffer a loss of HUF 35 billion. In addition, the HUF 76 billion expected from the retail special tax will also be transferred here. However, apart from these two sources, the fund does not have any other income, so everyone must contribute to the control of the epidemic and the justification for it seems rather uncredited. Business tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises is also a serious problem. Thus, one of the most important sources of revenue of the municipalities was halved. The measure covers approximately HUF 150 billion. Moreover, the compensation promised was designed in such a way that while settlements of less than 25,000 inhabitants are automatically compensated, the larger cities were granted individual treatment by the government. Although 32 billion forints were distributed, for example, Budapest did not receive a penny. The increase in the rate of tax on public utility lines is also a significant burden. For example, the tax burden of Metropolitan Waterworks increased from HUF 729 million to 3.2 billion. In return, however, the ban on introducing a new municipal tax and increasing existing taxes remains alive. There is some increase in support of the operation of local authorities. While in the budget law for 2021 we saw an appropriation of HUF 265.7 billion, the proposal includes an appropriation of HUF 266.6 billion for next year. It contains a minimum increase for the following lines: there is a slight increase in the amount provided by the central budget for the operating expenditure of the municipal office, which is less than a 1% increase compared to last year; there is also little progress in the basic support for the maintenance of roads. Let's see what withdrawal means specifically for my constituency, Zugló. The state withdrawal of the motor vehicle tax will take more than HUF 500 million from the district. Nearly HUF 2 billion will be added to the amount of the solidarity contribution, and Zugló will lose another HUF 3 billion of business tax revenue. These were just the biggest items. In the budget of the Zugló municipality, withdrawal amounts to HUF 6.6 billion. If calculated, the withdrawal will take 50,000 forints from each resident in Zugló. It happens that the government spends hundreds of billions of forints on completely unnecessary investments. Although the government has promised to compensate the municipalities for the losses, this is not the case on the basis of the draft. It does not fall behind because the government would not have planned additional resources for municipalities in the budget, but these subsidies are generally dedicated additional resources to be used for specific tasks. These are not additional resources to compensate for specific withdrawals, but to cover previously planned programmes. For example, such aid is linked to the increase in the wages of employees in municipal institutions. This is also acknowledged in the budget proposal itself when it states in its explanatory statement that some forms of support have increased because of the need for an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as many local government workers are working on this salary level. This is therefore not compensation for withdrawals, but a reduction in their additional potential losses. However, in many other cases the aid has not been increased, and this really shows why the inhabitants of the municipalities will ultimately suffer from the 2022 budget. For the third year, support for the maintenance of public lighting has remained unchanged and the support for other municipal tasks has remained unchanged for the third year. However, when there is no money for improvements and there is no adequate assistance from the municipalities to maintain the existing infrastructure, this situation will only deteriorate. Similar problems can be seen in the area of children's meals, where the development aid for catering has remained unchanged for three years, and the support for children's meals has increased by less than 5 percent over these three years, with food prices increasing by more than one year. This increase, though growing on paper, is in fact not enough to keep up to date. This is also a problem in the case of social catering, as it increased by only 3 percent by 2020 and 2021. For many development resources, only stagnation can be detected. The development and renovation of institutions carrying out compulsory municipal tasks has not increased since 2020; the renovation of inland roads, sidewalks, bridges, support for the purchase of fuel for social purposes will not increase compared to last year. Extreme support for municipalities is even decreasing compared to last year and the year before last. It can therefore be seen that real municipal compensation cannot be discussed. But let's see exactly what these withdrawals are putting at risk in Zugló's life. In 2020, Zugló spent 3.2 billion forints on the social care system, while the maintenance of the Zugló crèches cost 1.9 billion forints. The district spends 3.2 billion forints on health care, health care services in Zugló. He spends 430 million forints on municipal law enforcement and 420 million on the children's welfare center. A total of HUF 4 billion will be spent on the kindergarten institutional system maintained by the Zugló municipality. On this basis, it can be seen that the withdrawal of HUF 6.6 billion from the entire nursery and kindergarten care system removes its budgetary foothold, or that, if these are maintained by the municipality, health care and social care systems are at risk. The MSZP fraction does not support the adoption of the bill on the 2022 budget in view of what has been said. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2021-05-21-10	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, Dr. Judit Bertalan, is next. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me turn back a little bit to what I said before. My fellow Member has launched his comment on the budget of 22 by saying who is not in favour and how much less this budget is. Sometimes it is good to develop our chronological and historical knowledge, because if we try to create a little analogy to the impact of the financial crisis of 2008-9 and the pandemic period of last year on the economy, there is a huge difference. You know, my fellow Member, as long as your governments, left-wing governments, failed businesses at the time, abandoned families, failed the local governments and practically let Hungary drift and vulnerable to the financial world, then the budget of 2021 and its amendments are about how Hungary's Government should provide protection and help within the framework of the economic action plan in the event of economic difficulties created by the pandemic. Moreover, the 2022 budget is based on these pillars. It is not the austerity, it is not the withdrawal, it is not the reduction of the various resources, it is not the logic that governs the preparation of Hungary's budget for the tenth year, which is about how to be as small as possible and how to be as many as possible in financial institutions or organisations that Hungary has otherwise become vulnerable to under your governments. The first three years of 2010-14 were about how to protect this vulnerability for the Orbán government. Do you remember him? Foreign currency loans. Do you remember him? IMF loan. Do you remember him? The overhead was in the sky. In 2013 a stable base was created for Hungarian families, which did not have to start every year in the fear that gas, electricity and utility prices knew the proportion and percentage of gas prices were only threatened and exposed to this because at some point, also left-wing governments, sold out the Hungarian utility assets. [[8.40]] There's a big difference. I'm sorry. And from this basic position, looking for the important differences, we'll probably never find a common denominator. Therefore, let me tell you some important things from the 2022 budget. And while I know you're saying these are repetitions, these are important numbers and important repetitions, and it has to be said, because the 2022 budget is indeed a reboot budget. Indeed, the reboot, because if we only see data released in the days, which was already used to restart the Hungarian economy in the context of amending the budget for 2021, then you can see that Hungarian economic growth was surprising even for analysts. I think that it is not very possible to comment on this, especially not on your part, it is a matter of fact, a qualification established by independent financial rating agencies. Let us look further at the beneficiaries of the 2022 budget. Many by the way [[Zoltán Varga: By name!]] But I think if I wanted to simplify it, I would say that they are beneficiaries of the 2022 budget, we can say that they are the winners of the first round, Hungarian families. [[Zoltán Varga: Say by name!]] There is an unprecedented amount of resources available to support Hungarian families in the support system for the family formation of families. By the way, the Hungarian families, especially the young Hungarian families, who are planning to start a family, today we can say that, despite the pandemic not only in Hungary, but also in Europe and in the world economy, they can feel safe thanks to the subsidies, opportunities and financial policy provided for in the 2022 budget. We do remember this wasn't the case in 2008 and 2009. Just so we don't forget, the methodology and methodology of crisis management are significantly different. The second beneficiary of the 2022 budget is the Hungarian economy or businesses, which did not respond in the same way as Hungarian employers, companies and businesses had to react in the 2008-2009 years because they did not receive any help at the time. In contrast, in the world of the Hungarian economy, Hungarian employers, Hungarian workers, businesses, we can also say today that there are as many people working in Hungary today as before the pandemic. The competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is also guaranteed by the work of Hungarian workers, as it can only produce economic progress. In the last year, there has been no significant fall in the labour market. If this possibility arose, the government provided immediate assistance to Hungarian businesses, particularly the sectors affected by the pandemic, within the framework of the economic action plan. But I think to say that the resources of this budget do not go where it is really needed, it does not, to put it mildly, correspond to reality and to the figures set out in the budget proposal. Let's look at some more numbers, because I said that Hungarian families are one of the beneficiaries of the Hungarian budget in 2022 for next year. HUF 2778 billion is available to support families. This is nearly 483 billion higher than last year, with a pandemic last year, and so that the pandemic, let us be objective, that it did have effects on the economy. Let us also look at the amount available under the economic re-launch action plan. Let us repeat, because this is a very high number guaranteeing that, in the years after the pandemic, the Hungarian economy is not only recovering, but its further progress or its further good performance is well founded, it is HUF 7308 billion. There were never so many sources available! Especially when businesses really needed this, at the height of 2008-2009, when you reacted by putting Hungarian businesses in a loan trap and the country being indebted. Money and guarantees are not for financial institutions, and I don't know what they are, but for Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families. It is very difficult to argue that much of the budget resources are going to the wrong place. What does this budget mean for this reason? It means predictability, predictability, and, as I mentioned earlier, security, and the calmness that the Hungarian budget will allow safe planning in addition to restarting in the following year. We could still look at numbers, but let me say, given that I am a rural Member of Parliament in an individual district, where 37 out of my 41 settlements are under five thousand settlements, so let me open the next range of beneficiaries of the 2022 budget without adding the funds available at the Agricultural Ministry and at the agricultural purse, because they are also huge, let us see that the Government of Hungary has been serving the development of small rural settlements under five thousand ever since 2019 and thereafter. Take a look at the fact that last year's budget and the previous year's budget had a record amount of this kind of support thanks to the program of the Hungarian village, but in the budget of 2022 there is a hundred billion forints available to improve the quality of life of small settlements. And that the program is effective? I think we can say that in a short time, yes and very effective. Thanks to the programme of the Hungarian village, I will say in small settlements and only in lágvorts and only a few areas of development, which, if I want to make a subtle sense of the difference between the post-2010 rural policy and the pre-2010 rural policy, I must say that we did not even see the possibility of living in a small establishment of some kind of source. Small settlements have been able to strengthen in two directions in recent years: they have been able to achieve large amounts of investment, development, through the municipal and territorial operational programme, and I can tell you for sure that all settlements in Komárom-Esztergom have received significant TOP resources for the necessary investment. It is significant, in all settlements, and for investments that the settlement needed. As an addition to this, the Hungarian village programme, which I would like to recall, and let me recall this, was added, because this is true again, this is the difference in attitude between the governments before 2010 and after 2010, namely that the wallet responsible for this project and the Commissioner of the Government asked the mayors themselves, the leaders of the local authorities, it is not an exaggeration to say that the Hungarian village programme was actually written by the Hungarian mayors, the mayors of the Hungarian villages. Thus, this money, which appears to be such a small amount of development in rural development, seems to be very simple, but it goes to important developments, for which there was no EU source, especially from domestic sources before 2010, not even dreamed of renovating or developing medical clinics. It is not as large as what is available in a European Union resource, it is smaller because otherwise it is okay, but every 5-10-15 years it is necessary to start a mid-cost maintenance and renovation. Obviously, the wisdom and sobriety of village mayors is that 3-5-10-15 million forints will not be used by EU funds. They can acquire medical equipment, renovate local community spaces, build service apartments, and acquire machinery and equipment for public works in the village. And here we stand for a paragraph and sentence with parentheses. Do you know why this is so? In the last roughly six or seven years, all of my mayors have complained that, due to the recovery and stability of the labour market, the public work programme is good that there is still, but there is virtually no number of employees, who can otherwise be used or hired for tasks related to the maintenance of the village. [[8.50]] So it is extremely necessary, it is a substitute and a very useful support opportunity to mechanize the maintenance of green areas and public areas in Hungarian villages. Obviously, the logic is different from that of a city, a big city and another capital city, but let us add that people live in the Hungarian countryside, for whom quality of life, staying there, the intention of starting a family must be supported and strengthened. These grants, in particular the "Hungarian Village" programme, are combined and complemented with a wide range of family support, I think they are absolutely suitable and capable. Do you know why this is so, and why are we so supportive of the Hungarian village programme? Because we see that the properties are sold out, the desire to build and move to the village or, let's just say, the road is on its way. We cannot really say after two or three years that the depopulation of our small villages has stopped or ceased, but we can see that we can definitely say that trends have been started and made visible, making rural life attractive to people who have grown up or lived in cities. Then what else is the program of the Hungarian village? Goes to inner-area sidewalks, inland roads, goes to the Hungarian village and program for kindergarten gymnasiums, kindergarten renovations, to renovate smaller or larger urban infrastructure by target and thematically, as requested by the Hungarian mayors and mayors of Hungarian villages during the last years' consultations. So let me sum up my contribution to the budget of 22, so that the central budget is clearly a priority, according to the intention and will of the national portfolio, to restart and strengthen the economy. In principle, the Hungarian economy and Hungarian businesses are, by means of tax cuts and aid policy, certainly, the families as recipients and dedicated support groups are there again, but, let me confirm, there is also the countryside. These three, together with the Hungarian village, which is available again from a hundred billion Hungarian sources for the development of Hungarian settlements, practically strengthening each other by treating these three target groups as supported, and I would like to thank the author for this, because this guarantees not only the re-launch of the economy in the countryside, but also the survival and survival of the rural population. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-21-12	Thank you very much. The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Zoltán Varga, is next. Here.
u2021-05-21-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, See, that's life. I was not prepared to respond to the speech by the Member before me, but I must start today with this. Indeed, that is life, because the moment has come when I must say that there are some issues that we agree on. For example, in the fact that the budget submitted by you really favours Hungarian families, the Hungarian families are the beneficiaries. Just, honourable Member, you did not tell us which families belonged to Hungary. I will help you: the Orbáns, the Tiborczok, the Butchers, and the Matolcsys. It may be possible to add one or two more, but it's pretty much possible to close this circle here. He spoke long about the crisis in 2008 and its solution. Let me remind you something about that, and obviously you'll understand that better. I have to admit, I don't like football very much, but you have to love it, so let me live with a soccerist metaphor. The guy who's already warmed up to a canceled game is gonna lose his own game. You said that people live in the Hungarian countryside. Hooray! I'm asking you to tell the members of the government that you're experiencing the same thing, because as a country representative, I see that, but the problem is that government members don't see it from luxury helicopters, luxury airplanes, from yachting in the Adriatic. They see the four or five families to be supported. I'd be happy to be a partner with you on this one, if you like. Let's go to the Carmelite Monastery and talk about the fact that Hungarians live in the Hungarian countryside and should be helped! You know, like I said before, I'm a country politician, I'm from the country, Debrecen. I've seen 15 budgets. I must say that what lies before us in this House is amazing. This budget cannot be taken seriously, and it cannot be taken seriously, among other things, because you, honourable members of the government, do not take it seriously either. Klára Dobrev, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition, said very, very rightly yesterday that the election is democracy and the negotiation of the budget is a celebration of parliamentarism. The big problem is, you're both as horrified as the smartest wallet in the world, Lárinc Mészáros from the alphabet book. There's a problem, honourable MPs, that you're gonna lure one of them away and steal the other. For you, the budget is as much as democracy and the sentence that begins with any freedom attached to it is unnecessary; I would also say that it is a gentlemanly mischief, but I do not say it, because you like to be gentlemen. You don't need a budget, you can do whatever you want outside the budget. If the nice leader wants to booze, they're gonna build him another stadium. If the nice leader wants to go to a game, they're gonna buy another luxury plane with the defense wallet. In the event that the child thinks he's going to be a messiah, the companies of government-wide oligarchs will start supporting sects near children. If the kid wants to be a soldier or play with it, they'll have him signed up for the defense wallet and have him graduate from one of the most expensive academys in the world. If Lőrinc Mészáros falls in love, he will quickly win a few hundred billion forints of European tender, and have something to show the new woman. If the grandchildren want to bathe, they simply surround the Lake Balaton. If the gentlemen want to take a vacation, they will have the oligarchs cast some yachts and leave so that they will not be disturbed by the sight of rural Hungary in the middle of the Adriatic. If Minister Szijjártó already has a loud police luxurious helicopter, then they're pushing a luxury jet under his ass, flying a hundred kilometers or so and then keeping it a secret. I know what they say: if Viktor Orbán wants grapes, he doesn't pop off in the beach slippers to the grocery store on the corner, but they buy Tokaj for him. We see that they pay off to Putin, that he will go to the life-threatening Paks II., 100 billion to the public media, which is actually not public media, but the mouthpiece of the dear leader, plus 30 billion to the disgusting and lying blue posters, because you believe that the virus or any crisis can be overcome. What lies in front of us, I know it hurts you, but somewhere around your brain, you can feel it, it's nothing but a set of fairy tales, a collection of fairy tales, because hundreds of billions, if not thousands of forints, are hidden in it, which will go into well-defined, well-written pockets, fattening your chin, belly and wealth. We see how important it is for you, by the way, not only for Hungary and its people in the countryside, but for Hungary at all, because we have told you, Congresswoman, otherwise you have told your colleagues that pensioners are in a hell of a situation where inflation is running, that a pensioner in the markets is about as far as the peepshows are concerned. A pension raise of 800 forints doesn't really buy you anything. We also see that I come from the local government world, that the municipalities are balancing on the edge of the bank, and not only would this budget help them, but they are pushing one more on the slab, on the press that hit them, because the apartments are being sold out to the buddy real estate mafia. [[9.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Honourable Members, This does not require a budget, the 133 very brave, malleable and silent pro-government Members can write it down to the dear leader at any time, as they do otherwise. I've said it so many times, I repeat, I'm from Debrecen. Probably Lajos Kósa and his colleagues in Debrecen can't or can't speak, they just don't want to say what kind of situation Debrecen is in. Because, contrary to what you suggest, Debrecen is a window city and, by the way, an alternative capital, which your communication with Budapest has tried to build in a very mean way, and how good it is, because this window town is otherwise bathed not only in the attention of Viktor Orbán, but also in the money he receives from them, it is not so. Lajos Kósa may or may not be able to or dare to say that Debrecent has suffered billions of damages over the last few weeks, months, years. They do not dare to say it here in Parliament, because they are not here in the budget debate, because Debrecen's austerity of the government is a virtually bankrupt situation. They don't dare tell us that the city is losing billions of dollars in business taxes. They dare not say that taking away the car tax will damage more than 700 million forints. They do not dare to say that the loss of parking fees caused hundreds of millions of forints of damage to the city and caused a huge injury to its economy; that the removal of public transport support is almost half a billion forints; that the solidarity contribution has quadrupled, and that our roads are potty and we do not really have parks. And they don't dare to tell me, or they don't want to tell me that the housing bill will mean a loss of millions of dollars to Debrecen. To take away our social housing, not only will the wealth of the city of Debrecen be greatly reduced, but also the inhabitants of Debrecen will be handed over to the housing mafia near Fidesz. I've already told you about Klára Dobrev, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition, and I need to recite it. He said that after the 2022 elections, this budget will go to the trash can. I confirm it, it will go there legally, because it belongs there; because it is not a budget, it is not the budget of many Hungary, it is the budget of some privileged people and families, it is a set of fairy tales, so that I do not use the word lies. You know, a thousand and one amendments could be tabled to this budget, any number, because it is bleeding from a thousand wounds, because it lacks solidarity, because it lacks humanity, because it is indeed the budget of some Hungarian families. Very interesting, I have tabled one amendment, of course concerning Debrecen, the vulnerable, poor, sick people who live in a social institution in Debrecen. And what does God give? Now, when I came to Budapest yesterday, I received a phone call from one of the social institutions in Debrecen. I got a call crying from a friend of mine. In Stroke, for three years, he's been practically helpless and in a very limited room in his movements. She told me that Zoli, help me, our TV broke, they took her away, and now I'm lying here between two dementias, and I'm crazy about not seeing anything from the outside world. I've been to this home. Yes, the leaders of the city of Debrecen, precisely because I, as a municipal representative, have raised my word so many times that these people must give the dignity they do not receive, they have begun to renovate this institution. But it's not enough! This man is not alone there, he cannot get out, he cannot get out of his bed for the third year. It's been locked up for two years and a half because no one can see him. There's not enough nurses, sometimes there's a one-night nurse on a whole floor. There's no Internet. He doesn't have a TV anymore, but I have to add that what they have is also being taken into a ward by someone's family. If they're poor, there's no TV. If it goes wrong, there's no TV. Yeah, we're gonna throw this budget in the trash, but in the meantime, show us that you still have a minimal spark of humanity. I asked for 300 million forints to clean up the social homes in Debrecen. 300 million forints! Do you know how much this money is, 300 million forints? The smartest wallet in the world pockets 450 million forints a day. Let's say to this man, if you dare to tell him to give up his one day's earnings. Let's give it to the Debrecen social home that those who lie there in an incredibly unnerving environment and a milieu of mostly fiftys are virtually locked away from the outside world and increasingly insane in the loneliness that receives them there, let's help them! It doesn't mean a day's worth to the butcher, unless he buys such big things for one day, doesn't have another vault, another fork, or anything else. And this could, of course, be projected on the Orbán family in the same way: they will take out less dividends, they will not buy yachts, perhaps they will not go to Péter Szijjártó in Bratislava with a defence luxury plane, and the line could be classified indefinitely. Show me that you still have a minimum spark of humanity left in you. Show me. That's all I'm asking of you. In 2022, this budget and Klára Dobrev rightly says goes to the trash can. And you're going to a dump in history, which is a social and historical necessity. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-21-14	Thank you very much. The representative of KDNP, Mr László Szászfalvi, is next. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get to my point, let me myself respond to what Congressman Zoltán Varga said. Congressman Zoltán Varga says that this budget is a set of fairy tales. I'm asking you to discuss with your boss what your budgets used to contain, because your boss confessed to what your budget was, what your budgets were like, not a fairy tale, but a continuous lie. He, your boss, your party president, told me you lied to me this morning, noon, at night. He's referring to Klára Dobrev, what she said these days, what will be in 2022. Mr. Congressman, we will see what will happen in 22 and then the Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian voters, will make a wise decision on this. It is said that this budget will be thrown into the trash; I believe that we do have practice in this. As a Member of Parliament, I remember that you did not sit here at the time when a wonderfully beautiful budget was presented in 2006, as soon as the election took place, you immediately threw your own budget into the trash bin and radically reduced the various subsidies through the budget amendment. It's your dumpster, throwing it in a budget dumpster. Honourable Congressman, You and your behavior are very Pharisee, and I could say that a lot of demagoguery we've heard is a series of lies you've told. Honourable Congressman, He says you are referring to Klára Dobrev, that the budget is a celebration of democracy, a debate and acceptance of the budget is a celebration of democracy. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] [[9.10]] So you voted for your austerity budgets under festive circumstances, in a series. Under festive circumstances, your fellow Members voted in celebration, when they took it from teachers, took it from health workers, took it from nurses, took away their one month's wages from doctors. This was a holiday for you! They took away their 13th month pension from pensioners, their one month pension. This was a holiday for you when you could do all this. They're celebrating the bankruptcy of the local government. Well, what are you talking about, Congressman Zoltán Varga? I've come from the world of local governments, I've been working in the local government since 1990. Well, you've bankrupted the entire municipal system. After 2010, we had to make radical decisions in order to save the municipalities on the one hand and the institutions of the municipalities on the other. For HUF 1300 billion, we have consolidated the municipalities that you have bankrupted with ongoing budget cuts. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] , constantly placing additional tasks on the municipalities while diverting budgetary resources. Well, what are you talking about, Congressman? I'm sorry. ? They're celebrating the bankruptcy of the local government. The country was sold to the IMF in celebration; then the budget is such a holiday for you. They sold and privatised the public service companies which the Hungarian government has managed to recover over the past ten years, thus increasing and increasing the state's wealth. Well, that's your philosophy about the budget, and it's not just your philosophy, it's your specific practice. This is how you adopted, under festive circumstances, these austerity packages and austerity budgets, i.e. it follows that you, you have no moral basis to lecture us about budgeting and funding the local government world, and I can tell you more. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me get to what I was originally meant to say, and I have something to say. This budget, the 2022 budget before us, as stated in the presentation, is the budget for the re-launch of the country; it contains the economic re-launch action plan, which is the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary, and it is not just about the relaunch of the economy, but about the relaunch of life. As my pro-government colleague has already said here, the economic re-launch action plan contains HUF 7300 billion, partly in terms of national resources, a national resource of HUF 3883 billion, a European Union resource of over 3000 billion, and a tax reduction that represents significant help and support for businesses, families and young people under the age of 25, which is 423 billion. So it represents a total budget opportunity of HUF 7307 billion, support and resources to restart the economy, restart the country and restart life. I note, ladies and gentlemen, that not only in the 2022 budget, but also in the 2021 budget, very, very much resources remained, despite the crisis, despite the pandemic, and the programmes that served the lives of Hungarian citizens continued, see family support, see rural development subsidies. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow Members! I talked about the importance not only of re-launching the economy, but also of restarting life. In particular, I would like to talk about three sub-areas. In connection with the reopening of small settlements, we have just heard from my fellow Member a reference to the programme of the Hungarian village and its presentation. Let me say a few things about this area, too, because it is extremely important for the Hungarian countryside. I risk it, and perhaps we can say this word, that the Hungarian village program is a program of historical importance. Over the past decades and even before that, I am not aware of a complex conceptual programme that specifically targeted the Hungarian countryside, the assistance, support and support of Hungarian small settlements, focusing specifically on small settlements that have been small settlements that have been condemned to decay for long or long decades, and young people have fled there. And we see that this programme already has positive consequences, although we all know, obviously, that it is not enough to implement this programme for 1-2-3 years, but, in my view, it will take 15-20 years for this programme to go continuously, every year, so that we can achieve our common goal, at least hope that we can achieve our common goal, that the Hungarian countryside will flourish again, that small settlements will flourish again, and that young people will not escape, but stay or move to the countryside. Ladies and gentlemen, The result of the efforts of the last two years is that in more than 900 settlements this concrete fact has started to increase in more than 900 settlements, which is obviously still little, obviously much more needed, we all know that, but this is a very important feedback from this program, and it has a very serious impact that over the last two to 2.5 years we have spent more than 600 billion forints on small settlements. As we all know, the Hungarian village programme is a complex, multi-legged program consisting of the village CSOK, consisting of the village road base, consisting of the tender system, which opened up to local governments, church communities and civil society organisations, and as a fourth pillar from 2021, market players operating in villages can also receive support. Within a 48 billion-dollar framework, the Hungarian village's business start-up programme can be implemented up to a budget of HUF 25 billion, in Hungarian, micro-enterprises operating in small settlements, i.e. small businesses under ten people, and in the framework of a very flexible tender, wage support, asset development and other development. So I think that we are talking about a complex programme that covers almost all areas of life, from the economy to the community, from municipal development to families, to the renovation of roads, three, four, five-digit trips, which for more than two decades did not reach Hungarian national budgetary resources, let me also note this. For decades, public roads have been financed only from European Union resources, and for road renovation it has been financed by the budget. These were, of course, mostly motorways, motorways, single or double-digit state roads. In fact, three, four, five-digit trips have not been made available for a long, long period of decades. Ladies and gentlemen, The last two, two and a half, but it can be said that in three years there have been many ten billion forints in the road fund for the renovation of three, four and five-digit back roads, which are now tangiblely experiential, visible, and people living in rural small settlements can at least see that there is hope. They see that something has started, and this programme must be carried on, it must be continued in order that, indeed, the goals, the plans that people living in the countryside dream of, and they want to be realized, we can go through with it, and we can implement it. [[9.20]] With regard to the municipal tender system, I would not like to repeat the recent comment. I would like to add that in the last year and in 2019 there has been HUF 150 and HUF 210 billion funding, in 2021 there is HUF 250 billion available for these funds, for road funds and municipal subsidies. 14 applications have been announced so far in 2021, and these proposals will be submitted on an ongoing basis by the municipalities. Let me point out once again that this year there will be another opportunity for businesses working or operating in small settlements, partly for small village shops and partly for micro-enterprises, which will obviously help to revitalize these small settlements, if that is the case. Allow me to give you some numbers from my own constituency. My Somogy 2nd constituency consists of 77 settlements, of which 75 settlements are involved in the Hungarian village programme. Over the past two years, small settlements have received approximately HUF 3 billion in support. The village CSOK is also becoming increasingly popular in these small settlements. From the road base we have been able to translate approximately HUF 4.5 billion over the past few years to replace the decades of delays in the renovation of these side roads, and the churches have received hundreds of millions of HUF support and support for the implementation of their programmes in recent years. Of course, these programmes all help local or at least local entrepreneurs, as they will be the contractors, they will implement these programmes, which is obviously very important to them in terms of job preservation and job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, this budget for next year is not just a budget for starting the economy, it is not only a budget for restarting life in general, but it is a budget for the whole nation, because it is also about the Hungarian national community in the Carpathian Basin, so it is important that we also touch and touch on the area of national policy in some ideas, as it is a commitment to us. The government is responsible for the fate of Hungarians living outside the borders of Hungary, promotes the survival and development of their communities, the prosperity in the homeland, and supports their efforts to preserve their Hungarians. In recent years, the government has been able to establish and implement a very, very wide programme in the field of national policy, and this also applies to the year 2022, the budget for the year. In part, strengthening Hungarian institutions from abroad is the most important priority, since it is this institutional system that guarantees the survival of Hungarians, the establishment of a single Carpathian Basin space, the maintenance and further strengthening of various national political networks, the strengthening of the environment that helps Hungarian families abroad, and the integration of incentives that support Hungarians from abroad to have children in the Carpathian Basin. In addition, it is a very important focus on the development and connection of the diaspora's institutional network, the linking of this with the Hungarian institution network in the Carpathian Basin, the provision of native language education for all Hungarian children, and the further strengthening of relations between economic operators in the Carpathian Basin and Diaspora. It is also a very important priority in the coming years to increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian regions living abroad and to strengthen the protection and enforcement of the rights of Hungarians abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, In the area of national policy, we can also provide very serious resources in the National Cooperation Fund for our national communities across borders and for civil society organisations operating there. I would like to mention the support for national policy activities, for which the budget will provide more than HUF 5 billion in the following year. I would also like to underline what is a significant amount, and I do not want to go into smaller items, the various forms of support found in smaller ministries, but which, I think, is also related to the relaunch of the economy, this is that in the area of national policy, the budget for economic development programmes across the border provides HUF 9 billion for the next year, which is an appropriate opportunity for us to carry on the very, very important economic development programmes that have already been launched in the last year. The development of tourism for national policy purposes also serves to restart the economy, as it is also a huge opportunity to foster and strengthen Hungarian-Hungarian relations and to help and support Hungarian small businesses across borders. I also mention the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which is a very important base for our national policy. Here, the Bethlen Gábor Fund can farm from more than 33 billion forints in the following year. That is to say, despite the pandemic, in recent years, last year, too, this year, we have maintained the budgetary opportunities, the stability that we have been able to continuously ensure in the field of national policy, as in the field of church politics, and we want to continue to do so in the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the draft budget for 2022, and we ask the other factions to take into account these very positive and forward-looking foundations, so it is important that they support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-16	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP. Here.
u2021-05-21-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the pro-government representatives do not like this, but we are more interested in what the Hungarian people like. Well, that's certainly not the budget. So from this point forward next year, after the establishment of a new national unity government, the new parliamentary majority will actually have to adopt a new budget for the interests of the Hungarian people, and in the merit of the chaos that has developed here due to your regency in insufficient management of the epidemic situation, it can be improved, as hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have remained unemployed, tens of thousands of businesses have gone bankrupt in part, and some have been in an extremely difficult situation. They must be helped, and you, too, have bled out the local governments, to say the least. When I say that we need a new budget, then, of course, the new national unity government will decide whether we will be talking about a very, very important amendment to this budget or whether we will be talking about adopting a completely new budget. I think this will be the competence of the new majority. This budget for 2021, which you brought here, is essentially a budget for concreteisation and concreteisation. So it's only clear that you're preparing to fail in 2022 and you're still trying to shovel out the available resources at the last minute, create situations in which you'll be able to manage them. I'm telling you, we're not gonna make it, so we're gonna do this with a feather stroke. Nevertheless, you are only and exclusively engaged in maintaining power in this budget. Once again, we see that in this last year of your administration, they're trying to feed NER companies somehow. [[9.30]] That's why we're saying this is a budget for concreteisation. We can see all these investments, and other thousands of billion-dollar investment and development intentions, from which it is now quite clear, I think that you may not even think seriously that there is anything here on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, Paks II, that could be a long list, but simply that you want to get the money out of these for planning, that you will dig up a hole, dig up, dig up again, bury you again, and stuff the companies close to NER very nicely. I would also like to draw attention here to the case of trust foundations, because if we are talking about shoveling and privatizing public money, this is one of the eclectic examples. With these amendments to the law, you are basically organizing the Hungarian people's money, public money, basically turning people's pockets into fidesz private foundations. Only with the latest such amendment, 1750 state-owned properties are given to the hands of a private Fidesz foundation free of charge, whose hands are not bound, there are no conflict of interest rules, so basically all the Fidesz municipal representatives, mayor, MP, State Secretary, government member can be implanted into these foundations, they have control over these properties, over resources, over shares. I don't know if talent management has been a condition for Richter's shares and MOL shares, for example, a foundation. You're gonna outsource all of this. I would also like to stress to you here that there is a very accurate inventory of the wealth that is now being transferred to these foundations, and I would like to remind you to take great care of this wealth, because we will take everything back for the Hungarian people, this wealth will be once again in the hands of the Hungarian people, and everyone who has participated in the privatisation of public money and has committed a crime and has committed lawlessness will be held accountable to everyone. In the meantime, it is also happening in Hungary that, instead of actually helping people to get housing for example, the crisis has exacerbated the social situation in this regard, instead of taking another measure to give the home mafia space again in Hungary. Furthermore, this is not a solution to the sale of tenements in this way because this measure does not solve the situation of the masses who, even though hardworking people, have jobs, do not obtain a local government tenement and do not solve the situation of those who, even though they have a job, have not solved their housing and are unable to obtain adequate market rent. After all, market rent prices could also be regulated, and the State could otherwise intervene by providing adequate protection for the tenant and, of course, adequate protection for the owners of the apartment. It could be arranged to lower prices, to give many people access to such apartments, to rent these apartments, so, of course, municipal rentals could be much more available to more people who otherwise work hard. So again, once again, what you're talking about has not been solved. A lot of money has been taken from the municipalities in recent years. This is a very dangerous thing, because a lot of public services have been put at risk, providing these services, and here I am thinking only of the supply of healthy drinking water, and there is a long list of them. And besides, people feel a lot of this, so not only their long-term impact, but also, let's say, that the plumbing system is already broken down at a level that not only exists in the long term, but also now, unfortunately, it can be perceived, but also in daily things, it can be felt that a lot of money has been lost. For example, those who have children and who would take them to daycare, kindergarten, in many places the condition of these kindergartens or kindergartens is inadequate, there is a very urgent need for renovation, there is a great deal of money taken from the municipalities, there are many places where this is not possible. We have tabled a number of amendments to this year's budget, and I would also like to ask you that if you really care about the Hungarian people, you should support these amendments. Some of these are specifically related to the renovation of nursery schools and kindergartens, which will provide government resources, and I would also like to highlight amendments that are set out in Annex VIII, Section IX. District people, yoga towners, Ferencváros are very important in their lives. So, if these people are important to you, we ask you to support these proposals. So, as I mentioned, access to apartments is extremely important. A lot of people work hard, with no real housing solved. They must be helped at all costs. By the way, they can pay the rent and rent before any of you raise this, because they usually argue with this, but there are a lot of flats in József City, which are historically, not only in recent years, but unfortunately, from earlier onwards, they are gradually in a worse and worse technical state, and we are now in a position to put them in the right state only with government resources and by replacing the funds we have taken. This would be a great help to the people who live and work hard there. Cradle and kindergarten development and renovations, I just mentioned these. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. development and renovation of Horváth Mihály Square. We are talking about a space that is extremely frequented, one of the closest spaces to the Boulevard with enormous traffic, and it is now essential for the government to help it be renovated as soon as possible; The development of parking before the obstetrics and gynecology clinic, which has been going on for a long time again, and unfortunately this could not have happened due to the withdrawal of funds. In the same way, further improvement in public safety is of the utmost importance, as there is an improvement in this, but, of course, improvements are still needed in this respect. Government resources are also needed for this. In Ferencváros, the renovation of the Dési Huber Cultural House, the community house of the József Attila colony is also very important. The 400 million budget that was available for this was essentially withdrawn by the government on the basis of the coronal virus epidemic, and here I would like to stress that, in the same way, during the coronal virus epidemic, you have organized thousands of billions of people into fidesz private foundations. There is no money to renovate the cultural house, but there is money to otherwise give thousands of billions to these fidesz circles and try to make sure that after 2022 they can pay the party apparatus and their politicians and employees. In the same way, it would be very important to re-establish the state aid granted to the children's resort in Kaplanfüred. It would be important to renovate GPs, and I think that in the epidemic situation, when the country is really experiencing this situation for over a year now, then I should explain why it is extremely important to support GPs, to help them with their work and to properly maintain and renovate these clinics. So we would also provide 300 million forints from government sources. It is also important to highlight the lack of police personnel in Józsefváros. By the way, I would say that not only with regard to Józsefváros, the whole country is unfortunately true, the situation with the police is extremely difficult. An amazing amount of overtime is carried out by the stock and over-service, as the stock is not properly stocked. This should also be essentially political, let us say, money and a proper career, but it is also necessary to provide resources to enable the stock to be uploaded. As well as the renovation of Szigony utca, Nap utca and the development of the Officials' Camp are extremely important in the development of the services of the residential settlements, our amendment proposal would provide 400 million HUF of funding from the central budget. Just like that, I would like to mention the renovations of the Thirty-Twos and the expansion of the district green areas, and here I would also like to mention the renovations of the condominiums, because it is necessary again with a complex approach. There are now extremely good and innovative solutions to how to green downtowns and improve air quality even more using the courtyards of condominiums. [[9.40]] Here, too, I would like to turn back to the fact that this is not only important in general, but also the coronal virus epidemic, which has been shown by serious research, that people who are more exposed to viruses, viral infections who already live in a more polluted environment and in greater air pollution. So in this respect, the air of Budapest is important, but I am talking about Józsefváros and Ferencváros, the further greening and, of course, the renovation of the condominiums. After all, it is clear that in Józsefváros there are still many, many condos to be renovated. But I'm sure you all know who's been there, that there's amazingly beautiful buildings. I think that the people who live there deserve to live, not in crumbling condominiums, but in a beautifully renovated environment. The other thing is that we are talking about such beautiful buildings, which I think are worth showing to others, so that others can enjoy these buildings, which is why, of course, this many aspect is very important now to renovate these condominiums. Not to mention that the utility, engineering, is in an awful bad condition in many condominiums, and in a given situation the handling of a pipe break or any other problem, a heating problem, always costs much more than if a condominium is properly renovated and can function properly for decades. It is very important to help local businesses, to stimulate them, I think, also locally. Obviously, the local authorities are doing their best to do so, but in this situation, in addition to the fact that you have taken away a lot of resources from them, additional resources would be needed to help businesses, because there are also a lot of businesses that are in trouble because of the virus situation. We need to establish safe zones, which, I think, is also very important throughout Hungary. Therefore, it must be properly operated public safety, and this cannot be left to the municipalities alone. They have an extremely important role to play in this. They will, I think, do a lot of things to ensure this, but the government does have to help. There's a lot more to go on. We have put forward these amendments in particular and we look forward to supporting these amendments. Frankly, in addition to the need to rethink this entire budget, it is clear that we cannot talk you out of shoveling public money and trying to prepare for your fall in 2022. It is clear that the defeat of Viktor Orbán in 2002 seems to be very burned up. But in addition to you not changing that now, I'm sure we will, don't worry about it. However, they think again that many businesses, small, micro- and medium-sized enterprises, are in difficulty in Hungary. It is clear that Lőrinc Mészáros and the others have already received government support in the viral situation, tens of billions forints, unlike small businesses and Hungarian people. It is clear that the multinationals received all kinds of discounts in order not to have problems in the crisis, but very, very many Hungarians were in a very difficult situation, very many families were in a difficult situation, very many were at home with children when online education was going on, it was an amazing effort from families, many people may have lost their jobs as well. Please, before you accept the budget, it can still be modified to think that again and help these people. Help Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises! After all, the Hungarian economy can be more stable and more crisis-resistant, and unfortunately, the last year has shown that if not only multi-enterprises and, of course, NER knights are the first, but also the Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. So I think you can think about it, and that's what I'm asking you to do. If this budget remains in this form, we will certainly not accept it, but you can be sure that in 2022, after the new parliamentary majority has been established and the new national unity government has been established, this budget will be changed and Hungary will have a new budget that will be the people's budget. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-21-18	Thank you very much. We now have the opportunity to hear the voice of a national representative: Imre Ritter can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-19	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine vorgestrige und gestrige, 20-minütigen Reden bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/16118. uber den ungarischen Haushalt 2022 im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf weiter ausführe. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to continue today my 20-20-minute comments the day before yesterday and yesterday, addressing the nationality needs of the draft central budget law in 2022. In my first speech on Wednesday the day before yesterday, I started with a brief reflection on the situation of the nationalities living in Hungary at the beginning of the last cycle, in 2014, where we started, in the last six years what and how we were able to move forward, where we are today, what goals we have for further things, what tasks we have to solve to achieve them. I have done this because, without a sufficient review and knowledge of all this, it is not possible to give a realistic assessment of the past years or the national needs relating to the 2022 central budget, to deal with them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. In this speech, I spoke in detail about the results of the national minority teacher programme developed in the autumn of 2016: first, the fourfold increase and the full extension of the nationality allowance, which resulted in a total increase of approximately HUF 3.5 billion in the number of national minority teachers in 2021; second, the introduction of the minority educator's scholarship and the full extension of the three stages, resulting in a grant agreement with 417 minority educators, in the order of more than HUF 200 million. At the same time, I also said that although we have made serious efforts and are making progress towards training universities and colleges in order to ensure that higher education education is suitable for the training of a larger number of ethnic students, and that we can achieve the quality of the education of nationality educators, in particular the development of ethnic language competences, but the best of this work is still ahead of us. I also indicated that I would discuss this in more detail on Friday, or today. It is quite obvious that we have been able to make any significant progress and to achieve positive results in terms of ensuring the conditions of national education autonomy, if this cannot be linked in higher education to a sufficient number of higher education and high quality education courses, then all our efforts will be in vain. Without high standards of ethnic education, it is unthinkable to maintain a high quality ethnic education, the language and culture of nationality, even though Hungary's Fundamental Law guarantees this for all indigenous nationalities in Hungary, and it is the responsibility of the Hungarian State to ensure the conditions. In recent years, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, together with several national ethnic authorities, has made significant efforts to improve and resolve the problems and difficulties associated with the almost continuous development of ethnic education in higher education. [[9.50]] Let me just report a few cases from the last direct period. Despite the fact that more than 90 percent of the students are students of German and Croatian ethnic teachers, an English major was appointed as head of the Eötvös József College. At the University of Pécs, the support of the German Foundation Department, founded in cooperation with the German state, has been funded separately so far, and has been included in the university's big hat for two years, since then the position of the department is hanging in the air, and the position of head of the department has not been announced for a long time. They arrived in a series, and there are indications that in several training places, smaller numbers will not start the education of Serbian, Slovak, Croatian, Ukrainian or even Bulgarian nationality teachers, although two or three ethnic educators may mean the survival and preservation of a minority public education institution. To date, there has been no acceptance of the establishment of a nationality profession in the basic education of infants and young children. The proposed significant increase in the proportion of nationality language training has not been adopted in the context of the proposals for Bologna Revision. It is unacceptable for nationalities in Hungary that only 15-20 percent of the training in the teaching of ethnic education takes place in the minority language, the other Hungarians; at least the reverse of this would be necessary. In recent years at ELTE, which is one of the fundamental institutions of Hungarian ethnic education, the support of the Faculties of Philosophy and Natural Sciences has increased significantly, but the normative of the teaching and pre-school education courses has not been raised. In the case of ELTE-TÓK, to compensate for this, the previously provided HUF 63 million supplement and the HUF 10 million Lecturer Support were no longer provided on a separate basis in 2021, and although ELTE received HUF 1.1 billion more support, the Senate decided that ELTE-TÓK did not receive any of these forints back. In the last autumn, ELTE Origo wanted to terminate the language exams of 13 so-called smaller languages, including five ethnic languages. Following long negotiations, in recent weeks we have been able to secure, together with the ITM, the amounts of funding and support that could be used to save this could be partially restored. In the meantime, ELTE Origo has either converted or partially switched to online language testing, and the problems in this area have been re-produced. It could be long-term because these minor or larger problems related to nationality training are different in almost all training places, but they appear. We consider it a systemic general problem that while, at all levels of ethnic public education, in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, all ethnic education institutions are guaranteed to have at least the right of opinion by law, and in the case of national minority public education institutions, there is a right of understanding and veto on all substantive issues, whereas in the decisions of higher education on ethnic education, nationalities in Hungary have neither the right to agree nor to comment on educational institutions, and even basic orientation is extremely difficult and cumbersome, most of the time afterwards we are aware of the decisions of universities and colleges concerning ethnic education, which are not only detrimental to us. In the field of higher education, the 2011 CCIV provides information on the coordination with nationalities. Article 64 of the National Higher Education Act. Paragraph 4 of the Act requires: The Minister obtains the opinion of the National National Nationality Council in his decisions regarding ethnic education. If, under the national minority rights law, the national minority self-government initiates the establishment of conditions for higher education in the mother tongue or mother tongue..., it will ensure the conditions. At the same time, in the new universities undergoing a model change, which are going to become a foundation reserve, the Boards will take over the role of the State as a maintainer, and instead of the Minister, the Boards will decide, for example, on the strategic issues of universities, which also deals with ethnic education, including, of course, on issues relating to ethnic education, so we thought that the obligation to obtain opinions required by the Higher Education Act should be extended to the Minister, in the same way, to the Board's decisions on ethnic education. Therefore, T/15728 applies to this purpose. On 12 April 2021, I tabled a separate amendment to the bill on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws, which was adopted by the Committee on Culture and subsequently by Parliament. According to my accepted amendment, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 73. The following paragraph 3a is added to Article 3a of the Act:. The National Nationality Council shall obtain the opinion of the national minority council in its decisions in respect of national minority training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a big step forward for the future, but it's still just the front of the road. Obviously, the obligation to ask for an opinion should be extended to decisions on ethnic education by deans, senates and deans of national minority departments. It is also necessary to examine the decisions that are of major importance for national minority education, such as the establishment, reorganisation, termination, the appointment of head of department, the budget of the Department of Nationality and the rest, where the obligation of consultation and the right of agreement should be given to the National Parliamentary Council instead of the request for an opinion, as is provided for the relevant national minority self-governments in the national minority education institutions. On this basis, I think it is indisputable that there is an urgent and very serious need for further progress in the area of higher education in the field of nationality, both in terms of the necessary additional support for nationality and in terms of regulation and organisation. I will continue to ask Parliament and your help. Mr President, Dear House, In my 20-minute speech yesterday, I said that the 13 indigenous ethnicities in Hungary are T/16118. It intends to submit a total amendment of HUF 2 billion of HUF 970.3 million to the draft law on Hungary's central budget in 2022, and then I fully explained the areas of nationality of the amendments, and I explained them in detail. The additional aid claimed has been objectively necessary in recent years, particularly in the last two years. In detailing the support needs, I indicated that I would like to talk about this in more detail today, which I would like to do today, with HUF 350 million in support of the operational and management tasks of the ethnic public education institutions. As I said yesterday, taking over the rights of maintenance and the ownership of movable and immovable property to perform educational and educational tasks by the national minority authorities has created a radically new situation, which requires not only the necessary restructuring of funding and support, but also major organisational, regulatory and management changes. We have been looking for the best solution for years to secure the organisational framework. As a temporary solution, we provided the German Pedagogical Institute of Hungary with three main additional status in 2017, mainly through their work we were able to resolve the introduction, extension, continuous implementation of the minority pedagogical scholarship system, and professionally assist in the process of taking over ethnic educational institutions by local ethnic authorities as well as other tasks. [[10.00]] In the meantime, however, it has also become clear that we do not want to carry out all the activities required by national pedagogical institutions, of course, those which do not have a nationality dimension, but on the other hand we have to solve a series of ethnic tasks, vital ethnic tasks, which are not or are not possible under the general rules on pedagogical institutions. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Therefore, after long discussions with the Ministry of Human Capacities State Secretary for Public Education and the Prime Minister's Office, we have come to the hope that the final solution will be that at the end of the last year we have terminated the German Institute of Pedagogics in Hungary, and we have established the German Educational Centre in Hungary instead, whose scope can be defined relatively freely, according to the actual needs. Thus, among other things, the methodological centre will be responsible for providing technical assistance, in addition to the pedagogical and professional assistance of national minority educational institutions taken over by local ethnic authorities, in terms of legal, economic, regulatory and even renovations and investments. This methodological centre, like the implementation of the minority educator-student scholarship system, provides the necessary and required extent for the three other nationalities involved in the local minority self-government maintenance of national minority education institutions, i.e. Romanian, Croatian and Slovak institutions. For this activity, four statuses and the necessary financial support were requested in the draft amendment submitted to the national minority budget for 2022. The basic problem needs to be addressed, inter alia, by means of the methodological centre, by an annual analysis and review of the elementary-level budgets of public education institutions maintained by local ethnic authorities and by a uniform assessment of the same principles, from the national minority supplementary framework with a single decision provided at the central level, every year, to provide all ethnic public education institutions with the necessary and sufficient additional support to enable them to finance the additional costs that vary annually or sometimes occur every year, and to ensure a smooth, balanced and efficient management. In the case of national minority institutions maintained by national governments, especially the larger nationalities, where more institutions are maintained, the national minority self-government may, if necessary, transfer within the year between the institutions and even at the expense of its reserves, possibly over the year. Local self-governments are both independent legal entities, there is no possibility of transferring from one to another during the year, and there is no possibility of making savings in a given year due to a major expenditure for the following year, there has been this occasional edition of the Jubilee Prize, the purchase of long-term textbooks, the payment of the basically free cost of eating in the event that the normative does not cover it, and there is still a long list of issues and difficulties to be solved in a combined, comprehensive management. On this basis, I respectfully ask you, all the factions, independent representatives and, of course, the government, to support the amendment of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, in order to ensure the future of the ethnicity of our children and grandchildren, on the basis of what has been said, and in the hope that we will support T/16118. adoption of the amended bill on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-05-21-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Sándor Burány, Deputy Head of the Group of the Dialogue Group, informed me that the Group of the Dialogue for Hungary in the debate will waive the further timeframe of the group for the benefit of the MSZP Group. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Dániel Z. Carpathian: What belongs together!]] I would ask my colleagues to modify the timeframes according to the announcements. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Farkas, an independent congressman. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If someone has been following up on the budget debate over the past two days, they have heard a number of speeches from policy approaches. I would like to approach the budget from a slightly different perspective, from an age-class perspective. In this respect, we have heard speeches, for example, my fellow Members from the opposition on pensioners rightly demanded a pension increase or a change in the way pensions are raised. I'd like to talk to you about another age group. This age group is one of my most critical age groups. It would be the young people in their early 20s and thirties who I dare say that the most critical age group, because if we think a little about their situation, the moment, the years when they leave the school bench, exit the high school, secondary school, university benches, we can see that they are the ones who, if they find that they cannot get to work, can't get to the two, they can't put aside, they can't get to a home within a certain period of time, they won't have an apartment available to them, then they are the simplest ones who can say that they are going abroad, wandering away, don't give up, say, another aspect important to a nation, they don't have as many children as they want because they don't dare to take on as much. That is why I say that young people in their 20s, and young people in their early thirties, can still be listed here, I feel that in many ways this government is forgetting. We often feel like you're missing 10-15 years, when, for example, in the case of youth, you're always coming with baby shower credit, with the CSOK and with a few other small grants, but you have to see that a young person today is not going to buy the most apartment in his 20s, but rather in his mid-30s, he's going to get to the point where he's going to find his life mate to, say, think about a baby shower loan. In parentheses, I would add that it would also be worth examining separately what many have already talked about, how these subsidies have been incorporated into the prices of real estate, and, in fact, it is often questionable how much meaningful assistance can be provided in the purchase of a property, an apartment, a house, and a parentheses closed. On the other hand, you often seem to have a budget of this age group in your twenties that is not properly taken care of. We have also heard such lines in the budget here in the debate that support for families with children will be further expanded in the budget. It's all very nice and good, but we've got to get to that point. If these young people see that this country does not value them and go abroad, they will not get this far, or if they do, their children will be born abroad. Unfortunately, many young Hungarians still have children abroad, unfortunately they do not come home in many cases. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in such cases, this budget does not provide adequate support for this age group. 'Cause what does a young man have to face when he leaves the school bench? With unrealistically high rent prices, you can either choose this, which is not easy to manage, or you can stay at the mama hotel, which we know very well is not exactly the right choice, often rather a forced choice. What else can he face? With low salaries, only because of its age, taking into account the average Hungarian wages and the fact that housing is not solved in this respect. [[10.10]] In fact, you may even face the fact that, say, student loans have to be repaid, which I have said many times, that to date, it is completely nonsense for me that you, together with the student loans, communicate successfully with the student credit institution, are pleased that young people are forced to indebte themselves. And then, when they're there, they start working, and then they can pay you back in addition to the rents, the low wages, and they can even pay you back. And I'll tell you one more time, your answer, the baby shower, and the CSOK will be for them later. However, there has been a small step forward, and I should also like to talk about it, that, since we are talking about young people in their 20s, this is the freedom that you and our votes have accepted, including my vote in favour. It is a small mistake of beauty that this will take effect from 1 January next year, despite the fact that you refer to it as part of the recovery package, the economic recovery package. You believe that we do not need to restart the economy yet, and that we have time to give this support from next January. But there is another problem with this, along with the fact that this small step in itself is a step forward, but it is worth considering in itself, let us say, if a young person can use it by the age of 25, how much help it is for him. Let's think about a college graduate: at the age of 23-24, she finishes the basic course, then she finishes the master's course, and then, let's say, in good times, there's a year and a half when she can make use of this sja-free. That's the biggest problem. That is why I myself said in the debate on this bill introducing the tax exemption that it would be necessary to raise this, let's say, until at least 30 years of age. For example, you often refer to Poland. It is also worth mentioning here that Poland has this discount until the age of 29. And it also includes the fact that this measure was taken in Poland not because of the crisis caused by the coronal virus, but before they considered it important to support young people. And you have now come up with this because of the Crown Crisis or the epidemic situation that it is important to introduce it, and then from 1 January next year. So I think that this is a big difference, and it also points out the difference in attitude. So it would be very important, for example, for this age group, that if the government could not directly increase wages, it could, indirectly, take steps to help young people start their lives, young people in their 20s. One more thing. I also mentioned housing, because the baby shower, which you have been saying a lot about, is a lot more likely to come to these young people later. With regard to housing, let's say, a young couple in their 20s or even a young couple to talk about them, they would most likely be helped by municipal rentals, which would be available to them at a price lower than the market price. In this context, it would be logical for you to expand this supply, to enter into such a programme, such rental-building programmes, to help these young people to obtain housing at a lower rate than the market price, especially at lower rates than the current unrealistic rental prices. On the other hand, what do we see? Last week, László Böröcz submitted his proposal, which has since become infamous, which makes the exact opposite of that, exactly what he does is that the current municipal rentals are being sold out. Let us add, of course, that it is possible to communicate that it is used to support the people who are living in it, but it is just that these people are mostly in a difficult financial situation, who do not have enough money to buy these apartments, and in many cases they are not creditworthy. So, probably here too, these apartments will be able to get different speculators, and overall, they will reduce the number of apartments instead of increasing, because if they increase the supply, more young people will be able to take advantage of this opportunity and even lower prices. You're doing the exact opposite, which is a huge mistake and, in my opinion, a historical crime, that you're going in this direction instead of expanding this stock. To sum up, I urge you to support this, to a much greater extent than the current one, I say once again, the age group in a critical situation, whether it is housing or extending the sjaja exemption, and many other measures by which you show these young people that they can count on the Government of Hungary, they can count on their country, their country supports them, and then they will give the right answer that they will plan a future here, their children will be born here, they will raise these children here, which I think is an interest in parties. That is why I dare to encourage you to take these steps. In the remainder of my speech, I would like to talk about the constituency I represent, which is the 5th constituency of Bács-Kiskun county with the Kiskunhalas centre. Unfortunately, what we need to know about this constituency is that it is very difficult, very difficult. Among other things, one of the ten poorest walks of the country, the district of Bácsalmás with its nine settlements, but the other settlements cannot boast of very good indicators and statistics. There is indeed a need for help here, but we do not really see that, in the light of next year's budget, there will be any change and progress, and there would be a need for ageing villages, for migration beyond the national average, which I would normally have to add, not a sense of adventure, but forced displacement from living, low wages. And we don't really see the outburst, we don't see the outburst, because new jobs don't really exist, wages are low. Here it should be added that a very important factor in keeping wages low is that there are a lot of migrant workers working in agriculture or in other factories and businesses, and these migrant workers are, as a matter of fact, at a much lower rate, as this is also an improvement compared to what they would receive at home in their own country. Here we can talk about Romanian, Serbian, but even such Indian, Mongolian and many other countries, all of whom can be found in the constituency. In this way, it should also be added that there is a kind of disguised population exchange there, because these migrant workers are coming, while the Hungarian people living there are forced to migrate because of low wages, better only to Budapest or even to the western counties of the country, in worse cases abroad, because they cannot support their families, and in return, I say once again, these migrant workers are coming. We don't really see the break-out point, we don't really see the creation of new jobs, or the government being able to support or support businesses to the extent that, let's say, they could create a substantial wage increase from these subsidies, because I may be unfortunate, but I always meet entrepreneurs who complain that somehow they don't get government support, or they don't have a proposal that they can use, and without them, it's hard to raise wages. One of the things about the break-out points here is that, if we are talking about how wages could be raised, one way could be to attract new businesses, major companies into the region, because they might be able to provide higher wages than the average wages in the constituency, or to create a competitive position that would require higher wages for workers. Unfortunately, our constituency is not attractive to these companies, to new businesses at the moment. One of the break-out points could be, we know very well that, let's say, in these companies, an important aspect is the construction of transport infrastructure, such as the M9 motorway, which is a serious deficiency and failure of this government. The design started in 2003, when the Danube Bridge in Szekszárd was completed, which is a small part of this planned M9, and since then neither left-wing governments nor Fidesz have made any progress in 11 years, nor do we really see when it will. At the beginning of the year, there was a communication from the government about the M9, but it had the funny one, on the one hand, and the sad and tragic one, on the other hand, that even the two representatives of the government made conflicting statements. So we don't even know how, once we finally get to that point, where this M9 is going to be built, and it doesn't matter that from the point of view of Kecel, Kiskunhalas, Jánoshalma, Bácsalmas and the other settlements, how they can plan, what prospects they have, or even if someone is thinking about choosing our constituency or this region as their future location, let's say where to plan. [[10.20]] Accelerating the construction of the M9 motorway would be a very important thing for the constituency, a kind of breakout point. However, not only are such high-demand plans, such as the construction of the expressway, it would in itself be a step forward if the roads currently in place were in good condition. This is not only a constant criticism of opposition, but even the pro-government representative recognised the untenable nature of the roads there, as in 2018 he promised to complete a number of roads that would be important. Unfortunately, these roads have not been completed. Such is the road between Kecel-Kiskunhalas, Bácsalmás-Mélykút, Jánoshalma and Highway 54, or the road between Kecel-Cesar Loading-Hajós and Bácsalmás-Csikéria-Tompa, and a number of roads that are in terrible condition could still be classified. And while we are talking about what could be done to improve this area, these should be mentioned. And I have a few more things to mention in the short time that I have left, which would also be an important development in the constituency, and as I have tabled a number of amendments to these, as I have done so far. The pavements of the settlements of the constituency are in such a bad condition in many settlements, which in the dark may be dangerous, but it is not possible to push a stroller in many places in a normal way. In part, there would be a need to repair existing cycling routes, to set up new ones, and to propose amendments to a number of specific urban needs, such as the problem of rainwater drainage in Kiskunhalas for decades, the improvement of the drinking water quality of Jánoshalma, the establishment of indoor roads in Bácsamás, Deep-Kút and Tampa, the industrial park in Kecel or the green waste reservoir in Kecel. And I have tabled a number of other amendments, which I have already submitted in part in recent years. I stand by them consistently. I would ask the government actors to acknowledge at last that you should not look at who is submitting these amendments, but at whose benefit it is for. These are people living in the constituency, including Fidesz. If nothing else, think of them when they vote on these amendments. In the hope that they will be supported, at least with them in mind, I ask for the support of my proposals for amending the budget in order to help the people of the constituency. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-21-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2021-05-21-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Farkas in a few things, because he spoke for a long time about the support of young people, but he forgot to mention the free KRESZ exam, the free language exam and the preferences that young people receive. And if we are talking about next year's budget, then we cannot leave without saying one of the biggest subsidies, with the exception of those under the age of 25. Congressman, if you look at it, you received 55 percent of the gross salary of a young person under 25 years of age in 2008, which will be 81.5 percent from 1 January 2022. That is the difference between the two governments, the Balliberal Government and the Christian Democrat national government towards young people: 55 percent and 81 percent, which remains with the youth from their gross salary. I think it's a huge thing. Similarly, the support for home creation, the baby shower, the tax relief of young married people, the CSOK, and many other examples that can be used by those who want to start a family, turn to a single life and create a home. Congressman has brought the local estates here as well. From the youth research data, you know this as well as I do, because we have often debated these issues in recent years, it is clear that young people want property. You want to push them into a rental program for the rest of their lives, but 85 percent of young people say that they want to get their own property as soon as possible, so that they can have the apartment, the independent nest, from which they can further develop their job search, their entrepreneurship. These are extremely important programmes, for example, programmes to help young people become entrepreneurs from EU funds have been launched in recent years and in the new development cycle. And speaking of your constituency, you should only have wished Mr Bányai for a cure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-25	Mr President, Dear House, I looked forward to my normal speech with sufficient restraint, but the things I said call for a reaction. My dear fellow Member Nacsa, if you are committed to solving the housing situation of young Hungarians, tell me why the state support of the LTP system has been abolished. Why did they take away the only opportunity for young Hungarians to, say, crouch for a loan from their incredibly low, terribly low salary compared to the value of their work? I believe that a few or two ten thousand HUF differences between 55 and 80 percent will be brought here by a strangely distorted statistic, and I have no problem with that, politics is like that. Just consider, my fellow Member, that a much larger amount of money is allowed out of the other pocket of young people, for example, with a 27 percent record rate of VAT, such as kicking out the state leg of housing savings. This is why the pre-2010 era cannot be held responsible. For many things, yes, but you did this, my fellow Member. They took away this very, very important slice of the future from young people. And he's bringing in a search of the local government's rental property. Well, what weak people you work with, that only 85 percent of you said you wanted your own property! Everyone wants you, my fellow Member. Everyone, if they had a choice, would want their own property for a rental. But finally, step out of the bubble of opinion, realize that there are less fortunate people than you, there are some people who are unable to acquire independent property from family donations. To them, an affordable rental means life many times, my fellow Member, the chance of success in the homeland, the opportunity. They don't want to take that away from the Hungarian people. Rescind László Böröcz's law of home-privatization. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-21-26	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr. Gergely Farkas, an independent congressman.
u2021-05-21-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleague Nacha, It is true that he feels that he is not realistic about the situation of young people, not talking widely enough. Not only should we talk to the young people of Fidelitas and IKSZ, for whom it may be natural for parents to put an apartment under them. This isn't about putting them in a rental apartment. My fellow Member, Nacsa, there are degrees here. You know, they quit the school bench, and they don't have 20, 30, 40 million in their pockets to buy an apartment, but they want to go to a sublet first. But rents are so expensive that it would be much more helpful if they could get a flat at a much lower price than the market price and go there, save money, work, save money, and maybe at the age of 35, they could buy a flat with the help of the baby shower and the CSOK - that's the grade. That is why it is a huge sin and a historical sin, which you are now doing with the rental system, and that you are not dealing with the housing of young people at this level, but that you are thinking only of self-ownership. Everyone wants it to be important, but it's not the first step, it's a later step. That's what I wanted to draw your attention to. And once again, it would be worth talking to others as widely as possible, perhaps you would see the situation of young people a little more clearly. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-21-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, The budget submitted by the Government for 2022 is the budget for the re-launch of the country. I would now like to address the agricultural chapter in my speech, including support for agriculture and rural development. The government's priority is to develop and support knowledge-based, sustainable and internationally competitive agricultural and food production, stable and quality food production, while at the same time taking the necessary measures to make the living countryside flourish. In order to achieve this goal, both EU and domestic funding have been provided in the 2022 budget. In addition to the Agricultural Ministry chapter on support for agriculture and rural development, the Economic Re-launch Fund Chapter, which includes the allocation of national agricultural support, and the EU Development Chapter of the Economic Re-launch Fund also provides resources. [[10.30]] According to the draft, nearly HUF 830 billion can be paid for agricultural and rural development aid in 2022, of which national subsidies financed from purely domestic budgets amount to more than HUF 90 billion, EU co-financed market grants to HUF 30.8 billion, direct grants purely EU-funded HUF 471 billion, and rural development and fisheries programmes to HUF 234.5 billion. First, let us look at the direct grants financed by so-called first pillar EU funds, which appear in the annex to the draft budget. This is perhaps the most well-known and popular form of support, which farmers call area aid in the first place. Direct aid will also be available to producers in 2022 under the rules applicable from 2015. The planned amount of direct support from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund in the 2022 budget is HUF 471 billion, which represents more than a double increase compared to 2010. A so-called transitional period will be introduced in 2021 and 2022, due to the prolonged negotiation of the new rules of the common agricultural policy in the EU. Under the transitional provisions, the current conditionality, which, in turn, includes basic aid, greening, young farmers' support, support for small farms, so-called production-related subsidies, can be applied for in the future, also in the 2022 application year. However, financial cover will, of course, be provided by the new budget. If we ignore any changes in the number of territorial and animal data requested for each item and the official exchange rate, the aid rates for 2022 are expected to be set at the year 2021. This means that the expected amount of basic subsidies will be HUF 51,000 per hectare, and the associated greening rate is expected to reach HUF 29 thousand per hectare. The two together issue the classic area payment, which is expected to amount to about HUF 80,000 per hectare. This comes with the other items I mentioned earlier, of course, if the conditions are met. The so-called first pillar grants include market subsidies, which will amount to HUF 30.8 billion, of which HUF 17.8 billion will be EU funds and HUF 13 billion will be financed from the domestic budget. This item is intended to cover the support of the wine sector, the bee-keeping national programme, school milk, school fruit schemes and producer organisations. The two-pillar support shall mean rural development and fisheries programmes financed by the EAFRD. Forint 234.5 bn was set to finance them, which exceeds the sum of HUF 31 bn in 2021. The government's historic decision to increase the rate of national co-financing to 80 per cent for the 2021-2027 years has tripled the amount available for rural development. As a first step, the rules for the 2014-2020 programme have already been launched in 2021 and calls for proposals will be launched, the first payment of which will be made in 2022. A new call for proposals has already been launched this year: irrigation support, gardening, planting, renewal of livestock farms, development of crop stores, dryers and cleaners. Also this year will be a new call for proposals for the development of local roads outside the area, gardening, support for the development of mushroom production plants, support for the renewal of gardening plants, support for precision improvements related to the digital transition of agriculture, support for the development of food plants. Finally, I would like to talk about national agricultural subsidies; this means 100% of the subsidies financed from domestic funds. In the next year's budget proposal, HUF 77.3 billion was added to this item. This will mean that the level of support for the national items of priority and customary importance for producers will continue to be ensured. The so-called transitional national aid remains under the current conditions. This will primarily provide support for the cattle, milk, sheep and tobacco sectors. The government continues to pay particular attention to helping sectors not directly supported by the EU; I am thinking of the pig and poultry sectors. Since 2010, these sectors have been assisted through animal welfare support titles and have tripled since 2010 in both the pig and poultry sectors. Prevention of animal diseases and disposal of animal corpses are presented at HUF 12.5 and HUF 4.5 billion respectively. A number of so-called de minimis aids are announced annually. The beneficiaries of this are the bovine, ovine, caprine, bee-keeping, rabbit, fish, meat pigeon, fruit, grapes, tobacco, spice paprika sectors, and a number of others could still be classified. The plan includes HUF 800 million in support of the field guard service in order to ensure the security of the farmers' assets. It is also an important objective to improve the conditions for financing the agricultural economy in 2022. This means preferential lending, in particular interest rate subsidies or guarantee premiums, which will continue to be granted. There is a need to talk about the agricultural compensation fund, which, I believe, has been working successfully since 2011, has a number of about 75 thousand members, but since 2011, the conditions have remained unchanged, it has become necessary to review the Fund's resources. The decision has been taken: both from the budgetary side and from the producer's contribution side, the rate increases by 50%. In this way, it is expected that some HUF 13 billion will be added to the fund. The proposal includes 3.5 billion for animal and plant compensation. Finally, I would also like to mention the gas oil refund for agricultural use, the partial excise duty refund, which is about HUF 30 billion, which is also included in the proposal next year. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I believe that the financing of agriculture will continue next year, which is why I am asking for your support in voting on the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-31	Mr President, Dear House, A budget debate is a battle of worlds, and a lot of topics are viewed by everyone in their own opinion bubble, but there is definitely a failing area that I would like to confront the government, and that is the issue of housing. In Hungary, without exaggeration, society is split in two, this government provides a very narrow and otherwise highlighted discount, gives them extra favors, pampers them, and for a very wide circle, minimal quotes or even less drips. About 2.5 million of our countrymen are struggling with the various symptoms of housing poverty, but from extreme poverty to lack of renovation programmes, there is no doubt that 2.5 million of our countrymen are in the circle who have not received substantial assistance over the last 11 years in relation to their housing problems. At the same time, it has already been mentioned today that the state's support for housing savings for young people and small people has been abolished by this government. [[10.40]] At the time, he promised that the Rogán housing lotteries would replace this in a certain circle, but perhaps the Rogán housing lotteries concept is one of the five most infamous projects of this government. He cannot be accused of carrying life chances for young Hungarians. We also see that not only did this government do not create a rental program in 11 years, it also tries to live up and out the existing rental property, partly for its own minions for pennies, at a discounted price. We also see that there was a brutal price explosion on the real estate market, but when journalists were asked, not only we, the Minister for the field, how much they thought there was a price increase on the market thanks to the CSOK, the answer was that I do not know. So the government was completely unprepared for its own draft and the market effects it had on it. By the way, the Secretary of State pointed out this yesterday's statement, so a professional organisation's statement, asking you, the government, to resolve the guarantee of secure purchases in large quantities, as far as building materials are concerned. I think that a layman, an outside observer, would not have thought for a moment that the Government of Hungary would go through changes in the construction sector without assessing its effects. So it could be two scenarios. You have assessed the impact of your own amendment, but you have not managed to address this area, so you have not been able to eliminate price increases, you have not been able to make extremely difficult purchases, say, interstate contracts, other ways, the even worse scenario is that you have not dealt with this whole thing, only the well-sounding panels have been pushed in as a part of a schematic system, then someone has been put in a bill to do so, and it has not been assessed at all what effect this will have on the market. Before you accuse me of it, Mr Secretary, I do not wish to harm the CSOK as an institution at all, I would just like to highlight the injustice. You may not be able to defend the fact that a ten million discount can be put in the pocket for Balaton construction when the affected person, no matter how we judge his professional or other activities, he does not need this discount to be guaranteed. Therefore, it is not a beneficiary whose life situation would be substantially improved by this amount, it would, where appropriate, help him to fulfil his plans to expand his family. Obviously, we don't want to pry into anyone's personal life, but it's not likely that it's for someone in need. At the same time, we see that in the case of young people struggling with average pay, who, let's say, want to break out of a flat, cannot be realised by such a crowd of support, but only by a subsidised bank loan. Thus, with a ministerial salary, a discount of ten million and, in typical situations of life, a preferential bank loan if the intermediary bank so decides. Because the intermediary bank can at any time say that he does not consider this young person to be creditworthy or does not support it with the amount of credit that the application is about. We've already talked about housing prices, but maybe we haven't talked about rental prices yet. For me, it was sobering how much XIX. The government's thinking of this market is in the first century, because when the Airbnb phenomenon appeared in Hungary, the sharing economy and other new types of services began to take out former sub-leases from the market, and by thousands, the Government of Hungary simply did not understand the problem. Then, after a year or two, he did not regulate this market, but first he put in certain prohibitions, which I believe to be the 21st. In the first century it was not a good way to deal with this market, and then, in a cowardly and unmanly way, it moved the whole Airbnb issue to the municipalities, saying that the municipalities struggling with the lack of resources would settle this issue. The Government of Hungary did not have the courage to do this. The result: rents have more than doubled in certain districts, not only in the capital, in a way that goes far or far beyond the minimum increase in salaries, and the number of young people is in a situation where the cost of housing has already consumed more than 50% of the family budget. It's an amazing situation. The Government of Hungary could not handle this whole issue, even though it is a simple economic issue that is in Mr. State Secretary's finger. I'm talking to an excellent professional, now a little one-sided, of course, with some friendly provocative intent to get answers. The fact is, Mr State Secretary, that in a market where supply is scarce, a steady rise in prices can actually be guaranteed. The Government of Hungary has had a year in the last ten years when so few newly built real estates have been built in Hungary, it is a number starting with seven thousand, which would only allow the four hundred years of exchange of real estate. What should we do with a panel house in Frog County if it has to be in its present form for 400 years? It's obviously nonsense. Now the numbers have improved a little, and we're about to change the property stock every 159 years. Some of the better-built homes may still be able to do this with many, many renovations, but at systemic level, the profession expects the real estate stock to be replaced within a few decades so that housing cataclysms do not develop or poverty does not get ugly. We couldn't get here. But there is a market where there is even more scarcity, and this is the rental market. Now, when Congressman Böröcz is trying to protect the indefensible and justifies this house-privatisation thief law, he himself said at committee level that they are thinking of 60-70 thousand apartments and that the total size of the tenement is not much more than what this proposal is about. This alone is your poverty certificate and your amazing admission, you should spin hundreds of thousands of apartments on the Hungarian market, give discounts to young Hungarians, and stand up, Congressman Nacsa, and say that they measured it, and 85 percent of Hungarian young people want to own property. I think it's 101 percent. Well, of course everyone wants to, but they're less fortunate than you. There are people who have been forced to rent, who cannot be supported by the family, who have not been able to carry a larger item as a government relative from the Covid loan for those in need. There are such ordinary Hungarian people. The government doesn't think about them. I see that while you save on the mass construction of apartments, you tell us that you are eating up the Hungarian future so that now Zsolt Bayer and a couple of Fidesz-close minions, who have acquired the right to rent under strange circumstances, let's say, in the Castle of Buda, they can now acquire a property for ever at a price of penny, without the condition that they may not sell it if necessary. Yes, you can. A year after the acquisition, they can practically beat the national fortune. I know this spontaneous privatization attitude from an earlier era, and I don't want it back. You don't do it either. Take back this hideous thing. The solution was placed on the table in 2011. The concept of home-creation and rental-building, called "Our Castle," returns to all other opposition parties under such brands and in such forms. There is no debate between us in the opposition about the need for a rental scheme, precisely so that the less fortunate also have life opportunities. Minister of State, the Hungarian economy is capable and capable of building 5 to 10 thousand apartments a year, a new builder, and a half-million-dollar vacant property is specifically reviewed in a way that focuses on apartments. If we bring only one tenth of these back to Hungarian life and to Hungarian blood circulation as a rental, we have helped a lot, and then, after building this tenant mass from budgetary sources each year, half of the increase can be sold to former tenants under preferential conditions. It's a win-win situation. Hungary's national assets are growing. The rental property allocated to the management of municipalities is increasing. In Hungary, young people can thrive in their homeland, who become taxpayers here, have children here, and do not go abroad under duress. Fourthly, a long-term tenant can buy at a discount at the expense of half the increase. Why is it that everyone can see that this is a working, good concept, that Hungary's Government alone is the only obstacle to us being able to carry this through? So I call on you to contribute to the transfer of intelligent thoughts, not just to press your own mantra, that every young Hungarian wants to own property, because of course, of course, there is, but some are not so lucky to be able to realize this within the next 15 years. You might think that you're trying to make a living abroad, and I don't want that. I want anyone who wants to live happily in their homeland and start a family to do so under all circumstances. I call on the Government of Hungary to make sure there are no obstacles. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-21-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, of course. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-05-21-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your comment. It was about an important area, housing and construction, but at the same time there was a statement that I had to argue with. [[10.50]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, you have said that housing is a failing area. It also drew attention to the rise in prices, and I think that we can make the first important finding. In particular, in a market economy, demand and supply determine price developments. That's the basic situation. It has to be seen that, yes, demand for housing has increased. Why? Because the population's income has increased. Let me say that from 2012 onwards, average earnings and real earnings have increased substantially. Net average earnings were 86.6% higher in 2020 compared to 2012. In terms of net real earnings, i.e. inflation, it's 63 percent. So, with his first claim to God, he drew attention to the fact that in recent years there has been an economic expansion in Hungary that has resulted in an increase in the number of people employed and wages, and, by definition, families have also bought apartments from additional income. What can the state do in this situation? In addition to the fact that an economic policy has been implemented that has resulted in an increase in incomes, the state has concentrated heavily on housing. How can you intervene in a market economy on the demand and supply side? Let's look at the demand side. In addition to the increase in wages, they are targeted at young people who are thinking about having a family, having children, and who already have children, with extra support. Congressman also said that this assistance is differentiated, more helpful for the better, less for the poor. Let me argue with that. We know precisely that the benefit for three children is HUF 10 million, and, as a rule, this benefit is also available for one or two children, so it is available to everyone as well as the loan. So one of the real help is home-building support. The other substantial help, which is again completely independent of income, helping families think about renovation, is a source of three million forints. We have recently discussed the budget for 2021, and the parliamentary decision is still ahead of us, if the Member considers this to be important, he will vote in favour of this year's budget of HUF 120 billion for this measure, which, by the way, serves to restart the economy. And last but not least, on the demand side, let me say that the young people, whom you have highlighted, can now work without paying personal income tax under the age of 25 if the 2022 budget is adopted. So it's an extra help that, if you live in your apartment, it'll be easier to pay your rent, and an extra help to save your life in order to get home. And then let's look at the supply side. Let us not forget that there were serious measures. What could the government do? On the one hand, VAT rates were reduced and even tax exemptions were imposed, so real estate is cheaper because of VAT reductions. Of course, in the long term, supply and demand in a market economy determines the conditions, but the VAT reduction has an impact on an immediate price. Secondly, we encourage the supply market, the construction of homes, with targeted measures for the construction economy. Last year alone, companies in the construction sector received HUF 12 billion to increase their efficiency and create more apartments. What was the result? I'm going to finish my comment with this. Construction production increased by 70 percent compared to 2010, which is by far the largest in regional comparison. Again, if we look at Eurostat numbers, compared to the 70 percent increase in Hungary, much more new apartments are being built now than they were built a few years ago in Poland, 16.4 percent of this increase, a slight decline in the Czech Republic, a drop in Slovakia, an average of 0.9 percent in the EU. I repeat, we have 70 percent more apartments per year than in 2010. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: The base was low.]] Yes, the base was low, and we achieved some pretty serious results in international comparison, thank God. This also shows that the Hungarian economy has increased more than the EU average. As part of this, the number of apartments, the value of the new apartments increased, and thanks to God, economic growth, there are additional budgetary resources that have helped families to get home, whether it is home-building support, whether it is home-refurbishing or home-creating young people under 25 years of age. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-34	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Group, who, by the way, should be allowed to give a special welcome here in Parliament with great respect and affection. I believe this is the first time Congressman has spoken since his return. Welcome.
u2021-05-21-35	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the words of honour and for the words of sympathy. One clarification: for the first time on the agenda, I have already had a speech off the agenda. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We are debating the draft budget law 2022 here in Parliament today, and this is the last day of debate, and we are in a good position to comment on the bill before us with due moderation, but also using the experience and message of those before us. When I began to think about my contribution, its content, I immediately remembered the fate of the budget that was announced or adopted in 2010. What was the state of 2010? Because it is important to determine where we started in 2010. On the one hand, the budget deficit exceeded 3 per cent, well above 3 per cent, which was above the EU's expectations. Unemployment was very high, we talked about unemployment above 10 percent, and the Hungarian economy was on a growing path of debt in view of GDP-proportionality. In such a situation, the European Union should have taken action before 2010, for example in relation to the excessive deficit procedure. He did not do this during left-wing governance, but in 2010 he immediately put Hungary on the bench of shame, and under such circumstances we had to pull ourselves out of the deep water by our own hair. This was served by the unorthodox economic policy, which was also used by the so-called economists introduced at the time, which resulted in the budget deficit falling below 3 per cent, unemployment fell below 5 per cent, and even much less, and the consequences of the excessive deficit procedure were also solved, so Hungary could stand up from that particular bench of shame. Why did I list these records? Because there is experience, there is evidence that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian governments that have been regressing since 2010, have been able to solve this difficult economic situation, this difficult legacy has been eliminated, and they have put the Hungarian economy on a growing path, including wage growth, maintaining inflation and reducing unemployment. [[11.00]] I have listed these because we are in a similar situation, essentially due to external circumstances and due to the measures caused by the coronal virus epidemic, so there has been a slight increase in unemployment during the epidemic that has now returned to its original starting point and the state's indebtedness has also increased. But what is the huge difference compared to 2010? In 2010, the new government did not have the opportunity, for example, to touch an economic re-launch action plan. Today's draft budget will be an important, essential and good tool for this economic re-launching action plan, because it is a goal again to set the country on a growth path; in doing so, we will continue to support families with children, our home creation programmes, and we will be able to raise or restore the 13th month pension, and for those under the age of 25 who have income, to grant tax relief and tax exemptions. This budget, if we look at it, is the country's reboot budget, which will result in a 4.3 percent increase in GDP in 2021 and an increase of 5.2 percent in 22 percent. If we look at the direction of the budget, we can see that it supports this in every case; everything is focused on the objective of Hungary being one of the most livable countries in Europe. And I trust that by means of the budget, we will succeed in restoring the economy to growth; we will succeed in reducing unemployment and increasing employment. There are also important technical tools. Let me get to energy policy for a moment. The greening of Hungarian energy production continues. An important tool for this is the continuation of Paks II investment, the dynamic participation of solar energy in energy production and the exploration of geothermal energy sources, and it should be added that the gradual deployment of lignite-based coal-based power generation is also expected to require the construction of a new gas base plant. I must add that, by creating an appropriate economic policy and fiscal policy environment, the market itself can solve most of these problems with its market instruments, and Hungarian society will not remain uncertain about the fact that security of supply, sustainable energy production, consumer capacity and the competitiveness of companies will remain and even increase with the instruments introduced. I consider it very important and indicative that the budget will set aside HUF 22 861 million for the EU's LIFE, i.e. for the EU's part of the Environment and Climate Change Programme, to complement this. This means supporting the applications submitted, and I believe that in this respect we can be sure that the goal of neutralising Hungarian energy production from the point of view of emissions by 2050 can be achieved. It is also important to add that the direction to support the operating costs of municipalities will continue. There is a surplus of around HUF 100 billion in the budget compared to the 2020 budget, if I have seen the figures correctly. Of this, about HUF 50 billion was provided for the completion of the programme "Modern Cities" to launch the projects that have not yet been launched, which is among the findings of the Modern Cities programme. As to how important this is, I must underline with an important figure, namely the city of Érd, that between 2019 and 2022 it is included in the box "General support for the operation of municipalities" if we look at the data that this has increased by 37.14 percent. So the fact that the municipalities are bleeding out by the government is an unfair accusation, because the budget figures also show that this is not the case for a specific city. Plus, if we add that this increase in public education tasks is similar in terms of social and child welfare tasks, and even the government was able to compensate for the loss of business tax revenue, it may have given more in terms of county-righted cities than the actual deficit, I believe that the municipalities, which do not want to be political but want to work for their city, settlement, village, can do so on the basis of the 202 budget figures. Allow me one more thought: the area of noise protection is also an important issue for my constituency. After long discussions, it is expected and possible that the lack of noise protection investments or the modernisation of existing ones in relation to Érd, Diósd and Törökbálint can take place between 2023-25. The EU's recovery fund can also be used for this and these funds can also be made available in EU proposals. I am sure that the EU will not prevent investment in reducing noise, i.e. promoting environmental quality of life, from being a priority when the government consults these EU bodies. I believe that, overall, we can support a balanced, well adapted draft budget law and a sufficiently flexible, future-serving and guaranteeing, and that this draft is perfectly appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-21-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard from pro-government speakers that this is a reboot budget. We've heard of success propaganda: they've tried to paint the situation in a positive image, according to your world view. Well, let's look at the other side of the coin. I'd like to make very talkative figures and facts in the first part of my speech. Firstly, we see that in recent years, in many decades, there has been an increase in delays in relation to the countries of the region, in contrast to all your claims to the contrary. With regard to the rate of growth, at a time when, until the outbreak of the corona virus, Europe was characterised by growth and stable growth, so this is not a unique story, we see that the countries of the region, Slovakia, Poland have produced significantly better numbers on average, but we should mention that Romania has also been very stable in its approach to the indicators of the Hungarian economy. So here, however, the data for a year when there was a 5% increase here, I think it is not good to highlight, because we have to look at a broader time interval, about ten years, a decade. It can be said that the old economic policy dream to approach Austria is still remote. An analytical newspaper article states that we only need ten thousand more to sleep to catch up with Austria once things are going well. So I think it can be said that this Hungarian dream, the achievement of Austria's standard of living, is still very distant. [[11.10]] Public debt has been talked about a lot by the Fidesz speakers, referring to problems before 2010. Let's look at it nominally, and this is also talkative: in 2010, the government debt was about HUF 20 000 billion, taking into account the draft by 2022 and using the figures of the draft, the government debt will increase to HUF 45 000 billion according to your plans. This is a significant difference, especially if we include the fact that private pension fund savings have also been spent and used. We are talking about some HUF 3000 billion. Obviously, there was a great social debate about the place and role of these cashiers. One thing is certain, the savings here would have served some of the future's pension payments. They can no longer serve you today because you have spent these resources. So it is worth counting this 3000 billion. The forint has weakened significantly over the past decade. Here, too, I think we should look at the surrounding countries; so let us not look at Western Europe in this matter, let us look at our environment. The forint is more than 34 percent weaker than in 2010 it was unique and very outstanding in the region, the Czech crown is practically in the same place where it has been in the past decade, the Romanian lei weakened about 19 percent and the Polish złoty about 16 percent. However, it can be said that such a huge weakening, i.e. some 34 percent weakening, is not seen anywhere in the region in relation to any currency. So this is a question that we need to cross-reference with your statements from the past. What did Viktor Orbán say in 2004 on this issue? I'm gonna quote a newspaper article here. I have said this several times in budgetary debates, and unfortunately this reference in 2004 is more relevant year after year. That's what the newspaper article says. The weakening of the forint in Orbán means that money is actually stolen from people's pockets, as people who live on wages, salaries and other charges can buy less goods in shops, and pensioners' benefits are less. According to the party leader, the government's references and attempts to weaken the forint can be compared to the medieval king's method, when the rulers tried to minimize the precious metal content of the money, cheating it from its value. And here is a verbatim quote from Viktor Orbán, 2004, once again I say that the weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint is a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. Discuss this, I suggest you discuss it with yourselves. It's a quote from 17 years ago, you've been ruling for many decades. The weakened forint completely contradicts their earlier statements. It is a terrible tragedy that the Hungarians feel the most corrupt of the circumstances of their own country. This is also confirmed by Eurostat's research, so before they point to anything else. The low score for 2020 in this respect is so dramatic that Hungary received such a score before 89. Shame! I think that's something that can be arranged in a word. There will be fewer resources for future education in 22 and you are still not interested in the questions of teachers, students, students, or future generations, as well as the needs of public employees. Eleven years later, only the promise of a wage increase remained. But as has been said from the revelations of several opposition colleagues, there is money for Paks II, Budapest-Belgrade railway line, Liget construction, but there is still 100 billion for public media today. It's a shame, too. What I can tell you is that your budget is, indeed, very little for the sectors affected by the economic crisis and for the families in need. This budget should be about them, but I think that the words of success propaganda that you are saying are not really felt by many families in need in Hungary, and this is a huge problem. Obviously, the parties supporting Gergely Christmas, including the representatives of the MSZP fraction, have also formulated their amendments to these sectors and issues. We've also submitted these on a deadline. I very much hope that you will consider the support of at least some of them. Although the practice of the past years makes me skeptical, let me, as a member of the county of Miskolc, Borsod, also talk about some of my amendments at the end of my speech, which specifically concerns Miskolc and the county of Borsod, and the constituency which I have had the pleasure of representing in the National Assembly, and which I would like to represent in the future, even after 2022, as an individual representative: the second constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. First of all, it was mentioned here on the part of my pro-government colleague before me that the government had given compensation to large cities, even more than it had actually taken away. I don't know what numbers Congressman was looking at. What I can tell you is that Miskolc has suffered an incredible loss of revenue due to government decisions. So not only after the epidemic, as it is natural that during the period of economic downturn, a municipality has less revenue, but you have actually reduced revenues with the question of parking, you have taken away the entire motor vehicle tax from the municipalities, you have taken away public transport's public support, and this is what the local business tax actually came to at the end of last year to split down to a particular circle, and this compensation was involved. But I also dispute that, by the way, it would have been in itself compensation of the magnitude that only the local business tax would have achieved. So, we're talking about a loss of billions. In Western Europe, we see that governments help governments in difficult situations because they have worked on the front line of defence in this busy year and still work on the municipalities. In Western Europe, we see that they do not squeeze local governments, but give them new resources, because municipalities have the most direct contact with people. When you're taken away from local governments, you're taken away from mowing lawns, you're taken away from potholeing, you're thinning the density of bus services, you're taking away from all the things that define people's quality of life, their everyday lives, and you're taking them in a negative direction. That is why I say that this question is outrageous, and, moreover, let us not forget that Fidesz-led county-owned cities have received special treatment, because they have received specific compensation not only in the recent period, but also in the days before Christmas, based on basically tax power, but also, for example, a government decision, according to which larger cities with Fidesz-led county-rights have received HUF 138 million in pieces, i.e. HUF 1.38 billion, subpoenaed: to perform its tasks. So this was it: we always say that Debrecen is a county-righted city to carry out its task, and that is how I could list the individual cities. They probably forgot about Miskolc, let me tell you. [[Peter Benő Banai, shaking his head: No!]] They forgot Miskolc, there was no such line, no matter how he nodded, Secretary of State, I looked at the specific proposal in detail. There was no general provision for such a line. Cities received general compensation, Fidesz leaders, opponents did not, then in December, and some cities received funds for specific purposes, but there were specific goals. Cities that received such a general purpose also received all the funds for specific purposes, but Miskolc received them for a specific purpose, otherwise for a purpose in one of the legs of the programme "Modern Cities" and for the poorly calculated bath investment you made, which goes with the programme "Modern Cities" plus the installation of the spa. So this is where the city got its source. The city was not given the resources needed for public transport, urban management, the formulation and implementation of important urban objectives. I made an amendment. All I ask of you is that you receive the same Miskolc that the surrounding cities, whether Nyíregyháza or Debrecen, received in December: HUF 138 million. Your predecessors have left public transport in a terrible state in Miskolc, and the state of city management is also due to the fact that the city has already owed a significant public service fee in October 2019, we are talking to its own company Miskolc Holding and the companies responsible for each area in total. [[11.20]] This means untenable conditions, so it is difficult to operate. In the beginning, it was difficult to operate in Miskolc, and here comes your policy. This is outrageous. But I will make a suggestion, settle this situation, and the Miskolcs deserve the same treatment as the people living in the surrounding cities. I propose that public support for local public transport be returned. Here in the Chamber is Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, I am very pleased that you are here, I had a question for you in the direction of the municipal election immediately after the state aid for local public transport. You said I was the one who was alarming you that you were threatening to release state aid because you were changing the rules on local business tax. He said we're gonna scare him, he said he's gonna stay on state support. You have taken away state aid, 497 million in the last full year for local public transport in Miskolc. Return this state aid because it needs it to function properly. You are pursuing a two-faced policy, here you are squeezed, and your local politicians in the municipality point to the city's leadership when you are causing this problem. So give me back this support. I propose 500 million for this purpose. I propose the development of Wheat Square and the development of Tisza Railway Station as an intermodal node. I am doing this because they have been talking about this for ten years, and it is really important goals, but we always hear that next year it will actually start, and there will really be action on these issues. The redefined urban development plans include several intermodal nodes. In order to launch this process, I propose HUF 1-1 billion for the development of wheat space and the intermodal node. Of course, the total volume requires greater resources from the seven-year budget and from the original, which, of course, did not involve the municipalities in its planning; this is also outrageous. I will also propose a road renewal programme, which has been rejected for years. I believe that the state of the roads speaks for itself in Miskolc and the routes affected by public transport. Please also support this amendment proposal. Air pollution is a matter to be solved in the region, the whole valley of Sajó. The University of Miskolc also has innovative development, which has been on the table for a long time, and there are plans and programs. Support this, put the source there. It cannot be that people die prematurely in Hungary because of air pollution and dust pollution, especially the valley of Sajó. The renovation of industrialised buildings stopped in 2010. Until then, one third of the apartments were renewed by the then socialist city leadership, and since then this process has not been able to continue in substance without resources. Therefore, the panel reconstruction must continue and support this proposal. I would like to mention two areas quickly at the end of my speech, which are also part of the Borsod 2nd constituency. In Sajóbábony, I would like to ask you for resources for infrastructure development, there is also an industrial park and there are major industrial traditions, and obviously this is what the infrastructure is burdened with. There is always a need for renovation, some HUF 500 million could be used to significantly improve the situation. I would also like to ask for 500 million HUF for tourist development in a fairy-tale area, the Pitypalatty Valley. Varbo, Parasnya, Radostyán, Sajólászlófalva's break-out point can be tourism in such a picturesque area after the decline in mining and virtually total cessation, so I think it is worth supporting this too, these money would be in the right place. To sum up, I ask for a level playing field for Miskolc, Borsod and the people in the region. Please support my suggestions. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Gyula Molnár applauds.]]
u2021-05-21-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond very briefly to three things that Mr László Varga mentioned. The first, as far as economic convergence is concerned, let me say that we all see the tasks ahead of us, and when we report on the results so far, I think that we are not doing a success propaganda, but we are telling the facts. In this spirit, when Mr President said that the situation is not so bright compared to the countries in the region, let me quote Eurostat data. Between the first quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2021, the EU average growth over the whole period was 10.3 percent, Hungary 30.3% and V3 32.1 percent. We cannot forget that Hungary was in a very serious economic situation after 2010, much more serious than the other V3, and Mr. None of the countries were in the same financial situation as Hungary, none of the countries were in the financing of IMF loans and European Commission loans, none of the countries had the same sovereign debt as Hungary, so if we look at catching up compared to 2014 after the stabilisation period, then Hungary's growth was greater than that of the three countries in Visegrád. That's the first thing I wanted to react to. Congressman said that we are spending less money on education. That's not factually true. It was probably the fact that the own income of the model-changing higher education institutions was no longer included in the 2022 Budget Act, according to the Parliament's previous decision. This is hundreds of billions of HUF items. So I would ask the Member to take this into account. The funding of higher education is also increasing, the support of higher education institutions is increasing in 2022 compared to 2021, and the funding of public education institutions is also increasing. And finally, the third: the municipal issue. We have talked about it a lot, but here again I am forced to add factual information to what Congressman said. On the one hand, budget laws, including next year's budget law, define financing for the mandatory task of municipalities. The financing of mandatory tasks will increase in 2022 compared to 2021 and, in 2021, the balance of State support and solidarity contribution related to mandatory tasks compared to 2020 has improved, for example, with regard to Miskolc. Please ask Mr Mayor about this, I calculate that the financing of mandatory tasks has improved by more than HUF 300 million in 2021 compared to 2020. Public transport is not a mandatory task except for Budapest. Mr President, you are right in that last year in the case of an epidemic caused by the coronal virus, we all, everyone, the state and the local authorities had to take their part out of funding for the control of the disease. You're right about the car tax being used to protect against the epidemic, but please, let's look at the proportions. It was HUF 34.4 billion, which last year had to be used to control the epidemic from the car tax, and the total expenditure was over HUF 1000 billion. As far as individual subsidies are concerned, I must repudiate Mr. Congressman. I've got a list of individual subsidies beyond regular subsidies. The list also includes the city of Miskolc as a unique support with support of over HUF 1 billion, but it has Eger on it, it has Salgótarján and a number of municipalities with opposition leadership. And if we want to take stock of what the epidemic meant for the municipalities, what that bleeding means in the numbers, let me say again that at the end of 2019 the total government debt and commercial bank funds were HUF 1080.5 billion, and by the end of 2020 it amounted to HUF 1048.1 billion. I accept that, and I also believe that yes, many municipalities have been challenged by this coronal virus crisis, like everyone, but that it would be bleeding out, in the light of these figures, in the light of government stocks above HUF 1000 billion in sovereign debt and commercial banking, I think that it can at least be considered a nuanced statement. [[11.30]] What is important to me, and it is in the interest of the local authorities, is that the economic catch-up that I mentioned in point 1 will be re-established from 2020 onwards. In 20, the decline in the Hungarian economy was lower than the EU average, . 21, we trust that it will be bigger, we calculate an increase of more than 4 per cent, and if the government proposal is accepted by the Parliament and our calculations are confirmed, the Hungarian economy may grow above 5 per cent next year, and this should result in an increase in business tax revenue for local governments. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-21-40	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's answers. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I was happy to listen to the debate here, and interesting suggestions, thoughts, constructive criticisms have been raised, and we are always happy about that. However, when you hear that something is not good and why it is not good: just and why it should not be so, you do not always understand this line of thought. That is why we are always happy with the professionally uplifting recommendations of debate, and we cannot accept these ideas on behalf of the Fidesz faction, which do not advance the Hungarian budget. Why do I say that? 2020-21 is not a simple year, because the virus, the epidemic, has caused many people to expect that the Hungarian economy will not be able to withstand the burden that it has had on it during these two years, and it is still on it to this day. However, thank God that the economic policy that the government is taking makes it possible for us to survive this period, living through 2022 to be the year of opening and building, and every number shows that we can achieve this. What do I mean by specific numbers? For us, there are some important things that need to be reflected in the budget: the question of pensioners, their livelihoods, education, health, the livelihood of families, safety and keeping young people in place, staying here, encouraging them, improving their livelihood. There is no item and there is always a number of stubborn facts that would not show that the funding is growing by 10-20 percent, the money that the Hungarian government would have set in its 2022 budget proposal is increasing by 10-20 percent. It is difficult to draw up a budget where a stock exchange is something... for example, here my fellow Member Varga mentioned the foreign exchange issue, it is not up to us, it is not entirely up to us, but is influenced by others. I remember. I recall the 10th of June 2002, when a large number of Hungarian companies knelt down because of the foreign exchange band expansion, specifically because of the dollar, very many Hungarian companies closed their activities, stopped their activities, because they could not manage and could not continue because of the foreign exchange issue. It is difficult to draw up a budget that is highly dependent on imports and exports, largely dependent on the form of European funding, for which we know that the accounts are in euro. I believe that the stability of the budget and the economic growth figures show that foreign exchange management is working well and stable for everyone at national level. Some thoughts about what this budget means for the Hungarian countryside. Resettlement of settlements, young people. Well, I would like to say that in many Hungarian settlements there has been an increase in population. These are small settlements where there have been plenty of empty houses. In a lot of places, these houses are renovated, and there's no house for sale anymore. The value of the houses is constantly increasing. The fact that young people get their own property works very well. As regards rentals and apartments: in recent years only in Hungarian villages, there is no settlement where there has been no renovation, construction and development of a tenant-house. Many incubator houses have been created in several settlements that ensure that young people who are the future of the village can stay in place. It's a very uplifting experience for me to go to a settlement and see a mother pushing a stroller. It's a good sight to see the stroller, because it's always what our ancestors taught us that the future is in the hands of our children. It is good to see that there are young people who take on these children, and this budget and previous budgets support an increase in the desire of young people to have children. The best songs in the last 25 years are coming up. We're looking at the best family-enhancing numbers in the last 25 years, and these are facts, these are the facts of Eurostat, which, I think, we can't object to, and we can't say it's not true. Every year, the support system for families increases by nearly 20 percent. The construction subsidies that exist, there are, whether it is the renovation of the house, the promotion of new construction, the provision of interest-supported loans, and they show that in the Hungarian budget, in the Hungarian economy, there are points of power that can ensure a reboot, and that some young people in the country are now able to provide this well for a start-up family. However, it is not enough to help young people settle in specific settlements. There is definitely a need for a lot of improvements that are related to this. I would like to highlight the situation on the roads. If we ask any Hungarian people today what is most important in terms of development in the country today, they will say the roads. There are still delays, but we have achieved a lot of things in recent years. In my area, this area of Sixty, the area of Heves, only this year more than 60 kilometers of roads will be renewed. In this is the source provided by the Hungarian government, there is the source provided to the Hungarian Közút by the Hungarian village, and there is a source available directly in the Hungarian budget. This will continue in the next period, and this will be included in the budget for 2022, as there will be money for either the Hungarian village program or road construction, and we can ensure that. The question of inland roads is very important, which can also be found as a source, since the budget lines of the Ministry of Interior have these sources, from which these roads can be built, these sections of the road. So we must say or say that, together with the institutional system, the standard of living is constantly rising, and in these settlements, the establishment of young people is constantly ensured. Protecting and helping pensioners. Many of us remember the time when we were surprised to read that pensions should be reduced and that we should withdraw money from pensioners. I do not want to raise the issue of 13th month's pension, but one thing is certain: the budget for 2022 includes both the additional resources for the 13th month's pension and the post-inflationary pension increase. In relation to the budget for 2021, the government stated that, in line with inflation developments, it would ensure the payment of pensions and represent a financially sound state of affairs. You can talk to people, retirees tell you how much they thank you, see these intentions, see this trend. It's very important that these people stick to the place, stick to the homeland, they don't want to move from there. Security, daily livelihoods, care, a system that helps them socially, must be ensured locally, and this budget supports this. Stability of municipalities. I remember the years when there were a lot of additional tasks between municipal tasks, which were not financed by a hundred percent, for example, 60% of wages. The additional funding of these was passed on in the municipalities, which was a more wealthy municipality, which was better, which was less, less. I would like to ask you how you know today about a local government that would have reached the brink of bankruptcy and the brink of insolvency, the resolution process. I can't. At any time there is a problem, there is a budget with a reserve of 233 billion in the 2022 budget as a surplus, which ensures that these funds can be drawn. [[11.40]] Smaller municipalities that do not have business tax revenues are in disadvantaged areas, so far they have all worked financially well and have been able to receive the additional individual grants and additional grants to maintain their operation. I remember once again, when several municipalities were in bankruptcy, and financially they became so impossible that they had to borrow and finance their normal operation with loans. The job creation that we are always talking about, I have positive experiences, especially in the hot zone. The development of several industrial park focal points was launched and implemented from private forces, as well as from the employment development and job retention programmes provided by the Hungarian government, resulting in hundreds of new jobs, which exist in several settlements, continuous development. In a small number of settlements, a 50-person, 20-person job sometimes means a lot, but it is very important that more jobs have also been created in the past period. If an entrepreneur anywhere says that he needs any tender money, this should be a small entrepreneurial, individual entrepreneurial level, whether it is a small or medium-sized enterprise, he can solve a 50% funding level in Hungary today. What I see is that the entrepreneurial sphere is active, preparing for the post-virus period, even though it knows that during this period Covid's virus caused less traffic, the business went less well; everyone is optimistic, and businesses are applying for it, they do this thing. I would like to highlight one more thing. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was a programme that supported job retention, especially for medium-sized and large companies. There were only 14 companies in my area that won, and they all kept their word and kept the jobs. What if the country hadn't been so economically stable; if we hadn't had any reserves or options; if we hadn't been able to put together budgets of 20 or 21, and there wouldn't have been these tender funds or grants? The unemployment rate above 10 percent, which, we know, the population would have felt better. I am very pleased that we see in the 2022 budget the development strategies and operational strategies that can ensure that the country can survive this period and restart our economic life; I hope that this will be positive. You know, half a glass of water, and it doesn't matter where you look at it. I am rooting for this, and I also ask our opposition fellow Members to vote with us on the 2022 budget, trusting that the development ideas that came from them as a positive proposal will and will be included in the budget. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-43	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, On the last day of the general debate on the budget, allow me to divide what I have to say into two parts: in the first, perhaps shorter part, I would like to respond here to some of the statements made today, which I think we should reflect on at some level; and secondly, I would like to express our position with the whole budget itself, a little summary of which Mr Secretary of State and the members of the government, the authors, have learned here in the last few days. I am not selling a bag cat, these opinions basically support the fact that this budget alone is unacceptable in this form. Let us therefore consider the reasons for this and why this condition exists. Let us start there, as I said today, with my fellow opposition Members, both on the right and on the left, against the pro-government people, but rather with regard to the housing crisis, there has been a heated debate here, and Mr Secretary of State has also tried to respond to this in a professional manner. But in addition to professionalism, I think it should be put there, and it cannot be denied that, while Mr Secretary of State's statements are true, the decisions and the steps that have been taken have helped people, but that in itself, as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpat, has said, there is still a housing crisis. The fact that you have helped the few, one thing, is that you expect to have 5-10 million forints per family to start, by the way, as a result of your work, Mr. Secretary of State presented this positive process, linked to the growth of net average earnings, how good it is then, while housing prices have increased to a higher extent. So it remains true that many do not have the opportunity to make a meaningful contribution to this story. One thing is quite certain: many people are left out of this opportunity, and this includes the fact that the Secretary of State also mentioned the reduction in the VAT rate. Remember your own reasoning. This was in particular in favour of the national capital class which, by the way, builds these apartments, because it did not make the housing cheaper in market prices, but became more expensive, but the companies who built them became more profitable and more interested, and the story goes accordingly. I could say that there's nothing wrong with that from your point of view, that's what they wanted, that's what happened, but that's good for a few, that's another story, and don't let it get to you that we don't like it. It is very lacking in this system that rent-apartment programs are, by the way, for those who do not have such opportunities, do not have a background, can get in, can take the opportunity to start their own lives, supported or without support. The point of the story is that they have been abandoned and are not offered any opportunities, even though in the last ten years there have been several calls for attention, and they would have been able to do so, but they have not launched such a public housing programme, the municipalities have not been specifically assisted, and now, with the last step, they are also making impossible for those who have been in your practice in the past few years, and I could say that they have built rent apartments in spite of their discriminating ways, and they are now being liquidated. I think that this has been seen in many cities, and they are now speaking out against the practice that they want to do in a sufficiently self-interest, and in this way they are obliged to sell apartments with local governments. The other part, which I would like to draw to the attention of the Secretary of State, is that what he said was a huge mistake, by the way, about how high the number of apartments transferred was during this period. Dear Secretary of State, There is not half of what happened during Gyurcsány's administration: then 42,000 apartments received a permit for use a year, now the largest number they have achieved in the last ten years, that happened here in the last years, there were 21,000 apartments on one occasion. Now, that's the achievement, and that's what's behind you, that's what it's done. And from this point of view, let us not deny that the housing program and support system launched during the first Fidesz government went up in the sky, otherwise the then government reduced it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's gone!]] But despite that, it is what it is... my dear fellow Member! Even if you want to talk about what I'm saying, look at the data, since you refer to it. [[11.50]] Look, not after, but after 2004, the Gyurcsány government, it was after 2004 that 42,000 apartments were transferred, however much you like it or not. In this respect, with regard to the budget as a whole, perhaps we should start with the set of values of the draft budget law, at the end of which it summarises, I think that a number of areas have been implemented with the functioning of the state and, at my reading, with the expanding attitude of the state. The draft budget law does not contain any data on the projected or expected evolution of tax centralisation in 2020-22. I miss that. It makes the assessment of the change in the expenditure structure of the general government this year extremely limited that the preliminary data for 2020 are not available and the appropriations for the year 21 are still in the pre-amendment stage and cannot be included in this way, and this is the sand castle. Data relating to the central subsystem of the draft budget law for 2022: the share or part allocated to public operations, in particular welfare functions, will be reduced in 2022 compared to the appropriations. I think they have an extraordinary responsibility in this and where it leads to a reduction of 2.9 percentage points and what they prefer to do instead, I think of this when we talk about value choice, because in the meantime it is increasing in terms of economic functions. In addition, government debt management is also increasing by 0.7 percentage points. In this way, it becomes clear, and even if we look at further details, it is what is growing significantly, putting health here correctly, and we also believe that it is important to increase, although not enough. However, it is unacceptable that the part of education does decrease by 1.8 percentage points, as does the share of social security welfare expenditure by more than 3 percent, Mr Secretary of State. In education, mainly, but not only is higher education's share of how much this is a consequence of the foundation system, I do not know yet, probably even less, it is still their own decision, but the share of entertainment and culture has been reduced, while sport is growing. So I have to say, these plans suggest that the high public deficit caused by expenditure surpluses is, above all, a consequence of the expansion of the state's economic engagement and, at the same time, a significant reduction in welfare and human-related expenditure. And then it is no wonder that my fellow Members mention the family allowance, and there are many other things that are left out in this way. So, in summary, I note that the very high deficit that is planned not only for 2021 but 2022 is one of the main reasons, because of the increase in defence, sport and interest expenditure, and we say that this should be significantly reduced. This shows that the government and the Fidesz state party are striving for investment, forced investment growth, to be transferred there. Well, who gives a shit about the golden egg? That's the real question. In summary, I can say this to the national capital class. Your political goal is to make them as strong as possible. What is the political purpose and purpose of this, let us not put it here for now, we will discuss it another time, not in the budget, but it seems to be the most important thing for you at the moment. Last year, the budget provided three times the EU average of investment aid. Despite these known facts, the 2022 bill declares the government's commitment to further accelerate investment. It doesn't matter that there's an outflow of labour, there's no labour force, it doesn't matter that it has a price drive, it doesn't matter that they're on a deadline, and they're doing it very expensively in the absence of capacity, they're pushing it, pushing it forward to get as much as possible for friends who, I might say, with the number of names listed on two hands, we know exactly provide this opportunity. 133 Members vote to give this opportunity to the national capital class, which is thus growing and muscular. Well, we congratulate everyone who supports this professionally, give them their name, and help them in this story instead of saying that I would help the Hungarian people, the people in this respect. I can safely raise your economics, Mr. Secretary of State, so that you can compare the previous period and the current one. Those large companies or investments, I would say, which receive support for job creation, HUF 4 million ten years ago, the current subsidies show an average of HUF 12 million. 12 million forints! So it's very important for you, and it's going to happen again in comparison to say that 5-10 percent of the investment at that time was below it. Now there is an investment to attract someone here, Mr. Foreign Minister, 50 percent of the investment is paid by the Hungarian Government, so that, by the way, the Hungarian government will be happy to tell you about the great results they have achieved at such a price. Can I just say, at what cost, my honourable fellow Member, honourable Members of the State? ! So what you're doing in this form is a budget of last year's investment aid, and you've put this forward, and that's what you've done. It can also be assumed that the aim is to tie in the resources available from the European Union as quickly as possible and before the elections. You have developed this practice to want it in this way, it was a politically declared goal earlier, Minister Lazarus said with great force that it would not be possible for anything else to remain. In addition, they seem to be in a lot of trouble with regard to EU funding, because it does not seem to be possible to use the resources to finance only pointless investments, and it cannot be used to build a Budapest-Belgrade railway line. In this case, yes, the financier said that we should stop for a moment and consider it, because the plan you have put forward for this is incompetent, useless, and in this way you say it like the aggressive pig: then I do not ask, thank you very much. So that's the attitude you're doing, and you're saying that you'll solve it on your own. Yeah, out of a huge budget deficit that someone's gonna work off somewhere. That is why I think, Mr Secretary of State, this budget cannot be accepted, it cannot be supported, it must be protested, rather than taken into account what the Alliance of opposition representatives has submitted, which investments must be stopped and how people should be helped. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-21-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2021-05-21-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, It is frightening that the chairman of the Budget Committee of the Hungarian Parliament, either because of bad intentions or because of professional inadequacy, brings together such data here, which is not due to the budget, within the framework of the plenary session, but doesn't it, László Varju know exactly what the party of the state is, which is why he used this phrase so often. [[Laszlo Varju: The Fidesz! It's equal to that!]] He's the one who knows it from the inside. Maybe it was this chilibérci math that Congressman here told us. [[12.00]] The situation with regard to housing support, in relation to housing subsidies, Member, is that it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who specifically destroyed a well-functioning housing support system, who abolished government interest-supported forint loans only to drive the Hungarian population into foreign exchange loans. He was the one who stopped the Socpol, he was the one who narrowed down every opportunity to get as few citizens as possible to use it anyway. This was also described in the left-wing papers, that Ferenc Gyurcsány had specifically abolished the well-functioning housing support system. This was in 2004, honourable Member. So the fact is that we have not been able to read the data in education either, Mr Varju, because the amount spent on primary and secondary education will increase by HUF 101 billion compared to this year, plus HUF 101 billion, which we want to spend on basic and secondary education. I understand that you don't want to have more resources in the budget for education, but I think it was a mistake to destroy the housing support system. Let us be glad that there is now a good family support system for families. What you've beaten up, we've brought it back. Unfortunately, that is the case, honourable Member, so I am asking you not to attack the extra resources spent on education, nor to attack the extra HUF 101 billion, nor to try to help as many Hungarians as possible to get home. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-21-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-47	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! The 2022 budget, as has already been said many times, is at the heart of the re-launch budget, focusing on job-creating investments, family support, tax reduction and, as a very important item, even the appreciation of older people. Within the framework of the job creation programmes, I would like to highlight the subject in which my fellow Member Varju has just made a statement about the support that various companies, companies, businesses, foreign investors and investments have received through the coordination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or with the support of its back-up institutions. I believe that this investment promotion, investment protection and economic protection programme, which, thanks in particular to the pandemic, has been important in the past two years to start, to help businesses that are in a more difficult situation, or to help them to gain even more market access with an increase in capacity, an expansion of production, or to be even better prepared to be more competitive when opening, re-launching, than, where appropriate, competitors in the region. So in many cases, these developments not only created jobs, but also opened up greater opportunities and greater prospects for those working there, and, if you look at it, in the 2022 budget, there is the amount of such support opportunities, which is still listed in the budget in the chapter section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its institutions, in some HUF 80 billion this year as well. And why is that important, for example, what the State Department did? In West Nógrád, I have seen that in our various industrial centres in the region, whether it be Balassagyarmati, whether it be the area of the meadow industry, the zone or the industrial zone in Bercel, which is now emerging, we find that there is an increasing interest in investments, investments and start-ups. There is also an important aspect here: it is possible to see that more and more measures are being taken by the budget, by the government, and, where appropriate, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to help companies arriving here. And to say a roughly accurate number from the last two years: thanks to these economic development and economic protection programmes, some 3,000 jobs in West Nógrád have been able to be stable, and 3,000 jobs have been saved in the industrial sector alone. I think that these opportunities, these careers, are also important because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a budget that specifically supports the economic and economic development of the foreign parts, whether it is a small enterprise, whether it is an economic body or a company or a business living in agriculture. It is very important, because there in West Nógrád, along Ipoly, we see that people living on both sides of Ipoly, who are farming, who are engaged in economic activity, are essentially interacting with each other, because on the one hand, the border has developed its own economic environment, whether it be trade or agricultural opportunities, and a process has started, for example, in Hungarian-Slovak relations along Ipoly, which I think is a very important opportunity for such border regions in the next period. It was also very important that in this development, in this opportunity, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior made a great deal of decisions during the epidemic situation that helped cross-border traffic, trade, and obstacles. I think it is very important that businesses that have now saved these jobs have developed, for the employees living there, for the professionals working there, to open up a new and better existential opportunity, and this reopening will help. I think that this could be a very important direction, for example, between the opportunities of the county of Nógrád, the very fast-tracking West-Nográd region. It is important to see that the programmes that will be included in next year's budget, whether it be the programme of the Hungarian village, whether it be the programmes of home creation, whether it be the village CSOK, are all decisions that, if we link them to economic opportunities in an area, with job creation, job opportunities, will give more and more young people a starting point to start a family in these settlements, basically establish a home, and either find their way home if they have worked elsewhere or stay at home and try to thrive in their homeland. It's a huge step. And what numbers were started, what rates were started? More and more, we see that the Budapest agglomeration or even those working in central economic zones or with its suppliers and companies are increasingly thinking about coming to the countryside. Just as my fellow Member Zsolt Szabó talks about Heves County, his constituency, there are similar processes in West Nógrád that more and more people are thinking about coming to our region, settling down there, enjoying a job opportunity or having a family. These are the opportunities that, partly thanks to the Ministry of Economy, and here I would also like to mention specifically the Ministry of Innovation, because they were the ones that helped those small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary during the economic development or economic protection programme with HUF 15 million or HUF 100 million, for whom it was really important for them to stay, stay on the market, keep jobs, and there are a lot of businesses in West Nógrád that can thank the Hungarian government for this and thank them for their help and support in order to preserve their jobs. So these opportunities, if this continues, we see in the next year's budget that these economic protection and economic support programmes will basically remain, and I think that this will, where appropriate, involve not only national, but also very important support and economic development opportunities in the regions, where appropriate in my district, in West Nógrád. I am confident that businesses will be able to count on subsidies from the direction of the government, from the direction of the various ministries, from both EU and national sources to further develop, further expand the possibilities of exports, whether regional, regional, commercial or sales, in which they will be able to act more bravely and more intensively with these grants in order to develop the region's economy and provide the people with the best possible livelihood. That is why I ask you to support budget 2022. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.10]]
u2021-05-21-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group.
u2021-05-21-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate, it was said that this budget is a budget for Hungary to become one of the most livable European countries. Well, I'd like to bring in the voice of the peripherals, the voice you don't want to hear on the pro-government side. I myself came from South Transdanubia, which is one of the poorest regions of the European Union, and if we look at those districts, those districts of South Somogy, the districts of Nagyatád, Csurgó and Barch, I must say that these are the poorest and the most peripheral ones, even in South Transdanubia. What future or present is revealed here in this region? I don't think it's gonna be of any interest to you if you meet the sound of reality. I got this message on my way here this morning, and I put my notes aside here, because I would like to share this with you: Good morning, Balázs. I don't want to bother you, but we're in a lot of trouble, no matter who I turn to, no one can help you, you're the last chance and the Jobbik. He knew that my partner was working, and he just got a salary of 90,000 forints, because he had to ask for an advance so we could eat. I've done my community service, but since I have a few months' debt, I get half. I turned to the Maltese Charity Service, but I didn't get any help. We're working on the garden, but there's nothing yet. I don't drink, I don't smoke, I just go to work, and now it's this long weekend, and there's so much food I can buy two breads. Just tell me who we can get help from. I talked to the mayor, there's not much temporary support here, because they're giving us money at the end of the year, and if they do, maybe next week, because the village manager's on vacation. We're actually gonna starve in these few days. I'm ashamed and very bad, but there's nothing I can do. I've thought about writing to you a thousand times, but there's no other way. There were a couple of potatoes, and I made them for my partner because he went to work. And it's a shame to say it, but I'm hungry. Who can help me in this situation? My fellow members of the Government, the fact is that this is not a unique problem, not a unique tragedy there, on the peripheries whose voices we are trying to bring here to you, and what they tend to sweep off with the triumphal reports that do not work very well there. The constituency I came from has 77 settlements. Of the 77 settlements, the average monthly salary of 100,000 HUF is not reached in 15 settlements. We're talking 100,000 forints. It doesn't even make it in 15 settlements. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) You'll tell them to wait a little longer, and then we'll outrun the declining West on our soaring steed. That's what Khrushchev used to say, but he was talking about a socialist steed. It's just that now is the time to do something, and in the last 11 years, something should have been done about these disruptive peripherals that have been wiped off the map. They'll tell you to wait a little longer, then it'll be good, because this budget is good, you say. But they don't know what to say, it's been five months since this year, and they can't say anything to the employees of key state firms, the early risers and hard-working small people who work in railway or road transport, who operate the water utilities, who work as postmen. But they don't ask for much, they ask for at least real wages to keep, to preserve what they've received so far. And there's no answer. How can we accept the horse-zungs, the promises that this budget has given us? By the way, we know how the usual answer will come from the pro-government side: well, how would you take it? What would you regroup? Your budget changers don't have the other leg. Of course I do. We have nothing against sports, but spending 340 billion forints on something so that most of it covers your boss's hobby, and we have to say, ultimately, it is the Hungarian taxpayers and citizens who pay the monthly salary of the Albanian foreign legionist playing football in the Felcsút NB III reserve team. Well, these should be redistributed somehow and translated to the Hungarian people's side. We always bring up the fact that there will be an unspeakable amount of money for the Budapest-Belgrád railway as well. In connection with this project, we miss three things: transparency, informed impact assessments, but if anyone has seen this or the third thing, the Chinese party's guarantee, please come forward, because we have not met them. And this project, this madness that consumes a thousand billion forints, will come about most of the time from Chinese credit, which Hungarians will have to pay. One thing's for sure, a 300 billion-dollar item of yours, let's just say that your stooge's company has already laid hands on it. Well, maybe it'll be a little overpriced, all right, the more in the pocket, the more you'll have to fill the safety deposit box with the 500-pound crane in the new palace. Where is the Christian Social View at a time like this? Where is it that you should accept XIII? In Pope Leo's Rerum novarum, he put before us a sentence, as a sanity, that it is ugly and inhumane to use our fellow man as a means of profit. What we see is that nowhere in this budget is flawed. Let's see what he has in store for the countryside. There was a talk about the program of the Hungarian village. It's a good initiative if it doesn't build for your buddies, if it's the case, then a hunting castle, and a boarding house like that. We therefore want it to be a good initiative, because it is in good hands, and it is indeed in the interests of the people in the countryside, that these funds, which have been committed to hoarding, should be raised. We say that this would also have the other foot, that it could be taken away from there, and that it could be dragged to the countryside, because here in Jobbik's faction, we confess that this country, this nation, was kept by the Hungarian village and the Hungarian countryside for a thousand years. And if we imagine the nation as an oak, then the root of it is the country; it clings to the countryside. But the thing is, it's getting worse. Only that constituency has lost 10 percent of its population in the last ten years, in two thirds of your time, where I came from. It's a terrible exodus, because there's no way people can find a normal living there. Those foreign and, indeed, domestic agroligarchs, the Zrt.-Dugs, who are stuffed with billions of people, and show their estate centers like modern islands, strangle the Hungarian countryside. They don't have a sense of social responsibility, they turn the land into a desert with their farming, and they turn the local society into a social waste heap, and then we meet there, rural representatives, and we face the tragic life stories that I've been so kind and read to you before. In many cases, instead of Garden-Hungary, we see that a servant-Hungary is being built in the countryside, because of depopulation and small village syndrome, it is necessary to say that we are often at the end of 24 hours. These settlements should also be saved by infrastructure. I would like to quote from Parliament's intel: last year, about 350 kilometers of the 23 thousand kilometers of back roads were renovated. It should have been renovated four or five times. The 7 thousand kilometers of the main road network were also renovated, which should have been solved several times, because the 50 kilometers we see, what we experience, is not enough. [[12.20]] Those little villages I tried to bring in here and tell you their complaints feel buried alive in the countryside. Ladies and gentlemen, Time is running out, and I hope there was something digestible there in the pro-government benches, too, from what I told you. The rest will be presented to you next week, if not another time, after the agenda, because there is something to talk about in relation to this budget, let it be education, and let it be a matter of many areas that are crucial for the survival of Hungarian society and the Hungarian future from a national strategy point of view. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-21-50	Thank you. Our next speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Ander's speech would have been more credible if he had said the countless things that have happened in South Somogy in recent years, which he has repeatedly denied, denied and ignored here in Parliament; how much investment has been made in the South Somogy region thanks to the work of Congressman Szászfalvi, how much more jobs have been created in the South Somogy region in recent years, how much improvements have been made in Nagyatád, Barcson or Csurgón, but throughout Somogy County and the entire South Transdanubian region. And do not deny the fact, honourable Member, that the South-Transdanubian region has also advanced in the ranking of European Union regions, so it has preceded other regions in the last ten to eleven years. Our current debate is also about how we can improve these regions, as all seven Hungarian regions have made progress in the EU rankings over the last eleven years, some have made progress much faster, this is true of the Western-Transdanubian or Central-Transdanubian regions, and some have made less progress, but yes. This is also the case with the South-Transdanubian region, but this is also the case with the region of Nógrád, as my fellow Member Balla spoke about, as is the case with Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and with countless regions of the country that you have forgotten before 2010, which you did not pay any attention to at all, which you left on the floor, and did not improve, they did not offer the people there perspective or job opportunities, but only tried to keep these people under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the Left. And since then, they have a vision, a strong vision of the community, a vision of the future of the country, because these people have jobs, and because they have a realistic opportunity to move from one to two, and then they have a strong vision of the future of the country. This speech would be much more credible, Mr honourable Member, if you did not constantly attack the Hungarian village programme, if you did not constantly attack the investments and developments that serve exactly the rural settlements in the poorest region. This speech would be much more credible for you and your fellow political groups, if they had once supported decisions that we have brought to you before the Parliament in order to save, raise and develop the Hungarian countryside. I would like to commemorate today's day of defence in the speech, as we thank our hero soldiers, who, in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, have fulfilled the extra tasks that the government has imposed on them and the army's leadership. We've all been able to meet soldiers who didn't do their usual work in this epidemic period, either at the hospitals or anywhere else. We all know what work our soldiers are doing to protect the southern border, and we all know that internationally listed, recognised Hungarian military professionals and soldiers are involved in international missions, where they are always spoken of by our international allies in the voice of highest respect and praise. Today is the day of Hungarian defence, and it is therefore a pleasure that in this budget, too, we will increase defence spending by 23 percent next year compared to this year. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that since 2010 we have quadrupled the funds for the defence, because, as indicated by the names of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ágnes Vadai, the efforts to destroy the defence have ended in 2010, since then our aim has been to ensure the safety of Hungary, to be able to play the 21st. Let us create an army to meet the challenges of the century and not to be ashamed of our NATO allies, and continue to develop. That is why we are committed to increasing our resources year after year; and it is a special pleasure to thank them for their position on the day of defence, and to end the general debate on the budget by increasing spending on defence by 23 percent in the next year. Of course, we can see that you are also attacking these expenses, these expenses would also be taken away, and these expenses will also be considered unnecessary, as one of your presidential candidates, Klára Dobrev here said yesterday, that this budget should be thrown out in the trash, so we should throw the defence improvements in the trash, as well as the appreciation of the soldiers. If you look at the budget chapter on the amount of labour costs for law enforcement and defence workers, you can see that since 2010, there has been a double amount of money available to improve the wages of law enforcement and defence workers. I think that this is a joyful development, this doubled amount shows that we trust our uniforms, we appreciate them, and I think it is safe to say that this is not the last step in increasing the amount of wages. I would also like to say very briefly about social expenditure, as it is also a pleasure that the amount to be spent on the employment of our fellow countrymen with disabilities will increase by HUF 4.5 billion in the following year. It is very important that, while the Socialists have kept people with disabilities on welfare, and they have barely reached a few percent of their employment, this has increased by more than three times since then. We still have reserves, but what we see is that we give decent work, and if we acknowledge that our fellow countrymen with changed working skills are also doing value-making work in Hungarian society, and we appreciate the work that they are doing, for example, that the largest such employer is a public company, and what prestigious large companies are being supplied by the Handicraft company, how they are helping world-famous companies in various parts of their work, in which all of our working fellows are involved, we can say that they deserve all respect, and I am glad that the government wants to expand their resources for their employment, because there are still people who can be involved and make sense of the work that we all want to feel respect, respect and the potential to create value. It is also important that the left and here we have heard countless contributions from left parties, Jobbik, DK, MSZP in the last few days and hours always try to be a kind of leader of social sensitivity [[Ander Balázs: That's right!]] to which there is no better rebuttal than the 2022 budget before us. The last left-wing budget spent HUF 325 billion on social spending in 2010, while the 202 budget, which we have just discussed, already spends more than HUF 840 billion on social spending. This is 513 billion forints higher, more than two and a half times the amount in 2010. Then calling themselves socially sensitive or speaking to you in order to increase social spending is obviously false. We can see that the monthly minimum amount of orphan care will increase more than double from 1 January 2022 to help the families where one of the parents died again. The increase will also apply to already paid and newly established orphan care. It is important here, although we discussed in tax laws that there will also be tax-free donations to the foundation created by the President of the Republic and his dear wife, which will serve to provide long-term, mentoring assistance to orphan or semi- orphan children whose parents died as a result of the Covid epidemic. Thus, it is also a joyful development that the state here does not think that taxes should be collected on donations. I urge everyone to assist the President of the Republic in his work and initiative in this regard as far as possible. We have heard from honourable left-wing colleagues in the last few hours and days how bad this budget is. You said a number of left-wing speakers that the budget reflects a kind of value choice, and you disagree with this value choice. They said that as if it were a novelty, that your choice of value is very, very far from ours. You say no to the largest family support amount of all time; you say that this choice of values is wrong, that we are trying to support families who have children, that we are in favour of having children, and that in Hungary there is no automatically poverty, as in your time. [[12.30]] You say that our value choice is wrong when we say that we need to increase the resources that can be used for Hungary's security. You say that our value choice is wrong when we want to help Hungarian businesses when we want to help restart the economy. You say that our value choice is wrong when we want to rebuild the 13th month pension when we want to give young people a personal income tax exemption. You all say that this choice of value is wrong. However, honourable Members, the very dangerous choice of value is that you would take it away from the Hungarian families again, that you would raise taxes again for Hungarian businesses, and that the choice of value is extremely dangerous, that you think that the country-building work that we have been doing for 11 years, and the results of which are clearly visible, it seems that our economic policy, our strict fiscal policy, our policy focusing on investment, jobs and our policies for families is good, that this policy must be destroyed, and you believe that this choice of values is not right. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you have learned nothing from the pre-2010 period, you have worked against the Hungarian families, and your speeches and your votes clearly show that I would like to do so now. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-21-52	Thank you to Lőrinc Nacsa, who is a representative of the KDNP that remained with the left-wing European People's Party and continues to be in favour of gender and other things. Thank you very much. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: The impartial meeting guide!]] The word belongs to Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-53	Mr. President...
u2021-05-21-54	[[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] You don't...!
u2021-05-21-55	.......................................................................................................................................... Mr. Secretary of State! Thank you so much for the opportunity. I would also like to begin by saying that it is a truly excellent and very nice moment to speak after Congressman Nacsa, opening many doors, which I am now trying to do in some form not to get drunk, but at least to try to shade where it leads. There's XX. a great Hungarian magician of the century, who always told me to keep an eye on him. CHAPTER XXI The new great Hungarian magician of the century who used to sit here on Mondays in Parliament, but he told them not to listen to what I said, but to watch what we actually do. Nevertheless, I would like to say what you said, and the starting point in our approach is exactly the same, that yes, the budget is the moment, the moment in a given year, when it can be examined that everything you promise, everything you think of the world, what is your financial impression. We know very well that politics in this regard is a virtual science. As long as they believe you or anyone are planning to take the world in this direction, you stand well, and when we actually change it into small change, they call it a budget, then it is really up to you to do what you have done for the benefit of the majority or a small minority. I'd like to give you one more introductory thought, but maybe I'd like to start a little further. In the 1970s, the Chinese Communist Party is now very fond of this direction, the second man in Paris, by the way, called Chou Enlai; it may be necessary later in certain negotiations. When he was asked what his opinion was about the great French Revolution, Chou En-laj, with Chinese wisdom, said that we were still too close to expressing an objective opinion on this event. So what I'm trying to say is, don't fall for it if you say tomorrow that everything's okay. What is happening in Hungary today will not be decided and judged next week, nor in some respects the period before the change of regime, nor in some respects the performance of the first few governments. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is that someday, when our children look back, or we ourselves, when we are older, we will say that we have laid the foundations for a modern Hungary, or that we have just survived a period. That's the real question, ask yourself that every moment. Compared to what you are saying, as Congressman Nacsa has been trying to say, indeed, there is a commendable increase in Hungary, and for some time there has been a commendably not too high inflation, the real question, I think, is that we believe that in the course of the apparent growth, the success of growth, you have built a stable and predictable pension system. While this kind of success has been recorded, you are a functional XXI. It has built a modern education system of the century. When it was growth, you built a truly modern public health system accessible to all at this time. If you're saying yes to all of this, then I think we're not talking about the exact same thing. We believe that during this period you have made prestigious investments, carried out an elite exchange... [[To the President in consultation:]] Mr. President's mic's on, I think. Right? 'Cause I can hear it in my ear.
u2021-05-21-56	Excuse me, Congressman. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-57	It's okay, it's okay. So I would like to say to you that the question is that you have taken advantage of this opportunity that this 2010-2021 period has offered, or not. Our answer is no. You say yes. I think there will be a certain measure of this, and I think that there will be an objective moment when historians will judge it. We do believe, and this is indeed a philosophical difference between you and us, that economic growth can be divided in such a way that solidarity is taken into account as a basic value. So, when the competitiveness of a country is increasing, we can also pay attention to the extra opportunities for families that break down, have difficulty living, have more children and are educational, and obviously I don't want to make the cheap joke that when we talk about family support, it's not about the small family circle. So we do believe that there can be a redistributive opportunity. Whatever you say, once again, it is a matter of analysis, the essence of their tax system, the majority of their support system, is to give additional opportunities where there are already opportunities, to provide additional resources where there are certain kinds of access anyway. In fact, we can also say that you have released some social groups, or at least you are trying to keep me at a level close to the minimum of living. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to give my opinion on the proposal in this way, when we are nearing the end of the debate; I think we may be one more speaker, but perhaps not anymore. In fact, this budget shows very clearly and clearly how you think about the state. We don't agree on that either. We do not agree that it is the efficient state that centralizes all things. We do believe in the principle that the closer you are to solving the problem, the more you experience and experience the problems that strain people, the more you can make a much more effective, faster and cheaper decision. That is not the case for you. You obviously believe that you know everything better than anyone, that with obvious talent you are trying to live in every area, I think that is wrong. I'll just keep it quiet, I don't want to step out of character, I don't want to be a political analyst, that it's gonna be your loss, among other things. They're not all-powerful, they can't solve all the problems. When a system gets to blame the number one leader for not getting a red coat in the store, they'll see that they've built the wrong system. Responsibility and tasks must be shared. In this budget, as has always been the case in recent years, you have strengthened and supported the need to move the state towards centralisation as much as possible. I think the same thing, but I have practically mentioned this in the previous chapter, about income concentration. As I said, they are trying to take more and more money from where they can still be taken, and they are clearly trying to install it where there are already significant assets. Obviously, you can say that this is a kind of Hungarian small business support programme, but if you don't mind, in some cases we see that this is far beyond that. I would like to tell you the very simple and perhaps silly joke that has been used in Western European countries for decades, that Christian Democratic parties have generally failed in women's affairs and left-wing parties in others. Now it seems that slowly this kind of insatiableness and a great deal of time will lead to the fact that more and more embarrassing matters for the majority of people will be put on the table and made public. [[12.40]] And we do not believe, or at least we do not accept, that you have created a fairer position in public cargo; because in places like those with a single-key tax we have said a hundred times, we will not be able to resolve this debate, and you will be the ones who will be alarmed in the coming months by the opposition being next to the multi-key VAT. Yes, because we say that it creates significantly more opportunities for them, because even more key is to have a zero-percent tax, as the party leader said in his speech about the minimum wage tax exemption. And yes, I am telling you that keeping consumption-bound taxes at a high level is the most damaging to those who are in the lower part of society, and that a significant proportion of their income is actually used for their own consumption with a 27% VAT. For them, 5 percent of businesses in different places do not offer any additional opportunities and do not offer any kind of relief. Let's talk employment. The need for full employment as an objective is correct. Job creation as an objective is correct. I would like to note here in parentheses that, in the last year, I will tell you frankly, I would not have spent billions creating new jobs, but rather placed a significant part of the billions in job protection. It is not this six-month period, it is a year that it will be another hundred thousand, fifty thousand jobs in Hungary, I do not know how many job creation grants have been paid. But to protect jobs is to read that a host entrepreneur who owns two shops, one in Berlin and the other in Budapest, from his Berlin business, did not have to send anyone, without having to take any measures. Practically from the day after the announcement of the emergency, the employees will receive their full salary and the rent will be released. We have the extremely humiliating 70-80 thousand forints, which the entrepreneurs will receive months later, and if someone is not strong enough, it is obviously difficult to finance this transition period, but it was just a parentheses note. I would like to say that we continue to believe that full employment is the right thing to do, but do you not want to think that with the public work programme, this kind of full employment needs to be fully met? Well, I'd like to make a brief comment on my favorite topic, and it's been on the table a lot of times this past week, this week, this is the municipal system. Here I have expressed my views on the state. I still don't understand what this kind of instinctive fear is about local politics, local political public life. There are several ways to reduce autonomy if we accept that this is, in some respects, a reduction in autonomy, what is happening here. One of the options is to say that it is constantly removing powers, creating laws that are increasingly removing powers from local governments. Another option is to draw funds, and the municipalities themselves make the decisions on the basis of which they limit their room for manoeuvre in a certain way. Most of these young congressmen are sitting in the room right now. Let me tell you, if someone used to be political, has memories, in 1989-90, around the regime change, all political parties, all campaigned to keep the locally generated incomes in place. Maybe it's a sentence that sounds like a Fidesz communication team could have guessed. And indeed, when the Antall government came to power, this kind of thinking started, but fiscal terrorists came to the Ministry of Finance and said that it couldn't, and 50 percent remained in place. So 50 percent of the paid-up sja remained in place. It's the first period of the Horn government, and now, obviously, scream! They took it down to 20-25 percent, and then at the time of the Bokros package, it went down to 8 percent. That's when these compensation mechanisms came in, which, by the way, you're saying is a success, so how to take it away from the rich and give it to the poor, I'm talking about the municipalities now, not the people. I'm basically telling you that for a long time this was a locally staying part of between 8 and 10 percent, and that there were various sources of distribution and other ways, apart from their own faults, of being in difficulty, so they tried to pay back the money in some form to the municipalities in a targeted way. You guys came up, I think you've invented the biggest illusion in the world, but it's brilliant: this is operational type of funding, task funding. No one has calculated the amount of money to be paid for, say, in Karancslapújtő, Alsómocsolád and downtown Budapest. But let's not do that. It's brilliant. The end of this is that today it is not possible to know exactly in a local government that, by the way, when I run three schools, five kindergartens, a nursery, what is its type of publishing. 'Cause I'm just telling you, for example, in wages, there's a pretty amazing difference between a rural settlement and a big city. I don't want to go into this for long, I want to say that you have perfected the autonomy restriction. You have also removed powers over the last ten years and have also removed resources from the municipalities. Today I am brave to say to you that the municipal government, any mayor who sits in that place, is nowhere near what I might have done between 2002 and 2010, as in the case of the XI. District, mayor of Újbuda. They're saying there's nothing wrong now. I'm just telling you, the numbers in the municipal area have barely changed. They will say that growth; indeed there are certain growth trends; I would just like to point out that the rate of growth is so low that, if we look at inflation and we look at any price index changes, practically these increases, we can safely say that they are putting local governments in a much harder and worse position than stagnation. We know that this is when subjective decisions come, December, Christmas, and some county-righted cities and some settlements get their money. The settlements below 25,000 are being paid, and the people over 25,000 are being negotiated individually, and the result is that there is a well-founded demand in some settlements, and the other settlement is not well founded. And if we look at the political color of well-founded and unfounded demands, then we see that the foundation is more prepared pro-government mayors, and there are obviously many unprepared mayors who are today opponents. It's no good, ladies and gentlemen. It is not good for you to understand, because it is not about us deciding on the mayor's salary and the salary of Members, but indeed, as my fellow Member Varga said before me, we are actually deciding on road renovation, park maintenance and the operation of the institutions, and it is only a minimal part of how, how a mayor or the majority, if any, will live better if they receive more money from the state. I do not want to go into the number war now, but, in fact, compared to what the local authorities are capable of, I will continue to say that, although Mr Secretary of State has just replied to Congress Varga here, I still think that much more has been shown to the more efficient municipalities than would otherwise have been justified during the disease management, and that they could have carried on many tasks. I am curious, by the way, and then I will ask you this officially, what is the exact internal content of the thousand-billion-dollar government bond that is managed by the municipalities. I've prepared an amendment package myself, and I'll tell you why. The reason is that in my constituency, Budafok-Tétény, the XXII. Districts and Újbuda, Section XI. In part of the district, any attempt that the local government is trying to assess the needs, tries to point them towards the capital, and then obviously towards the government, because this is the case now, the capital is also emptied from a development point of view, then we can see that this is not possible. I had the pleasure of listening to our fellow Member of Harghita's keynote speech, where he was very proud and happy to announce how much he had done for Mohács and his region. I'm not kneeling right now, because it would look funny to start talking under the bench, but I beg you for your understanding and for your kindness that we do, although we may not look so bad, but we also have problems. For example, in NewBuda, the former mayor launched a children's health center. He also received state aid for the children's health centre. This building is ready, we're more or less close to getting started. You have to run it, the profession wants one day of surgery. The sum is between HUF 300 and HUF 400 million. [[12.50]] The municipality can't manage this now, under the current circumstances. I made a suggestion to try to compensate for this in some form. I think the same about some road renovations, some types of operations, such as bicycle roads, they cannot now finance with this budget support. Plus an interesting faction: I think my fellow group leader Simicskó, who is also a representative of the region, is going to introduce the school in Richrét in the campaign. In the vicinity of the school, the municipality has undertaken certain types of landscaping work. It's not a big sum, it's between HUF 10-20 million, but right now, this job can't be done by the municipality, so we put this in the package of amendments that we would like you to support in some form. As far as Budafok-Tétény is concerned, I must tell you honestly, the biggest problem in this area is transport, how, how, and how, anyone who has nothing to do with it should go through it as quickly as possible, or bypass it as possible. This is obviously where the intelligent and appropriate renovation of the M0 creates the opportunity to avoid this area, but in all other respects it needs to be worked on, and this is what development plans and concepts are all about, how to pass through as quickly as possible. From this point of view, I tabled an amendment to both the Balatoni road and the Lányka street overpass, which we hope will mean that something will move in this area within a reasonable time. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry if I've been a little distracted by my sentences, but I've been thinking, given the fact that the Dialogue has given me a considerable amount of time, I could do that to speak to you a little more high and talk to you. Let me end by saying one of my biggest dilemmas and problems. So, I've been a congressman a long time, I've been through a lot of budget debates, I've seen a lot of budgets. And what I would like to say to you is that this is my very subjective opinion that the contents of certain lines and numbers are becoming increasingly vague. More and more, it seems that they are pushing the budget towards general spending. I understand that in some ways, because one: it may not yet be exactly figured out which project will be supported by many. I made a budget myself, that's what happens. I can imagine that you think that every single Member and the public does not necessarily have to tear apart what exactly is in a thousand-billion-dollar economic defence fund, a development fund. But understand that what you are doing today, as you are doing, means that we can have a debate in plenary where we often prick the air. Of course, you will be delighted to hear this: Ah, it is not that, and then you will bring it to Parliament and I will turn to the MPs here, and you will have everything voted for. So there is no situation today where you say at any time that this is not what you meant when you voted on the content of this budget line. You didn't mean to give me this money before! And, you know, the thing is, power makes people drunk. If power is used to dealing with the majority of Parliament so easily, it will. And what it means to live with power and what it means to abuse is a very, very thin path. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-21-58	Thank you, Congressman. My fellow Member, Nacsa, I would like to point out that if you once again criticize the sitting loudly, I will exclude you from the sitting and I would like to tell you that I would impose the general sentence of President Fat. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-59	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, With regard to the draft budget law 2022, we have heard many times in recent days that this budget is the budget for the economic relaunch of the country. The epidemic has put the country to great challenges, but the challenges give us a chance to successfully restart the country; at the same time, it is important that we restart life. In this way we will launch the economic re-launch action plan, the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary. The action plan will not only create jobs, but will help Hungary to rise again. Families and children are the future of a nation, so we will continue to support families with children and children. Since 2010, support for families has increased by two and a half times. This is one of the highest rates in Europe, with almost 5 percent of GDP. Next year nearly HUF 2780 billion is available to support Hungarian families. Another important element or step of economic re-launch is the reduction in labour taxation. We introduce sja-free for young people under the age of 25. This leaves more than HUF 250 billion more than families and entrepreneurs, helping the economy recover. In the future, I would like to talk primarily about tasks, objectives and budget figures in the social field. In 2022, the main objectives include strengthening social, child welfare and child protection providers, further developing the labour market situation of disabled people with disabilities, ensuring equal opportunities and improving their quality of life through employment, replacing social institutional facilities providing care and care for persons with disabilities, and implementing the national disability programme on the basis of the action plan; further strengthening and supporting family-centred child protection, support for interest protection and charitable organisations, long-term, predictable functioning of social, child welfare and child protection services, and possibly more, but these are perhaps the most important items. A total of HUF 1152.7 billion is available for social, child welfare and child protection expenditure in 2022. This includes cash benefits, resources available in the municipal system for this purpose, children's meals and the operating costs of our state-owned institutions. In particular, I would like to mention some of the more prominent points. For social meals, there are more resources than ever, 87.2 billion forints, which is 56.2 billion forints more than 2010. The employment rate for workers with disabilities and the support of accredited employers is HUF 50.2 billion, which is nearly 4.5 billion more than the 2021 budget. This will contribute to the employment of more than 32,000 people. The employment rate for people with disabilities was 18% in 2010, and at present almost 44 percent. The number of enterprises benefiting from the social contribution tax, as well as the number of persons employed with disabilities and the amount of the benefit granted increases year by year. In July 2012, 3217 employers validated the discount for 5574 persons with disabilities and 7880 employers for 43 275 employees in March 2021. [[13.00]] For example, care premiums and children's home care premiums increase by nearly four and a half times compared to 2010, i.e. from HUF 15 billion to HUF 67 billion. The support of non-state social human supporters will increase by more than HUF 30.6 billion. And if you look at the support for social and welfare institutional services, you can see that in 2010 the support was HUF 325.2 billion and in 2021 HUF 780.6 billion. In the 2022 budget, this item is now HUF 8383.3 billion, so the rate of growth is 158 percent compared to 2010. I would also like to mention the main points and targets in the area of disability. One of the biggest steps is growth in the field of elementary rehabilitation for visually impaired people. From 1 January 2021, the State will finance a total of 60,000 hours per year for visually impaired persons and a maximum of 300 hours per person of elementary rehabilitation services. The service may be used free of charge by eligible visually impaired persons. In recent years, the availability of HUF 600 million from 2021 compared to HUF 124 million a year for this task has resulted in a significant increase in the number of people who have access to the service. Deaf blinds and associated disabled persons may have additional hours in addition to 300 hours, which means an additional 100 hours. It is also worth mentioning the amendment of the Hungarian sign language law, which would otherwise be adopted at the beginning of June. The Hungarian Sign Language Act also introduces the additional watch frame above the base for children with preschool and primary school hearing impairment, which can be used for the interpretation service for educational purposes. This will also be covered by the 2022 budget. On average, the budget support of disability organisations increased by 10 percent per year, from HUF 521 million 700 thousand in 2010 to HUF 1 billion 317 million 600 thousand in 2021, i.e. 1 billion 317 million 600 thousand forints. In this connection, I would like to suggest that, as in recent years, we are raising the support of interest protection organisations by 10 percent. I would also like to point out to my fellow Members and to the Government that it would be justified to increase the amount of disability support by at least 20%, taking into account the proposal of interest protection organisations and the increase in compensation expenditure for persons with disabilities. Finally, in the context of the budget for sports for disabled people, I would like to note that in the last two years, when the Olympics and the Paralympic Games were postponed because of Covid, so the process of preparation has changed, the qualifying competitions have also slipped, however, we have provided a much higher amount for this purpose in the last year and this year. However, the draft budget for 2022 would return to the baseline for 2019. I would therefore propose a 10 percent increase in support of disabled sports. Last but not least, I would like to remind my fellow Members that in 2014 a huge development was launched, which has brought about a huge change in the lives of people with disabilities, namely that we have launched projects with a value of HUF 4 billion for infocommunications accessibility. Out of these 4 billion forints, there have been improvements, services that have clearly increased the quality of living for people with disabilities. We started with the VONKT-video-based sign language interpreter service implemented by the National Federation of Deafs and Hearers. It continued with the project called.Télszem, which was implemented by the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, helping to improve the lives of blind and visually impaired persons. It continued with the so-called DATA project, which aims to help autistic individuals live independently, and I note only in parentheses that there will be a closing conference this afternoon to present the final form and operation of the DATA project. And in the case of persons with intellectual disabilities, so to speak, an independent living, so that is the name of the application, which helps them to live their own lives. In the case of disabled persons, a communication accessibility service, called.. Without limitations, was introduced. Based on the experience of recent years and the experience of developments, Mr Attila Fülöp, State Secretary for Social Affairs, announced today that, in view of the results of recent years, and given the importance of maintaining these results and further development, the government decided to continue to ensure the maintenance and further operation of these projects, these developments, services, this year by HUF 301 million and by HUF 381 million per year from 2022. It also shows that people with disabilities or disabilities, however difficult it is to manage, develop, manage, but listening to them, can count on us and try to help them in any way. The same can be said of the other areas that my fellow Members have already spoken about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-60	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the debate on the budget, I may be the last to speak from my group, and therefore I do not want to repeat the general things again, because the debate gave all Members the opportunity to express their views on this and to make arguments and suggestions. The Finance Act will now tell us what resources will come from and what resources will not be available in the coming period. Jobbik felt that, in about 705 cases, it would put resources elsewhere, since my fellow Members tabled 705 amendments. It shows that our group took the budget debate very seriously, and we took it seriously that we wanted to ensure prosperity for all Hungarians. In my constituency, 23 settlements are affected by this constituency, and I have made a special request to all mayors, in which I have offered my assistance, and I have asked them to use budgetary amendments to indicate the shortcomings that arise in their settlements, in which they ask for Parliament's and Members' assistance. I must tell you that unfortunately few have dared to respond to this request, since we know that the elected Member of Parliament in the region, Mr István Happy, is still keeping the mayors on a short leash, and if they happen to sit down with an opposition representative or negotiate, they will be asked to do so at a meeting. [[13.10]] I say that I thank all those who have helped me, and all those who have sent such proposals, so that they will even take the confrontation with the Member, and the others I can only encourage that this period will be over soon, they will only have to endure until then. There was also a mayor, honourable fellow Members, who replied to my letter that he had already handed over his amendments to Mr István Happy and asked me to support these proposals. I have watched in ParLex's system how many amendments Mr.István Happy has tabled, and in three years he has succeeded in one piece, not now. Unfortunately, I could not support it, although all I wanted was to see what shortcomings it called attention to and to support these proposals. However, as I did last year, I have also done this, and I have asked Mr István Happily to be a signatory in the ParLex system, who did not wish to support the amendments that I have tabled. Many have been placed on the table in general and also in the constituency. In general, we have tabled a number of amendments with my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs, including concerning the settlement of teachers' wages or, in fact, the increase in the capacity of the Erzsébet camps. We know that there are a lot of opportunities in the budget that we consider pointless investments, so let's say that the capacity of the Erzsébet camps could be doubled from a kilometer of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. We think it might make more sense. However, in my speech, I said, first of all, that I do not want to talk about generalities, but rather about budgetary amendments to the constituency. I must say to you that I unfortunately had to re-submit last year, because the problems are acute, they will not be solved, a year has passed, the TOP applications have been blown away. We will therefore have a hearing with the Member on 30 June and he will be a prime defendant. Nevertheless, I believe that investments and improvements must go on, so I would like to briefly describe the proposals that I have placed on the table and which the Member has not supported. Refurbishing inland roads in the field is certainly an essential task for the next budget, but we have not found any specific resources for this. However, it would be necessary, for example, to renovate Petőfi Sándor Street is a very frequent area within the city, and there are many, many roads with no solid cover, these are inaccessible in muddy, rainy weather, and neither the ambulance nor the garbage truck can enter. So there are unimaginable things in a city of 18,000 that are the 21st century. In the first century, they do not reach the minimum level of comfort. I think the 18 billion for government propaganda might be able to afford it. At the same time, it would be important to set up a bypass road next to the settlement. Route 46 should be set outside the city, as increased transit traffic has made this area somewhat unlivable. I would have planned five billion forints. Revitalization of the Hortobágy-Berettyó main channel is a thousand-year problem. Everyone wanted to touch it, but no one really has been able to do anything about it. There are plans, there are ideas, I think you've come to planning. I wanted to ask for a billion forints. The building of the college, which ceased to be a teaching building under the Fidesz government, still meets tourist criteria, would have been renovated to HUF 1 billion. It would also reach Törökszentmiklós, the centre of the constituency, a source for the development of inland roads, as it is also essential there, and the development of the road between Törökszentmiklós and Óballa is also necessary for the renovation of an almost untraceable road section of 11 kilometers. True, we are talking about a 100-mile settlement and a five-mile stretch, but I think that the people who live here also deserve to have living conditions at European level when they actually enter the city. In Törökszentmiklós, we could also talk about the town rehabilitation centre and its renovation, this torso, known as the, Piramis, which has not been completed for many years, has remained in the centre of the city to this day. The renovation of the Calvary church, which is practically the oldest building of Turkszentmiklós, and a going-away place, split in two, would make 150 million forints in the preservation and renovation of the texture. The reconstruction of the Galambos park in Törökszentmiklós is 200 million HUF, so we already have the plans. Playground, permanent event location, park development and other educational trails, water habitats would be included, the sum of this would be HUF 200 million. In Tiszaföldvár the renovation of inland roads is also very necessary, as well as the establishment, establishment and construction of the cultural centre; 2 billion HUF would be available for this. In fact, in Tiszaföldvár there is also an acute problem with the proper and smooth solution to medical care; HUF 500 million. In Cerkeszőlő there is a need to restore an access road. The 480 metres long connection road between Cserkeszőlő-Bogaras is of strategic importance for the settlement, and it is worth considering, as well as the renovation of the bicycle route connecting Cserkeszőlő with Kunszentmárton would also boost the everyday life of both those who come to work and those who want to go on holiday there. Another 900 million items came from cherry grapes, which would relate to the establishment of a residential nursing home near the spa. I think that this would also be a reasonable, not too far-reaching proposal. I would also like to share one more with you, and this is the renovation of the inland roads affecting Cibakháza, which would mean that more than half of the roads in the settlement do not have adequate road cover, which would be the solution of my proposal. Dear fellow Members, I have asked István Happy as a Member of Parliament to make all these proposals, but he has not supported them, but the opportunity will be given in the next vote. I feel it is very important to hear every little problem in a constituency, to translate it to you, and to make it happen in a vote, because prosperity is for all Hungarians. Thank you very much for your support. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi applauds.]]
u2021-05-21-62	Thank you. Our next speaker was Mr Simon Miklós, representative of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Today, May 21st, it's Defense Day. The Hungarian soldiers have always been there for us, and the country has always been there for us, so at the beginning of my speech I would like to thank the soldiers who serve the country and those who defend Hungary by the border. May God bless their work and give them health. We have heard a lot of contributions, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days on the draft budget law. Many positions have been expressed, but the point is clear: our country's budget for 2022 is the budget for restarting the country. It seeks to ensure the safety of Hungarian people in the right way, with its focus on economic recovery, job creation and family support. The Hungarian economy was in excellent condition at the turn of 2019-2020. This is when the virus situation and the crisis began, halting the dynamic growth that has marked all of our lives in these years. [[13.20]] This was seen in job creations and a significant increase in welfare expenditure. Fortunately, there was a resource to build the largest economic rescue package in Hungary's history, and there was enough resources and capacity to protect it. In 2022, the focus will clearly be on promoting the fastest possible recovery. The budget focuses on priority programmes, developments and investments aimed at relaunching the economy, and provides more than HUF 7300 billion of funding for measures to promote employment in the context of the economic re-launch action plan next year. Through the support of families, whether it is opportunities for children or for children, supplementing pensions or tax incentives for young people, the budget seeks to reach the widest number of Hungarian people and thus help them. And by boosting the economy, every person looking for a job can have the opportunity to find a job. After this brief introduction, I would like to say a few words about the special instrument for economic development and job creation, namely the development of the military industry. Hungary cannot be strong without a strong army, it will increase the security and strength of all Europe and the entire Transatlantic Alliance if our country is strengthened in the field of defence. The NATO recommendation, which makes the share of defence expenditure within GDP at least 2 per cent, points to the development of our forces in the case of our country. The government's goal is to reach this recommended ratio by 2024. The budget expenditure of the Ministry of Defence increases by 30 percent compared to this year's plans, exceeding HUF 1000 billion. The program of the Zrínyi 2026, which is nearly HUF 500 billion, will be used, which is roughly double the planned framework for this year. At the same time, our defence expenditures reach 1.78 percent of GDP, which has not been experienced since the early 2000s. We started from afar, ladies and gentlemen, there is room for the development of the Hungarian army. Between 2002 and 2010 Hungary's left-wing governments pushed Hungarian defence to the brink of disintegration. The continuing decline in our fighting ability, the irrational squandering of tools and infrastructure, and the destruction of soldiers, marked left-wing government. Between 2002 and 2010, there was no career model, the promised salary improvements were cancelled, the livelihoods of well-trained professionals working for the security of our country were increasingly threatened, so most of them decided to leave the military track and move elsewhere. During this period, more than 18,000 soldiers have fallen and the reserve system of the army has virtually ceased. Left-wing governments have sold about 50,000 war equipment and military equipment, if I want to express myself lightly, at symbolic prices and not even a concept for their replacement or any development. The development of our defences and its strength compared to the surrounding states were now decades behind. It was as if Hungary's defence capacities were being deliberately eliminated, although 17 out of the 31 years since the change of regime were years, honourable Members, when a serious armed conflict occurred in one of the neighbouring states. Since the change of government in 2010, we have managed to get to the point where we have begun to restore the appreciation of our soldiers, and along with a well-developed concept, the large-scale development of our forces has also begun. Zrínyi is unique in NATO as well. In such a short period of time, modernization in such volume and in such a wide spectrum is currently not the case within the framework of the Alliance. The objective is clearly to become a determining factor in the peace and security of Central Europe. But not only can the preservation of our sovereignty be achieved through the development of forces, the acceleration of economic growth, the creation of jobs, the revival of the research and development sector is also a result of this programme. Allow me to give you some examples. In order to reach an agreement with the German company Rheinmetall, Zalaegerszeg started the establishment of a factory for the production of infantry combat vehicles. The Lynx fighting vehicle is one of the most modern types in the world, its production would start in 2023, and 218 pieces of this type would also be regularized by the military. The plant will also have significant export potential and will create at least 500 new jobs. Two four-wheel-driven armoured military vehicles are also being acquired and their domestic production is underway under the Gidran project. The project will be based on Turkish vehicles, but both types will be further developed, of course according to European needs by Rheinmetall specialists and Hungarian engineers. A total of more than 300 such vehicles will be organized at the Hungarian Defence Office, and their production will be largely carried out in Hungary. The construction and production of weapons under the Czech licence has been under way for years at HM Arsenal's weapons factory in Kiskunfélegyháza and has recently been announced as future production of several new types. Steps have been taken to purchase new Brazilian-made jet transport aircraft. In addition, improvements in the operation of training aircraft can be envisaged in the future. Hungary's air defense system is being renewed. Our country has purchased one billion dollars worth of AMRAAM missiles from the United States, and the Rheinmetall Canada has also purchased ELM-2084-type radars, which are an important pillar of the Israeli iron dome missile defense system. All the Leopard armored men purchased in previous years arrived at Tata, they were already in sharpshooting, and the multipurpose military helicopters of the H145 M type ordered from Airbus are still arriving in our country. [[13.30]] Transport vehicles, the exchange of machine guns and armor-piercing weapons, the purchase of mobile anti-aircraft equipment and drone protection equipment are needed and the chance for a closer future within the framework of the military development programme. So, in short, these are the tools that are currently being purchased and set up for war within the framework of the Zrínyi 2026. However, it would not make sense, honourable Members, if we could not operate the new modern military arsenal without soldiers. The pandemic highlighted that the Hungarian Defence Forces under the civilian government represent a predictable and secure job. In recent years, the number of companies joining the defence has increased steadily, and last year the number of companies has increased significantly. In this first wave of epidemics, the voluntary reserve service form, which is part of the economic security action plan, has helped a lot, which has provided applicants with work and salaries in six months of training after a simplified fitness test. More than 1,300 people were able to help during the crisis, a significant number of whom decided to choose the Hungarian Defence Office as their long-term workplace. This successful programme should be continued, as well as programmes to broaden and strengthen the social relationship system of defence. The budget provides funds for the Honvéd Cadet Program and for the establishment of military secondary schools and colleges, which facilitates the development of patriotic defence education. Support for the Defence Sports Alliance and NGOs, care for the memory of fallen comrades and heroes, care for retired soldiers are all for this purpose, and hopefully they will be able to make the military career more attractive. Dear House, In this speech, I wanted to present the most important points of our country's defence budget in 2022. I believe that if we are able to continue at the current pace the process of re-establishing the Hungarian Defence Forces, then the goal will really be available for Hungary to become the decisive military force of our region again. I am convinced that these efforts will help to create a safer Hungary and a more peaceful Europe. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to discuss and vote on the draft law before us. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to the affairs of the better Members I have heard before me. Ander Balázs painted the program "Hungarian Village" (Hungarian Village). I will sign that Congressman Ander Balázs has good acting skills, but the reality of what he said has nothing to do with it. I've come from a periphery, too, though I refuse to express it, because Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, I suppose, in the eyes of many, especially Jobbik, we do not think so. Aids that have been granted in recent years [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] come from the government of national cohesion...
u2021-05-21-64	Congressman, please don't judge your fellow Member's speech, but get to the point. Thank you.
u2021-05-21-65	I understand, thank you, Mr. President. ...are the largest subsidies since the change of regime, and this is the case in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, so is Baranya County and Somogy County. The Hungarian village programme is an excellent program, not to mention the operational programme of territorial development. In our constituency alone, in 110 programmes we built health houses, kindergartens, schools, industrial parks, thousands of new jobs, I know that eight thousand new jobs have been created in the Birbátor constituency since 2010. And then you say nothing happens. I reject this and ask the honourable Parliament to reject the accusations of the better Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-66	Our next speaker is László Szakács, representative of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-05-21-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get to the subject I would like to talk about, I think it has been said many times during the debate on the budget, but it may not be possible to say enough: the Hungarian people are working a lot and well, they deserve to reduce their burden, they deserve to get a decent wage, they deserve it, especially those who are the most needy, who are in some kind of social care or who are having children, and then they are in a hurry, they deserve to increase their burden; those who are on a minimum wage deserve to reduce their tax burden, which we have put forward a proposal to reduce the minimum wage and the lowest wages by a tax credit, and then the tax burden on zero. This could have immediately increased the minimum wage to 136 thousand forints. What was most shocking about this was when the Economic Committee discussed this matter, because we did not discuss it here in plenary, and it could not even get this far, because you pushed it down by force, and the most shocking thing was that you did this by not making one single question, one comment. They didn't say their own position, they didn't say that our proposal was wrong, and we want to make it better, we want to help Hungarian workers, especially those who were least paid, that... but there was no continuation of this sentence, because at the Economic Committee meeting it was said that there was no question, no comment, then we vote, and you pushed it down, you took the money from the people's table, you took the bread from the people's table. I think it is certain that this has been said many times, and I am sure that it will be said many times, and every time we get to the public, we need to use it to say that you could have helped people, but you didn't, you didn't. Not with arguments, not with questions, not with cases or not with arguments or arguments that could have been used, but simply with no. The second thing I would like to get to is rather specific, but it is a very large part of the budget, and this is municipal farming. Now, we have heard from my fellow Member here what fantastic improvements are being made. [[Dr. Miklós Simon: That's right!]] I'm sure there are some. [[Dr. Miklós Simon: That's right!]] But most of all, I hear from the municipalities, obviously from Baranya County, since you brought it up, and I'm from Baranya, and I hear there, Komlón and Pécs, that sometimes they'd be out of development, but they can't really work, but they have to stop for a minute. These developments, which make everyday life easier for people living there, make it easier to access a service, make it cheaper to provide a public service, make it safer to explore them in the interests of one of the public services, so that it serves the city dwellers and creates value within a city that makes a city more livable, makes a settlement more livable? [[13.40]] Because if that's not what you're serving by accident, then you can tell that these improvements are dreams poured into concrete and earthstone. You can see that two handball court spaces can be renewed from 700-800 million forints, it must be good for someone who invests, but on the same day there are two pipe breaks, and sand flows from the faucet. Sometimes you get the feeling that when you talk about these matters, you have to tell you from the beginning how a city works, what happens when a city leaves between 3:30 and 4:00, what to do. When public transport starts, people start to work, when kindergartens open, when nursery schools open, so that people can take their children there before work, then roads should lead there, and green areas should be maintained, health institutions should be opened, schools should be opened and then operated. What we see is that the truth is that there are no more resources left for these. What we can see in these cases is that from de-blurring to maintenance of green areas, to a lot of things that can also be lived by a city, that they took a lot of money from them, that they had to be transferred elsewhere in operation. It's very simple: you have to pay rent in these cities, you have to pay rent, and then you have to take money from here, and then you get it, and you'll be able to maintain public areas, you'll manage to drive surface water, you'll be able to prepare for defecation properly, and you'll try to work with 20-30-year-old machines, and start a 20,000, 30,000 or 150,000 city every morning, start everyone working on 20-year-old buses, school, work. I think you have not paid enough attention to this. If I keep going, that's where the public services are. In a municipality, I think these may be the most important, and the 21st. In the century, we no longer feel like such a gentleman's prank that we open the faucet and the water flows from it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Beware of sage, for it will be precious.]] If we take the trash down to the dumpster, sooner or later, the garbage truck will come and take it. Waste management, you know, it's what you've managed to reform in such a dirty way, and then you're not sure they've always been operational, or if, let's say, it's a heating season, then heating starts in district heating apartments, because it's not clear everywhere. You know why? Because they taxed these companies to death with the utility tax. These companies are on a hundred billion HUF loan nationwide to pay for the utility tax. And you know what he doesn't get? It's for renovation and maintenance in Havary. If a heating pipe breaks in the middle of winter and there is no heating in 100-200 or 1000-2000 apartments, then it must wait there, ladies and gentlemen, because there was no money to develop, there was no money to maintain, there is only a war. Wherever I go, I'm sure if I go through a settlement, I'll find it somewhere, say, the local water utility or local district heating company's machines, and they've broken down the road somewhere, digging a ditch, fixing a pipe somewhere. I think that these are the things that you have not paid enough attention to in recent years, and have not given enough money to companies or cities, have not given them enough opportunity, and there have not been enough resources to do so, and not only have you been able to do so, my fellow Member. If you mentioned the TOP program, you should be able to account for it. Once again, I don't want to generalize, I'm sure that's what the people who lived there really wanted to accomplish, but if all of them were programme elements, all of them would have taken so much account of the interests of the people living in the settlement, not of the mayor, not of the builder, not of the I don't know whose, then tell me why this TOP was so secret in the first two rounds. If a county municipal representative or a Member of Parliament wanted to go in there and see what kind of developments are being made from billions in the county where he lives, then it was necessary to sign a non-disclosure statement. Is that how it works? I'm also asking the Secretary of State. Is this how it works that the congressman signs a non-disclosure statement to see what developments will be made in the county and then he doesn't get a copy of it? So it doesn't go the way it used to be in the spirit of transparency, whether it's e-mailed or paper-based, it doesn't. You can go in, you can take notes, and you can have two hours to watch 240 applications, or maybe 2400. Is that how it works? Is this your development policy? Is there any way that this is okay? And that's gonna be dreams in concrete? I'm sure it's wonderful to have a fourth arch built next to the third, or even in our town, if I've read it right, then they want to build a dinosaur park in the town of Komlo. Well, in an industrial city that's been depopulated, worth much better, and has seen far better times, there's nothing more to be done than a virtual dinosaur park. Are these improvements, my honourable fellow Member? ! Of course, I do not think that this question is unique. At home, for example, I keep in touch with Members, as the mayor of hops does not keep in touch with them, so I know what they think. They think it's quite simply impossible for the city's management to operate in such a way that, let's say, in the case of de-blurring, the director of the city management company is the one who gets on the plane, he pushes the snow, he pours the salt, because there's no man left. Earlier, everything could be solved because that's what the city was settling into with 1000-1200 public workers. Think of it as a 25-26,000 city at the time, and it was 1000-1200 public workers, but it's not there anymore. How many do you have? 80? 110? Half? I say to my fellow Member Nacsa: it is not because they have been placed on the primary labour market. I wish that were the case, but that's not it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] The average age of buses is almost 20 years, and you have fixed the waste management with national kukhading, as the common language called it, that you couldn't issue an invoice for about two years, the companies were given enough to starve, not go bankrupt, but they couldn't improve, and please, the waste vehicles that we bought from the ISPA programs are still on the road. Do you know when that was? A city must be provided with equipment purchased from those programmes before accession to the European Union. And when we said in the 2019 municipal campaign that we wanted a small European town, or that we wanted a European city in Pécs, it had a lot of attractions. Yeah, it's also an attraction to be transparent, transparent in farming, and to know that, let's say, the sewer cover is on the same level as the road. We also saw in Pécs that you destroyed it twice: from 2010 to 2014, 10 billion deficits were made, consolidated again, and then from 2014 to 2019 they did the same again and consolidated again. Who's left? To the new leadership elected, who replaced the Fidesz leadership, and who now pay back the state which consolidated it very, very, very, very precisely for the moment, the state is the largest creditor of the city the money that the former Fidesz leadership squandered. [[13.50]] I would also ask you to support the amendment that I have tabled. I have calculated that in the town of Komló these assets, which have been demoted in the last 15 years, 10 years, since you have not replaced them, since you have had a fidesz leadership of the city, and have not replaced the infrastructure elements from which a city operates, that they know these noble things, that they take away the trash, open the faucet, that water flows from it, that you can walk down the road without biting your tongue, and I could tell you that we need 4.5 billion forints. That's what's been missing for the last 10 years since this town had a fidesz run, which they haven't replaced. There's no such thing as buying a new one, there's no such thing as developing something, just to replace it in its old place, its worn-out place, the place that the years have worn out, since it hasn't been replaced as depreciation, we'll make up for it. This is 4.5 billion forints in the town of Komló. I trust you can support him. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-05-21-68	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to point out that you have used the term "Fidesz" - which, according to Mr Speaker, is extremely offensive to the Fidesz. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: 10 million!]] On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, from KDNP.
u2021-05-21-69	I would also like to point out to Mr Ander Balázs that his speech would be much more credible, for example, in the interests of Komló, if he had acknowledged the efforts that had taken place in Komló. You've described it and talked about the work of people in hops as if it hadn't been worth a damn in the last ten years. You insult them, honourable Member, but you want us. The fact that the 27 percent unemployment you left in 2010 has now become 8 percent in Komlón is due to the government's policy of job creation and the hard work of hops. The fact that you do not mention industrial park development, factory hall, leisure park, school renovation, kindergarten renovation, waste water treatment plant, sewerage network, various investments that have been made in Komló over the past ten years, specifically the denial of reality. Show me a government statement that Komlón is all right, or anywhere in the country everything that we wanted has been achieved. You won't be able to show me this because we haven't done this job yet. We've done a lot of work in the last few years, and I've been listing it here with the hop people, and you're the only one who's insulting the common work of the hop people. By the way, honourable Member, it is very good news that there are not so many public workers, because that means that they have found work on the labour market. You don't want back the 1800-1900 community service camp! We should be glad that there are a lot fewer people, because they have found jobs, found opportunities in the primary labour market, can thrive and step one by one. I think this is a very important result of the economic policy and the job creation policy of the last ten years, which I would not deny or weep back at people in the public works system in this size, but I would be glad that the unemployment rate in Komló has decreased from 27 percent to 8 percent in ten years. You didn't have much help with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-21-70	I would also like to address Mr László Szakács, representative of the MSZP for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He said this exactly. I wish the unemployed were less. I wish there were fewer public workers, my honourable fellow Member. Do you know who's shorthanded? The Hoppers. The number of people in this city was 26,700 in 2010. Now we had to shut down a municipal district because they couldn't even statistically exceed 23,500 people, practically 19 to 20 thousand people live in that city. Technically, my honourable fellow Member, it is not that more work has been found there, although it is, believe me, I would be happy for it. In the hope of a better life, they went somewhere else, six to seven thousand missing from the city. You can see there's a ten-story building with three of the 30 apartments. They're in the other ones, and it happens in the rest of the nights, but you don't see it anymore, because that's another video, and that's what you're watching. So the thing is, we're happy that there's a development, we're happy that if the industrial park had developed, if it hadn't improved, we'd be very happy if we could expand an industrial zone, and we'd be happy if someone could be lured there. What we see is that the government doesn't help you there. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-05-21-72	The next speaker was Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech yesterday, I gave a detailed description of the amendments I tabled to the 2022 central budget. One of these is the 19.1 billion HUF package for the rehabilitation of Balaton, for which I asked my fellow Members, Lajos Rig and Ádám Steinmetz, the five pro-government representatives on the shore of Balaton. Today, one of the Members' assistants indicated that they were not invited to sign. I have already indicated this to them that in the ParLex system, in which we can formally submit these amendments and ask our fellow Members to join us, this request was made to the Member at 9:41 p.m. Then it would have been possible to sign for 15 hours and 50 minutes, he did not, so they missed it during the submission. That's what I took out of the comment you made to me on the social media platform. So basically, his problem was that he couldn't join, he didn't know how to do it computerly, so Jobbik's codification department prepared the paper form to which the Member will be able to join. [[Continue in 201/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary Of course, we need our contribution to this, and we will give it to the full, because we believe that the rehabilitation of Lake Balaton is indeed a common concern for all of us, that everyone should join it, and how good it would be if we could bring it together together in the Committee on Economic Affairs, because I submitted this amendment to the Economic Committee. You will have a detailed debate next week and the adoption of the amendments. In addition, since we feel that this is a very, very important matter, it is a joint matter of all Hungarians, we will ask for it even before the Parliament. One of the ten options of the Jobbik Group is to support the rehabilitation of Lake Balaton. So once again, I would like to ask the Member that if he could not sign it electronically, he could not support this proposal with his signature in the ParLex system, then he should do so on paper. I'll give you my consent. I will now take this form, this paper, to the Fidesz Group Group's office, and I will give it to the secretariat, where Congressman can sign it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-21-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says he wants to. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-21-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to thank you for the work you have done in the last three days to adopt the bill on the central budget for 2022. I see this debate not only about the details of the 2022 bill, but also about the economic policy and values that the government has been following since 2010. We did not want to change this economic policy and this system of values, so the bill before you has not changed in the situation caused by the epidemic. We are building a work-based society, so we support the preservation of jobs and the creation of new jobs, and we want to achieve Hungary's future economic positions by increasing performance, supporting investment, innovation and territorially balanced growth, and, above all, paying particular attention to strengthening families, the appreciation of older people and supporting child rearing. [[14.00]] We are convinced that this value-based economic policy has been successful in recent years. This is confirmed by the data that the Hungarian economy is now 30 percent higher than its 2010 performance. This is demonstrated by the fact that, despite the crisis, around 800,000 more people are working today compared to the 2010 employment figures, and this is demonstrated by the fact that average earnings and real earnings have risen substantially each year since 2012. From the point of view of helping families, it is worth saying that having children today is easier in terms of material circumstances than it was many years ago. Today, there is an increased childishness, although the fertility rate has not yet reached the desired level above 2. In the next year's draft budget law, we expect a deficit target of 5.9 percent, 3 percent inflation and dynamic 5.2 percent economic growth in addition to the primary focus on work and support for families. As a result of the planned levels of deficit and economic growth, the debt ratio will be reduced in 2021 and 2022 following a steady decline in 2012-19, following an increase due to the global economic crisis in 2020. We expect that the debt-to-GDP ratio will decrease to below 80% this year and to 79.3% next year. Some opposition representatives questioned the government forecasts for these corner numbers, the economic growth plan number was too optimistic, inflation was under-planned, and the planned pace of debt reduction was considered to be within the margin of error. Despite the uncertainty that is always surrounding the macro-economic path, we must say that, not only the government, but also the Fiscal Council, the central bank and the European Commission, the macro-track numbers are realistic. The macroeconomic fundamentals of the draft budget need to be considered even more robust in the light of extremely good GDP data in the first quarter of this year's European comparison. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) (The notary seat was given by Attila Móring József and Bence Tordai takes over.) Dear House, Next year's budget focuses on the economic re-launch action plan, which is the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary. The implementation of the action plan will allow everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover. This means that we also use the budget's resources to ensure that everyone who has lost their job can get it back or get a new job, and that any entrepreneur who has had to close his business can restart it and even develop it further if possible. From the opposing side, there has been strong criticism of the re-launching policy based on development. Some opposition speakers have said that if we were to pour the money into concrete, that is all the investments are about. Other opposition representatives, contrary to the above, have proposed even more investment, for example, many would give greater support to the road renovation programme than planned in the budget. I believe that the budget finds the right middle ground between these controversial efforts. It is in our fundamental interest to maintain a high investment rate for both state-funded investments and private investment, as it is a historical experience that this is the only way to ensure a lasting economic catch-up, which can ensure a persistently high level of jobs. Our primary goal is that they all find their place in the primary labour market. The process, which can be seen, for example, in the decline in the number of public workers, should continue in the next period. In parentheses, I note that there was a time when the number of public workers was well over 200,000, today around 90,000, despite the crisis. It has been said that the draft budget law will result in a wide range of people, pensioners and those who have lost their jobs because of the epidemic, as it does not provide sufficient resources for these purposes. Several opposition proposals show that many still look for a solution to social problems from aid. Proposals for a double or triple increase in some social aid were made before the plenum. In a little bit of a lively way, it is clear that such measures cannot be used to support the family crisis created by the epidemic. Such solutions would be a burden to the budget of hundreds, if not a thousand billion, and thus indirectly to taxpayers, but would obviously not be a sustainable solution. Now, when the Covid-19 virus has resulted in an economic crisis that is more serious than the 2008-9 crisis, and at global economic level, the decline is significantly greater than it was ten years ago, and Hungary is also affected by this process, the performance of the Hungarian economy has also decreased positively, that it has affected the Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian families, to a lesser extent than the EU average, and indeed it has also affected Hungarian businesses. I repeat, at the same time, the only way out of this negative situation is not to support unemployment, but to try to help those who have lost their jobs back into the labour market as soon as possible, and perhaps, before that, with the support of businesses, by financing new investments, to ensure that people are not unemployed. Protecting and creating jobs is a real solution. Wage support may be a small element of this, but again, we believe that, with the support of investments, we can permanently protect jobs and maintain the wage growth that, by the way, marked the Hungarian economy in 2020 as regards those who remain in employment. Average wage and inflation-adjusted real wage growth was also achieved last year. Therefore, in pursuing this policy, next year's draft budget law is called an economic re-launch budget, the main element of which is the economic re-launch action plan. This action plan represents the availability of a total of HUF 7308 billion of 13 per cent of GDP in 2022. The crisis management government economic policy combined with development and job retention and creation has already been proven in 2020 as we see that the economic downturn is smaller as mentioned, that the decline in household consumption is much more moderate and that the level of employment was higher than in the EU as a whole. The proportion of people exposed to severe material deprivation, including pensioners, has declined steadily in recent years. Opponents, as it has become clear in the debate, would nevertheless have wanted to apply aid-based solutions in the majority of EU countries or in many countries, even in 2022, in my opinion, misguided. Ladies and Gentlemen, There is no budget for which it cannot be said that we are spending even more on one area. During the debate, a number of proposals were made, and more criticism was expressed about where more money should be provided. On the other hand, we have also heard criticisms that the government acts irresponsiblely when it comes to a budget planning the greatest deficit in the last ten years, although this deficit level in next year is already declining compared to the deficit level to be amended in 2020-21. It should be noted that the 2022 budget is acceptable in the EU comparison, with an average deficit target corresponding to the temporary suspension of EU budget rules by the European Commission, which provides more resources for almost all areas than it did a year ago. We are also doing this in the spirit of the countercyclical policy, which has often been cited as examples, which counterbalances market developments. In line with all of this, approximately HUF 2884 billion will be available for health purposes, which is nearly HUF 1700 billion more than it was in 2010 and about HUF 770 billion higher than this year's funds. Resources for education exceed HUF 2180 billion next year. This represents an increase of more than HUF 735 billion compared to 2010. I would note here that not only public education but also higher education expenditure is increasing, but the central budget proposal for model-shifting institutions contains only the support of the institutions, not the own income of the organisations concerned. I also have to say that, regardless of the fact that the government does not want to use the credit leg of the European Union's recovery facility, we want to make a number of investments in higher education institutions in the coming years from own resources, so next year's budget bill investment fund chapter also accounts for HUF 90 billion for higher education investments. [[14.10]] There have also been many words of support for families in the last three days. Here the support of families, the value-based policy of the government, is shown by the fact that in 2022 the draft budget provides some HUF 2778 billion for this purpose. This amount is nearly HUF 483 billion higher than the budget this year. Next year, the funding for the support of Hungarian families is nearly threefold higher than it was in 2010. We provide more than 380 billion forints in next year's budget for the continuation of the home creation programme. This is two and a half times the 2010 value. The budget for social security and welfare services will be increased by HUF 430 billion, thus the area will reach nearly HUF 7000 billion in 2022. The second instalment of the 13th month's pension will be HUF 255 billion more for pensions, including HUF 83 billion, and the pension premium will increase by HUF 15 billion compared to 2021. These are therefore only increases in relation to the first instalment of this 13th month's pension and the planned amount of pension premium this year. I say this because we hope that this year will exceed 3.5 percent, we plan to increase the growth rate by more than 4 percent. More than HUF 50 billion will be available for environmental protection through domestic and EU funds. We also finance a number of investments that are in line with environmental objectives. Although there was a debate on investment in Paks II, we believe it is an investment that makes a substantial contribution to the carbon-free economy. All these surpluses should also be assessed in the light of the fact that the Fiscal Council has proposed a deficit target of less than 5.9 per cent planned by the government. The government therefore considers it important to have additional resources available for these purposes, and nevertheless shares the position of the Fiscal Council that, at the level of economic growth, the downward path of the debt ratio should be maintained. Dear Parliament, Once again, the accusation has been found that the budget is the budget of one percent of the upper social class, only large companies and multinationals winning public procurements will be supported, and domestic SMEs will be losers. How unfair the accusation that the government's economic policy does not benefit the entire domestic business sector is shown by data reflecting productivity improvements in small and medium-sized enterprises. If we had not focused on SMEs, we would not have experienced the data we are presenting now. While national labour productivity increased by a total of 9 percent between 2013 and 2019, the productivity of SMEs increased by about 30 percent until 2018, which is about double the average of the also rapidly growing Visegrád region and four times the EU average. Of course, there is work to be done, since the labour productivity of SMEs remains only half of that of large companies. This is why we maintain preferential tax and credit schemes for SMEs and give priority to this company in the allocation of tender money which also improves efficiency. SMEs and their efficiency and productivity increase are one of the objectives of the 2022 budget. In addition to government and central bank assistance, let us not go beyond the fact that large domestic companies that have won public procurement in the last decade have honourably paid their suppliers most of them out of the SME sector, which typically obtain 80% of the value of public procurement. This was not always the case, during the two thousand years, huge chain debts made the lives of a wide range of domestic contractors miserable, causing many of them to go bankrupt. And if we look at targeted measures for the broad layers, let us not go beyond the fact that next year's budget will continue to reduce taxes on all businesses. We hope that the debt ratio will also decrease and thus the debt burden to be financed from corporate tax. However, as far as taxes are concerned, the employer's tax burden may be reduced by 2 percent from July 2022, namely the reduction of the social contribution tax of 0.5 per cent and, in addition, the imposition of a 1.5 per cent vocational training contribution. The rate of the social contribution tax may be reduced to 15 per cent. It is recalled that this tax was at 27 per cent until the end of 2016 trialogue, government, employer and employer agreement. According to some opposition representatives, revenge against opposition authorities is about the 2022 budget, and I have heard this many times about municipal funding. From the beginning, the government's position was that everyone, including the municipalities, had to take their part in the fight against the epidemic. The vehicle tax has been transferred to control the epidemic and a trade tax reduction of up to 1 per cent for small and medium-sized enterprises has been introduced to mitigate the effects of the Crown Virus pandemic on the national economy. This latter source left money in the given settlements, not in the municipalities, but in the businesses, because it is in our fundamental aim and in the interest of the municipalities that economic growth should return to the level that marked the Hungarian economy before the crisis. In the context of the 1 percent business tax rate for SMEs, it should be pointed out that the government fully compensates for the loss of revenue in less than 25,000 municipalities with less than 25,000 inhabitants. In the case of municipalities with a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants, they are supported on the basis of an objective methodology independent of the party standing of their management. In response to criticisms of the financial situation of municipalities in apocalyptic terms, I would like to point out that the sovereign and commercial bank funds for the operation and self-promoting of local governments amounted to HUF 1107.3 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2021. This is higher than the many times mentioned at the end of last year, even slightly above the end of 2019. In addition, next year's draft budget law, which concerns direct financial relations between municipalities and central government, concerns a reduction in solidarity contribution tax of HUF 25 billion, and therefore a lower amount of solidarity contribution should be paid by municipalities and their subsidies increased by nearly HUF 9 billion. In addition, the next year's bill before you also devotes considerable resources to local governments under the goals of the "Modern Cities" programme and the "Hungarian Village" programme. There are also EU programmes. The combined value of all these amounts to approximately HUF 400 billion. The re-launch fund will provide support for a number of investments in opposition-led municipalities. Without the need for completeness let me mention some of the following:. In the framework of the Healthy Budapest, the South-Pest Centrum Hospital, North-Pest Centrum Hospital, North-Central Buda Centrum Hospital planning processes, preparation of licensing and export plans, investments in co-hospitals; further expansion of the tram-train fleet in order to improve the quality of community transport in Hódmezővásárhely-Szeged, or several projects of the University of Szeged; but I could also mention the preparation and implementation of the Tatabánya multifunctional hall. In addition to these investments, I must point out once again that, in addition to the expansion of government normative subsidies and the implementation of individual investments, I trust that business tax revenues will also increase with local authorities, as an increase of more than 5 percent could result in additional revenues for them. Dear Parliament, Before the parliamentary submission of the draft budget law proposal, the draft was sent by the government to the Board of Budgets and the State Audit Office. At the beginning of the debate on the bill, President Árpád Kovács and President László Domokos presented the opinions of the two organisations, who, independent of government, considered them credible, enforceable and well-founded. [[14.20]] It is natural that, in terms of deficit and debt levels, opinions, differences and opinions could be formulated, but I repeat: the draft was considered credible, enforceable and justified. I think that the opinions of government and domestic institutional organisations have been complemented by the Commission's forecasts published in one or two weeks prior to the submission of the bill, as well as the IMF's prognosis, which, as already mentioned, shows even more optimistic figures than the growth of the Hungarian economy next year. The Commission expects an increase of 5.5 per cent, the IMF of 5.9 per cent, and these organisations also believe that the debt ratio can be reduced, including an increase in the number of employees and an increase in wages. We have a number of tasks ahead of us, of course. I think that we could highlight a lot of areas from the debate over the last three days, where, together, we think that we have something to do, regardless of party standing, but still, next year can bring a better result on the lives of families, businesses and municipalities both in terms of macroeconomic figures and in the implementation of the budget than we can see this year. I trust that development can characterize the Hungarian economy next year. In view of all of this, I thank you very much for your attention and I would like to recommend the adoption of the draft budget law. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-21-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. We will continue our work by informing you that the committees will discuss the amendments next week. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2022 will follow until closure. The government referral T/16210. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. I would like to give the floor once again to Minister of State, Minister of the Ministry of Finance, Péter Benő Banai. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-05-21-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The general debate on the draft budget law 2022 has just been concluded. This bill is called the economic re-launch budget. This draft, as has been said many times, focuses on preserving jobs, supporting families, reducing taxes and supporting investment. The aim of the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2022 is to establish the legislative and regulatory frameworks that are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the 2022 Budget Act and to those objectives. Please allow me, before presenting the main proposals for amendments, to indicate that, in the case of support for the bill, a significant part of the amendments, like last year, can be announced almost half a year before their entry into force, thus ensuring sufficient preparation time to learn about changes in the financial, economic and regulatory environment. This can further enhance predictability and predictability for the economy and for all actors in society, and the latter are very important aspects in the context of the pandemic economic situation. This can help us, therefore, to make the negative impact of the pandemic on the Hungarian economy and the financial situation less noticeable and to recover as quickly as possible. In addition, disciplined fiscal management remains a basis for the government and the aim remains to operate a simpler, more flexible public finances system. The bill therefore affects on several points certain provisions of the Public Finance Act. As part of the rule of law governing public finances, the clarification of the civil and criminal liability of persons exercising the powers of commitment, vouchering and enforcement, as proposed by the State Court of Auditors, should be highlighted in particular with regard to disciplined management. The practical experience of the audit of budgetary bodies has shown that some management powers do not provide sufficient grounds for exercising responsibility for these powers within the framework of the current legislation. To this end, the proposal enhances the civil and criminal liability of persons exercising the powers of commitment, vouchering and enforcement. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to ensure that the principle of sound management of public funds is respected and to ensure uniform guarantee rules for the use of grants, it has become necessary to raise the rule on the use of grants to a legal level. According to this, the local government can make use of its temporarily free funds from budgetary support by purchasing sovereign debt, but may use the resulting returns and interest income exclusively for expenditure related to the supported activity. This regulation has been part of the legal order so far, but the aim is to bring this rule to the legal level. The proposal therefore does not represent any change in the material legal sense, but only strengthens the guarantee conditions for the use of interest income from development resources for development purposes. The amendment to allow the metropolitan and county government offices to initiate the audit of the State Audit Office in the framework of the legality audit will also help to further facilitate the more efficient and efficient operation and management of local authorities, prior to the financial compliance audit by the Hungarian Treasury. In addition to giving a more comprehensive picture of the operation and management of local authorities, this amendment could result in more complex control by allowing control by the Treasury and the State Audit Office to be complementary activities. The Minister for Public Finance is currently the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. provide, inter alia, for the management of the State's temporarily free funds. An important part of this task is the prediction of the expected stock of free funds in the accounts held by the Hungarian Treasury. This can be done by the provision of the bill before you, according to which the bodies in the municipal sub-scheme, which hold a payment account in the Hungarian Treasury, will provide data on the expected use of the deposit accounts held in the single treasury account in the future and on the effects of the use on the net need for financing. The proposal serves the availability of more accurate and up-to-date information, which serves predictability and planning. It is clear that the proposal aims to give the Government a more accurate picture, not of the development of the local government's own payment accounts, but of the use of the funds available in the single treasury account. The proposal would also complement two existing reporting obligations to be fulfilled in the public finance information system in order to facilitate the application of the law and to establish a single regulation. These were regulated in the Central Budget Act until the proposed provision was drawn up. According to the proposal, county authorities in the area of the special economic zone would set out the resources allocated to support from the amount of local taxes and the reporting obligations of local authorities in relation to the amount of the business tax base determining the capacity of the local authorities to carry out business taxation and data between the rules on reporting obligations to be fulfilled in the general government's information system. In addition, the government, among local authorities, also takes into account the need to remove high administrative burden rules from public finance legislation, which are no longer justified. Therefore, on the basis of the experience gained in the application of the law, we are abandoning provisions with which local authorities are increasingly using. The current legislation provides for the possibility for self-checking by municipalities in their annual budget statements on the use of subsidies during the budget year. However, the number of these self-checks is reduced every year. For 2019, 4; for 2018 5; for 2017 2; for 2016 17; for 2015 only 12 times the municipalities made use of this option. Local authorities tend to initiate improvements in the reporting of aid rather than self-control. The amendment does not affect the municipalities in general, as they can continue to exercise this power during the annual review, so it is only a reduction in administration. [[14.30]] In order to facilitate the application of the law, the bill extends by two years the eight-year deadline laid down in the Law on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies during which compliance with the electronic information security conditions of public and municipal bodies is required. The proposal thus allows public and municipal bodies to develop an electronic system to ensure the effective protection of information, in addition to the up-to-date registration of information concerning their operation and management. Dear House, In the course of what has just been said, several words have been said about the aid and its use. In this context, I would also like to highlight our proposal for an amendment relating to uncontested aid. In the course of the application of the law, the problem has repeatedly been that in many cases the parties to the grant relationship have not been able to judge which authority or court is competent to decide on the dispute in connection with the procedure for the establishment of the grant relationship. The bill clearly states that disputes arising in proceedings for the establishment of a grant relationship with a supporting instrument or a grant contract are not a government body, but an independent civil court is entitled to decide within the framework of a civil action. With regard to the courts, it is important to point out that the bill also contains amendments in order to relieve the burden of the normal judicial organisation system. According to this, the proposal for a permanent concessionary arbitration court to be set up by the Law on the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities sets out basic rules on concession procedures and disputes relating to concession contracts by including it in the Arbitration Act. Accordingly, the proposal states that disputes relating to concession procedures and concession contracts fall within the competence of the permanent arbitration court or arbitration panel established in accordance with their rules of procedure. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to ensure transparency and responsible management of resources from the central budget, the bill before you also extends the possibility of sending the budgetary supervisor to companies owned exclusively by a company owned by at least the majority of the state. On the basis of the proposal, it will therefore be possible to assign a budgetary supervisor to a company owned exclusively by the State, at least by a majority company. The reason for this is that, although these subsidiaries engaged in economic activities are considered to be separate legal entities, their organisation and management still depend to a large extent on the parent company wholly owned by the State. As a result of this amendment, there can also be continuous control of subsidiaries by ensuring the use of public funds in accordance with uniform principles even at the beginning of the expenditure process. In this respect, it is important to point out that there is no change in the functioning, legality and economic control of subsidiaries. The budgetary supervisor may also make only proposals and opinions on the use of public funds for these companies, and on the basis of these resolutions and opinions, the operation of the company may result in a more efficient use of public funds. I would like to stress that the secondment of the budgetary supervisor is not a new legal institution, the amendment broadens an existing power. Ladies and Gentlemen, The government's primary objective is to ensure the functioning of scientific research and its financing. If you support the bill before you, it will contribute to this goal on two points. The amendment of the Act on Scientific Research, Development and Innovation to the Programme of National Laboratories, in addition to the inclusion of its operation and funding in the budget, will provide a legal basis for the inclusion of it in the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund in order to properly meet the policy objectives. The proposal also adds to the scope of the support that can be paid to the . National labs, creating consistency with the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Scientific freedom is also closely linked to protecting the interests of future generations, ensuring and facilitating the location of persons with sufficient expertise, and creating and protecting value-added work. This is to be done by the provision of the proposal which allows budgetary bodies to grant scholarships to students and students who are worthy of it. Practical experience has shown that it has not been possible to grant scholarships to students and students worthy of it because of obligations that could be assumed without consideration by budgetary bodies falling within the central sub-scheme of public finances and a guarantee ban on payments to be made. The proposal therefore looks to the future in this direction as well. Dear House, I would like to briefly refer to an amendment to the Government Debt Management Centre. In order to ensure the broadest possible application of the principle of transparent and verifiable budgetary management, the Government Debt Management Centre is excluded from the scope of the Law by amending the Law on the Savings of Public Companies. The amendment is justified by the company's special task under the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary, according to which the primary and most important activity of this company is the management of debt-generating transactions. Experience has shown that the implementation of the provisions on the operation of the internal control system at the State Debt Management Centre Zrt. cannot be regarded as a value-enhancing activity because of this special activity and may, where appropriate, detract capacity from tasks that are necessary for the achievement of economic strategic objectives. Therefore, the debt management centre should also operate an internal control system, as appropriate, but not in such a way as is expected for public bodies that, for example, pay subsidies. The amendment also clarifies the activities of the supervisory board of publicly owned companies and the role of the supervisory board in its external audit and advisory activities. The transparency and legality of the operation, management and management of public finances are of national interest, and this is facilitated by the proposed legislation, stressing the rules of the internal control system and stressing the responsibilities of the managers of the economic operators that make up the public sector's subsystems. The proposed amendment will also allow, in addition to the supervisory board, the shareholder to initiate the establishment and operation of the internal control system for such companies. Dear Parliament, In order to reduce the administrative burden on the health insurance system, to ensure the efficient, safe and smooth operation of the related IT systems and to facilitate the tasks of insured persons in relation to health insurance, it will be possible, by adopting the bill, to require reimbursement of travel expenses by insured persons on a paper form no longer required. It follows from practical experience that both the doctor who issued the referral and the insured person have a significant additional burden. The starting point of the new system of travel grants under this bill is that the insured person no longer has to ask the referee's doctor in advance to issue the form for the travel charge voucher. Instead, the institution of the place of appearance will record in an IT system that the patient has requested travel support. With the amendment, the decision on reimbursement of travel costs will therefore take place in the future under an automatic decision-making procedure, which could also speed up payment of travel costs to claimants. In order to reduce the abuse of rights, an amendment to the provision allowing the transfer of certain salaries to a foreign account is also included in the law governing a wide range of public sector entities. Experience has shown that in the case of persons who live in Hungary and work here and who have a public service relationship, there is an unjustified increase in the state's expenditure if employers can transfer their salary to foreign payment accounts under the same conditions and free of charge. It is therefore necessary to change this economically unfavorable practice and to exempt the central budget from unnecessary expenditure associated with this poor practice. In this regard, however, it is important to stress that there are legal exceptions to the former case, such as the case of foreign posting, the external service, which is not affected by this amendment. [[14.40]] In order to reduce these abusive trends, the bill clarifies the laws governing employment relationships in relation to organisations covered by centralised salary accounting. As a result, the employer would bear the cost of the transfer only if the HUF bill was referred to, and only then would the rule of payment be applied until the 5th day of the month concerned. In the event that the employee carries out his or her duties abroad or is assigned there, a reference to the foreign account number may be justified. In this case, it is unjustified to expect the employer to bear the significant additional cost of the monthly reference. The intention of the legislator to eliminate practices involving incorrect and unnecessary expenditure is followed by another similar amendment proposing the imposition of a penalty for the payment of salaries. All this is necessary for employers who comply with their statutory reporting obligations with false data content or delay of more than three months, thus harming both the Hungarian State and the employees for whom the accounting is carried out by the Hungarian Treasury. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of the bill before Parliament form a substantive unity with the bill on the central budget for 2022. The individual amendments and regulatory clarifications aim to substantially strengthen the framework for responsible and effective implementation of next year's budget. I therefore ask you to discuss the bill and support it later. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that he wished to live in the house rules 36. § 11 of the Rules of Procedure, so I shall give the floor to the President. I would like to inform you that you have a 15-minute timeframe. Mr. President, please.
u2021-05-21-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I asked for the floor in the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2022 because it contains a number of legislative amendments on which I consider it appropriate to draw your attention to the audit experience and professional position of the Court of Auditors. In my speech, I will address four specific issues in a supportive manner, with a focus on one subject and a further amendment on two issues with an initiative towards Members. I must state in every way that, as a result of a long consultation, these amendments have been made, taking into account our experience and position over these years in relation to the amendment of this law. Each of these four themes contributes to the strengthening of transparent, responsible and accountable management with public money, national wealth, and I would therefore argue in favour of and demonstrate what our experience is. First of all, the bill is 3. In paragraph 1 of the Act on the tasks and powers of local governments and their bodies, the representatives of the Republic, and the bodies of certain central subordinations, the annual XX. By amending law, the notary shall repeal the establishment of its own accounting system and its institutions, as well as the non-resignation of the undertaking, among its management tasks and powers. The Court welcomes this. The experience of the audit of the Court of Auditors' municipal authorities has shown that, in particular, the correct interpretation of the accounting law in the case of municipal institutions is of great importance and requires a high level of professional competence. According to the accounting law, the person entitled to represent the farmer is responsible for the establishment of the accounting order and, in the case of municipal institutions, its head. This responsibility has been weakened by the provision now proposed for repeal, and we therefore consider it important to amend the bill and repeal it. The same is true of the financial countersignation function, which is the responsibility of the competent, responsible and accountable economic leader under the general government rules, and thus the order of the formation of accounting and the responsible management behaviour under the Fundamental Law. It confirms this instrument, not to say that it was irregular, but it makes the situation clearer in any way. In the second subject, the bill is 17. In paragraph 2 of Section 2, the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. It amends the Act by allowing the metropolitan and county authorities responsible for the legal supervision of local governments to initiate the control of the Hungarian Treasury in the event of a finding of an irregularity, prior to the initiation of the Court of Auditors' investigation, depending on the outcome of the audit of the Treasury. A lot of people have misunderstood this and I therefore consider it important that the existing order remains, but the fact that a 2015 general government rule is valid as of 1 January 68 is emerging. In paragraph B of Section B of Section B, the Treasury has already defined the regular financial control of the annual budgetary accounts of local governments as a task to be performed by the Treasury in accordance with the functions and powers of the SAO's audit function as laid down in the cardinal law. The purpose of the verification is to establish that the annual reports of the municipal subsystem are reliable, show a real picture and contain a material error affecting reliability. The financial audit carried out by Treasury has therefore been incorporated into the line of defence of the control of the municipalities since 2015, i.e. the control role of the second line of defence of the municipalities has been strengthened, thus including the financial control of the municipalities under the legal supervision of the municipalities. The SAO has therefore already raised in its report on its activities in 17 that it is proposed to strengthen the legislative coordination framework for the three levels of public finance control. The amendment of the bill strengthens this coordination, as it states that government agencies can initiate an investigation into the management of the local government at the State Court of Auditors, depending on the outcome of the treasury audit, in their powers of judicial oversight, so that the Court of Auditors will actually be able to exercise the role of the third line of defence and should not have to manifest itself in the so-called second line of defence. This provision of the bill is therefore capable of strengthening the role of the existing line of defence on government control, thereby promoting transparency of public funds , the implementation of the basic principles of law on the accountability of public entities, and thus the regulation of the 15th year, which gave the Treasury the opportunity to carry out a comprehensive system check, or imposed an obligation, so that the Treasury will act primarily on behalf of the State even for case-by-case suspicions of abuse or control reasons. I think that it is a pity to make a policy out of this, as I have read the opinions on this, and I think that if Members judge this professionally, it will create harmony, create a legislative harmony, and cover practically the practice, it will only make the situation clear. The SAO therefore welcomes this role-clearing. The third amendment is the 2011 CXCV on public finances. amendment of law, the bill 20, 21. It clarifies the responsibility of those exercising key management powers, which ensures that the sound management of public funds is still sufficiently documented. The general government rules currently link the feasibility of budgetary payments to five signatures. However, according to the audit experience of the State Audit Office, two signatures are of paramount importance: the signature of the undertaking and the person certifying the performance. In its report on its activities in 2017, the Court of Auditors has therefore raised the need for a fundamental reduction in the bureaucracy of current finances by rethinking public finances' powers, i.e. reducing excessively bureaucratic, complex legislation. [[14.50]] In an emergency, I think it is all the more important, as it shortens the minimum requirement for administrative functions, and thus will probably facilitate the work of many tens of thousands of administrators in a more efficient accounting system, by adapting obviously responsible management regulations, and by ensuring the minimum documentation of these powers, but also responsible management, so we clearly see this as a breakthrough in the reduction in the administrative burden of the state, because, if you think about it, we are talking about billions of transactions, which, in everyday regulatory circumstances, I think, many will welcome this facilitation. On the fourth subject, the bill 30. According to § 2 (2) of the Act, the amendment of public finances requires the Minister responsible for public finances to notify the entities classified in the government sector and the entities exercising ownership rights over them of their classification. The audit experience of the State Audit Office has shown earlier that organisations in the government sector often did not have any information about their status as an organisation, thus not complying with their additional obligations arising from their classification, which may ultimately have an impact on the balance of public finances. The obligation to provide information on changes to public finances therefore supports other entities classified in the government sector in order to facilitate their proper management. I must indicate here that in the case of a number of companies, the SAO's audit revealed this task. So we were able to signal management in the third line of control that it had certain reporting obligations, certain clearing obligations, because it was out of his sight. It is obvious that this legal institution, which had already extended to some companies, is now in over 100 numbers and is multiplying, so I think they are of great importance in the so-called preventive approach to the rule of law. But let me make no objection to this amendment of the law, but let me make a comment. If an amendment to the Law on the Government Debt Management Centre is adopted, the Court will assess it in advance as an increase in the operational risk of management and will therefore receive more frequent attention from the Court of Auditors following the regulation. This does not mean anything in particular, because, indeed, if the first and second lines of defense fulfil their role without this legislation, then it will be obvious that the SAO will later acknowledge this change of position, but in any case, at first hearing, a special rule, the reality of which must indeed show this forward-looking change, which the author expects. Dear House, In addition to these four plus one subject, the Court of Auditors considered it important to represent two other topics in the preparation and negotiation of the bill, which I am now speaking about briefly. If, however, this is supported during the debate, we would like to welcome it separately, but let me draw attention to it separately. On the one hand, the qualitative measurable use of public funds would be supported by a solution where public finance rules explicitly require that heads of budgetary bodies be obliged to draw up and report on indicators, indicators on which performance is measured. This is also suitable for assessing the performance of management, strengthening public confidence towards public authorities, and ultimately freeing up financial resources by measuring effectiveness and efficiency, if the source is available to institutions, financial spending bodies, which would be in line with the problem that I have indicated for years as President of the Court of Auditors, that the condition for spending public money on quality could be improved, and that could be an elemental basis for documentation, which, in many cases, we see in practice, but cannot be justified by documents, since this has no legal background, so I ask you to consider this. The other subject I would like to highlight is the regulation of public bodies. With regard to the approval of the organisational and operational regulations of the budgetary bodies, which we have experienced in several cases during our audits, in many cases pointing to the supervisory body that this deficiency is due to this, we have proposed a solution that would ensure a more practical way of ensuring the proper regulation, the validity of the organizational and operational regulations of the organisations at all times, thereby strengthening a more responsible and accountable use, since the organisational and operational regulations regulate the responsibilities and, if it is not adapted to the current situation, there is an exlex state, and in many cases it has given several months of empty space in this case. I think it would help keep records well. As pointed out above, the Court will continue to monitor legislation, with our proposals based on our audit experience, and with our proposals for the legislators, we would also like to facilitate the creation and enforcement of good quality legislation. That is why I am confident that our proposals, awareness raising and proposals will continue to be considered by the legislators. With all due respect, I'd be honored to have your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. The main speaker of Fidesz, Mr Zsolt Szabó, may be the first to speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests! The legislative amendment package before us contains the elements governing the budget for 2022, which are consistent with it and summarised by the Secretary of State, which in any event underpins its implementation and the reality of the figures in it. It contains a detailed regulation within the framework of a large number of legislations, of which I would like to highlight only a few items in general, which is specifically regulation and regulation concerning the population, municipalities. One of these is the deletion of the budget concept. In the case of municipalities, the mayor or the notary has so far had a mandatory economic task of preparing the budgetary concept, but this is clearly not a mandatory element in accordance with the local tax legislation, but it is proposed that the integrated urban development strategy, which is a medium-term strategy, should in any case be well-founded by the municipalities. This reduces the bureaucratic task of the municipalities and strengthens the budget, which often carries out the same task. Another very important area in the area of health insurance is the simplification of so-called travel-cost compensation. So far, the processes have taken place on paper, bureaucratic and long enough, especially with regard to financial ordering, with more hands, more task providers, relatively difficult. It is a good thing that, with the help of the IT system to be developed in the near future, travel costs will be an accelerated process, together with a follow-up to the nearest healthcare provider for screening and 16 years, over the age of 16, if appropriate. [[15.00]] It is not a two-station doctor or a host doctor, but it is specifically fixed in one place with an IT system, and the evaluation can also be objective. Another very important task is to protect public property more effectively. Here it is specifically the strengthening of the tasks of the supervisory board of publicly owned companies, which I would like to highlight from the legislation. It creates obligations and opportunities for fbs to facilitate the company's internal control system and the establishment of its control system, and thus improves public wealth and the protection of public property by increasing the supervisory board's tasks. It is very important to give priority tasks to local governments, which will strengthen the functions of the Hungarian Treasury that control and enforce economic law. Government agencies have already carried out this kind of task under local government law, but now, according to their decision, not only the SAO, but even the Hungarian Treasury will carry out control tasks before it, thus making these tasks, processes, checks much faster, and the SAO's supervision will be prepared. In any case, I welcome this legislative amendment. It is very important that the framework for development money in the municipalities and the possibilities for activities in this area will be defined. It is possible and possible to purchase Hungarian sovereign debt, and the interest generated from this will clearly strengthen the development funds, and this will also appear in a textual form, in a legislative amendment framework. I also consider it important to regulate the management of claims by the residual recovery company, Zrt. We are creating an opportunity to ensure that the financial return on the assets thus sold and the recovery of claims are as effective in a transparent manner as any other public economic company engaged in such activities. I would also like to highlight the issue of financial settlement of NAV's public service colleagues, which is that transfers are made forints in the country. This is also a rational, understandable way of thinking in order to reduce economic burdens. And I think it is important to have the legislative amendments that are contained in the legislative package, where the dates, introductions and deadlines will be amended. There are three places where such reference can be found, for example, a two-year delay in the introduction of the electronic IT system. I would also like to highlight the government's involvement in the various R &amp; D and innovative tasks, and the range of innovation grants that can be used specifically for new activities within the framework of the National Laboratory programme. We are pleased to welcome any development programmes that these companies, these associations, these groups and researchers can make progress. In conclusion, we would like to ask for our support from this House on the legislative package. They are fully in line with the Hungarian state budget for 2022 and can be taken into account as the country's budget, as well as its sound and supporting content. I ask for the support of this House. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-82	Thank you very much. The group of Jobbik is next, and the lead speaker of Jobbik is Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, she can speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the 2022 central budget has ended in the last hour, and in the debate on its underlying laws, I will not cause great surprises that, of course, our group will not be able to support it, if not even the budget, nor the foundation for it. I would like to highlight two points that I raised my eyes and shot at both the former expo and the leading speaker because they said that the protection of public wealth would be one of the most important points in the next year's foundation. Well, I don't see that that's the most important thing for you. If they are put into law and then filed a bill under cover of the night to practically privateise and privatise the local government's assets and homes, then we cannot talk about the protection of public property. We cannot talk about the protection of public wealth when you have played thousands of billions of dollars in foundations overnight, which you have pushed through the House. And we can't talk about the protection of public property if you're selling national, state or municipal property and other assets that might be needed later on. I suppose you wouldn't be surprised if I brought up Lake Balaton and Balaton Shipping. In the last year, the press was loud because Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. is being reorganized, because the company is losing money, and then it has to be capitalised and put in a lot of money from the state central budget, which you have also done. This is just what happened to Balatoni Hajózási Zrt., which has been local government-owned so far. It is now under the full authority of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, because they left a small slice, but it is not enough to make meaningful decisions by the municipalities. Therefore, we were not surprised when, in connection with the reorganisation plan, the sailing ports wanted to sell their 15-year operating rights, real estate, including camping and the hotels belonging to Bahart's assets by auction, that the municipalities did not assist in doing so, and I would put it very gently, but the Hungarian State pushed through this reorganisation plan with a 75% ownership share. Now we have come to the point that, although they have returned to the rental of the sailing ports, the real estate sale goes well, on the southern shore of Lake Balaton two campsites, just these days the Siófok Hotel Móló sold for 1.5 billion forints, right next to the sailing port. We don't know who the buyer is yet, obviously this will go public. But when we say that the protection of national wealth, I think that all 199 Members have sworn to do so to exercise this position for the benefit of the Hungarian nation, then why, on the basis of a recapitalisation and an unprepared reorganisation plan of all kinds, did the Bahart fortune have to be bitten up, for example? Why did you have to sell these properties? You're used to saying that we need the development of Lake Balaton. I couldn't agree more. I never said I didn't have to. The Hungarian Tourism Agency has given tender funds for the renovation of the beach, for investments that are really important there, on the shore of Lake Balaton, but we have come to the point that on the entire shore of Lake Balaton on these properties, let's say, which used to be camping, there will be apartment houses in a few years. Those who live there know that these processes have begun, and that the national and municipal assets that have lived in the past have migrated into private hands. So when you say that one of the important elements of the 2022 budget is the protection of public wealth, you should at least do so, because according to your actions, it does not seem to you that this is important. The other is the municipalities. For one and a half years or at least two years, we have been saying that local governments do not have enough resources, and then we are talking about how good it is that development will be limited through these laws, which we are talking about now, so that local development can be defined? If there's nothing to it, it's very difficult to develop. We know that there is a program of the Hungarian village, and the programme of modern cities, and the TOP application and all, but only those critics who are involved in these, and the county assemblies, they are pro-government, and the opposition-led settlements are there to prevent them from realising those ideas. Today, there was a suggestion in connection with the previous debate that they do not always want to make those investments. As I recall, my fellow chef told me that Komló is applying for a virtual dinosaur park. [[15.10]] So, as long as the inland road network of the Hungarian municipalities... but if the inland road networks were so fantastic everywhere, then perhaps it could be spent on the outskirts, because all Hungarian people benefit from that renovation, and not just a small elite. So it would be very important for the municipalities to finally open up applications and support investments that affect a wide range, not only a narrow circle, but a wide circle, all Hungarians... because the important thing for us is that when these funds have been taken away from the municipalities and, apparently, in the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, companies are expected to have less economic performance, overall in 2021 and in 2022 we do not know the expectations. In the general debate, I said at the budget that the paper can handle everything, so we will see how this economic growth will develop in 2022. But when one of their most important tax revenues is the business tax, this year only half of them will be able to collect, and this will put them in a vulnerable position, because in opposition-led castles there will be no compensation for those above 25,000 people, but only some projects will be supported. Obviously, we know what settlements will be involved, which will eventually receive compensation. But there's the case of Dunaújváros. My colleague, Gergely Kálló, individually elected representative of the district, spoke in the days because you decided to establish the priority strategic area from which the trade tax will be channeled to the centre and will support the development of local authorities in the area, so that in Dunaújváros the company Dunaferr, the Ironworks, would need a great deal of help. But that is not what is important to you, but to make the district of an opposition-led settlement, an elected individual MP, impossible. You are terrified that in the spring of 2022 the Hungarian people will decide that you have had enough. This, I think, is a real danger from all the hassles you're making here in lawmaking. I think my fellow Member, László Böröcz, should tie him up on Wednesday, I think that with my fellow opposition Members, we are going to tear this housing lease law apart completely. Only one point is not well founded, one point does not serve what we are talking about, the foundation law of Hungary in 2022. Then look at me in parallel and compare what laws are being tabled before this House. Let's have some synergy, some harmony. But it's obvious that the government doesn't even know which pockets to rush and how to sign and submit. So it's quite amazing what you're doing here in the name of lawmaking a year before the election! 'Cause it looks like we're in a hurry, crazy rush, saving assets. So when you say that the protection of public wealth is important, we agree, but not in the way you think. The need to support the municipalities is agreed, but not in the way you think. That is our opinion on this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-21-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP is next, and this is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! I agree with Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, who said that the possibility of a change of government is dangerous, she called it a threat. I totally agree with you. The congresswoman explained that there was a difference between actions and words, and then said that she supported all developments on the shore of Lake Balaton. Congresswoman! You have a huge difference between your actions and your words, because you say in every speech how much you support every development on the shore of Lake Balaton, then you never contribute to it, you don't vote, you don't help, you just interfere. So you're saying the fact that a broken camp is renewed is bad for the Lake Balaton? Is the renewal of a hotel on a parlagland, which has been empty for decades, bad for the Lake Balaton? Would that be bad all over Lake Balaton? I'm not just taking examples from your constituency, I'm taking examples from the entire Balaton. Your world is not the only one, Madam Honourable. I think that if good developments are made, and they happen, it's good for the people who live there, and it's good for the visitors. You are constantly attacking developments, and you haven't answered my question for a long time why you didn't make a sound when you're friends with Siótour, Zalatourt and Balatontourist Zrt. at a much lower price! It was sold, stolen. Only Siótour had a half a million square feet of Balaton land, and then Ferenc Gyurcsány took a nice vacation home that he cut out of the government resort. His current allies, whose logo will be on your poster, spread all over Lake Balaton. At that time, you did not think it necessary to go on a hunger strike, that you should speak out, that you should start a petition, that you should make noise. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right!]] And now he's conspiring with those who spread the shore of Lake Balaton and let it run down that they haven't been leaving camping, hotels, parks, youth resorts, in the GDR style for 30 years, on the same level as it was then. You didn't do anything then, you didn't say anything, and now you're in favour of the same policy coming back to the country, which is represented here by one of the privatization heroes, Congressman Varju. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So, if we are talking about actions and words, then, Madam Congresswoman, let us also see in action that you stand up for the shore of Lake Balaton, as you tell your dear coalition partners and allies why, by the way, the Balaton policy they have done was harmful. I think about the current bill, because in the budget we have debated a lot over the last three days about priorities, why we want to spend more on families, home creation, defence, education, health care, and you have told us why we shouldn't spend so much money on them, and why we have to throw this budget in the trash, as we heard yesterday. The current bill, which amends 19 laws, also includes two-thirds provisions on the maintenance change of the Upper Szabolcs Hospital, and here we can hear from Congressman Varju another chapter of yesterday's anti-church outbursts, which was started yesterday by his candidate for Prime Minister, where he constantly attacked the social responsibility of the churches, the subsidies to the churches, the church renovations. We know this anti-church pace, and I just want to bring back the state church office, Congressman Varju. But what is important and I would like to point out is that the Secretary of State has spoken in detail about all the points in the bill, and I would like to thank the State Audit Office for its proposals, which have previously been incorporated into the bill, such as simplification in the area of municipalities, clarification of powers, publication and vouchering. We know very well that such a chain of responsibilities works well, then an office works well, if we know exactly who is responsible, if we know exactly who is responsible, and what tasks and powers are exercised by the officials or elected representatives there. However, I do not understand from the words of the congresswoman that she blames the voters for the fact that there are pro-government majorityes in county assemblies, who, by the way, have decided or will decide on county developments in the near future. Congresswoman! You didn't bother to make a list in every county, to be more precise, as a small couple, so you couldn't make a list. Then you do not blame the voters for choosing the right people, the pro-government presidents and representatives, to lead the county assemblies. I would like to talk a little bit about the programme of national laboratories, in which, by amending the law on scientific research, development, innovation, its operation and financing will now be included in the central budget, and will now provide a legal basis for its representation in the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund in order to achieve the policy objectives. In addition, the proposal complements the scope of support for national laboratories under the base, with the support of the Szeged laser research centre, creating consistency under the 2022 Budget Bill 62. National Research, Development and Innovation Fund (NRF) with the objectives of the appropriation included in the title "National laboratories" to be recruited within the chapter. The amendment complements the objectives of support to the core parts of the national laboratories of the NRDI Fund with support for subscription fees for printed and electronic books, journals and literature databases. It is also worth highlighting the 1997 LXXXIII on compulsory health insurance benefits. the amendment of the Act, which includes significant facilitations and simplifications in relation to the travel cost compensation scheme. On the basis of the proposal, by introducing a new IT system financed from EU funds, the insured person would not have to ask the referee to issue any form in advance for reimbursement of travel expenses, but the institution of the place of appearance records this in an IT system that the patient requests travel support. Accordingly, it is also necessary to clarify the route on which this aid is to be granted. [[15.20]] I think that this will make life easier for patients visiting different health institutions, because we will save them from filling out a lot of paperwork, administration and line-up by putting them in a single, almost automatic IT system to account for travel costs and the support will somehow be allocated. I think that it is worth supporting a bill that is more transparent, more cost-effective, including opportunities for public companies to expand their control systems as a unit in line with the budget. Although we are discussing it separately now, I think that this bill should also be seen in unity with the budget, that it achieves the goals that we have set ourselves, that it reflects the value system that we consider important: simplification, bureaucracy reduction, transparency, support for families and Hungarian businesses, and that, if our answer is that, yes, after a thorough examination of the law, we will find that yes, then there will be nothing left but to indicate that the KDNP fraction will also support this, and I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-86	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I always admire the comments of Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]] 'Cause really, like the KDNP representative, the bigoted faith, how do I put it? It's respectable, so really, for once, I'd like to know if there's anything about the Fidesz government that you don't think is wonderful. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] 'Cause I've never heard you say that, and maybe someday I'll see that there's something wrong or something, some self-critic. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tell me something good about him. Tell me something good about the government.]] He's practicing, because I see that whatever the subject, whatever case it is, you know the correct and accurate answer to everything, everyone else is stupid, no one understands what you're saying, and no one else can be right. I just used to say it so that the KDNPs would understand that when there is a Fidesz government, there is a heaven in Hungary, and when there is another government, then there is hell, and so there is no need to explain this topic further. However, I would say that just before I raise doubts that we cannot support this bill, which is not surprising after the budget debate. Honourable Congressman, Don't say things like we're talking about the budget because we don't want you spending so much money on health and education and social issues and development. The opposite is true, but you probably didn't listen carefully to the comments of my fellow opposition Members, and the essence of each comment was how to improve these public services, how to spend more money on it, and how to steal less from this budget. So that was roughly the opinion of the opposition representatives, in case this was not understood after a week. I wouldn't be so proud of this bill itself, because it's pretty short. There were times when hundreds of pages of such foundational bill came before the House. Now, I think the social funeral will be postponed for another year, which is a significant change. I think it would be worth saying, for example, a specific point now, to withdraw this provision, because it may be that this,, bury it, bury yourself, bury yourself with a very humane, Christian approach, perhaps, when it was invented, it was an amazing bullshit, and you also realized that, so you push it year after year; I think it would be time now to admit it and withdraw it. But in addition, you have not been able to make a very substantial change or a legislative basis, which is usually typical in such cases, in connection with a grounding law. How can I say that? I take it as a kind of confession that the President of the State Audit Office has come and explained one to Parliament here, because we have a rather poor experience with the work of the State Audit Office. There is always a problem with the management of opposition-led municipalities, districts, opposition parties, Fidesz never in any way, Fidesz, Fidesz municipalities never in any way, or, if there is, in a letter to the mayor of District V about the need to treat property in a slightly less obscene way; instead of initiating a procedure, let's say, the head of the government office is calling him to do so in a polite letter, he could have sent a text to him, or he could have called him, and then there wouldn't even be a waste of paper for this, because, you know, trees are being cut out for this. So in Hungarian, we see that when the State Audit Office receives newer and more licenses, the opposition representatives always have a bit of a bell ringing in their minds that it may not be the case again that they want to smear or squeeze even more opposition-led self-governments. This is probably what the President felt, too, if he came into the House so on Friday afternoon and described why this new procedure is needed, which is being introduced on the basis of this or this law. We have rather doubts and fears about this. As my fellow Member Pototacsány said, she said that the protection of public wealth is important for all of us, and I would like to clarify the Member: not for all of us, because not for the Fidesz people, so I would rather say that they have a public wealth strategy, and apparently, in the year before the elections, this intention of the Members is always a little heated. Congressman Nacsa said that the Balaton had been scattered. Well, I don't know how to put it now that everything is actually being taken by Lőrinc Mészáros, it's not actually being carried apart, because a man is taking it all away, and we'll see how much improvement it's going to be for Balaton that the nation's gas mechanic, who's smarter than Zuckerberg, is actually... Besides, we'll wish him a happy wedding from here; let's hope we don't pay for it, or at least we'll probably pay for it, because he had his wedding ring or what ring? He was probably able to buy his engagement ring with public money. But the point is, I see these people... [[Intercoms.]] I'll tell you, Congressman. So a man who got rich from being a friend of Viktor Orbán, and not by installing gas in many houses, but by stealing European Union funds, privatized everything he could, well, whatever the man buys if he buys a Coke, he buys it with our money, with the taxpayers' money, so I can simplify this question for you. So in Hungarian: being the richest man in the country in a year or two as a gas mechanic in Felcsút is not a typical career trip in Hungary or in the world, so either you have to give him an economic university cathedral because he has the management skills for which he receives the Nobel Prize for Economics, or he simply used his political connections, and he treats the Prime Minister's fortune as an oligarch and a stroma. So in Hungarian: we can say for this bill that we do not support it. There is no real truth in this law, in our view, and it is also clear that you are really interested in nothing more than how to save a lot of money, wealth, public wealth in some form, preferably by two-thirds of the laws, or in an irreversible way, between your own oligarchs. Then you mentioned only one sentence, Mr Nacsa, which was not bound by the law, that, therefore, opposition representatives or parties could not make good candidates here. Well, thank God you can. I would also like to mention Mr István Happy, who has rightly become famous on the one hand for being a whip-puncher, and on the other, for being questioned as a suspect in the waste or theft of public funds. But I could mention the genius of the Carpathians, Lajos Kósa, whom a lady managed to trick into thinking that she could make thousands of billions of forints, surely because she has glasses, or because she loves motorcycles, I don't know, but she was treated as a chosen person. Then it is just as good that one of your Members, who has just spoken in this debate, who is not in prison because he has an immunity right, because all the other people who were then brought to justice have been locked up in prison, I am talking about Miklós Simon - so it is really important for him to get into Parliament from the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, because in the end the proceedings will start against him. But György Simonka is also rightly mentioned as a successful and fantastically effective Fidesz representative. And then we didn't talk about John Lazarus. [[To Dr. Bence Nacsa Lőrinc Rétvári: This is about the foundational law!]] Anyone who thinks everyone's worth what they have, and who couldn't do anything in their life, that's the way it's gonna be, and it's gonna tell us a lot about your social policy. So I just wanted to say this to you so that they could first clean up their own house and then criticize opposition representatives. How they will decide, and for whom it is dangerous and for whom it is possible to have a next election, we leave it to the voters, because I think it is fair. [[15.30]] We will probably not agree on this for a long time, whether your activities are beneficial or not, and which is luckier for the country: if you win or if you lose. Of course, on the basis of the debate, on the basis of our reasoning and our conviction, we believe that it would be worth changing government now in Hungary, and then we would certainly have another type of budget and other types of foundation law in this House, which would bring much more content, and would serve the interests of Hungarian voters and Hungarian families to a much greater extent, because we could really spend these resources on what we need and what Hungarian families deserve. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2021-05-21-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr Antal Paulik, a Slovak ethnic advocate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2021-05-21-89	.akujem za slovo pán predseda. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, vážené panie poslankyne, vážení pani poslanci, vážený pán štátny tajomník! Ako Národnostným výborom poverený hovorca vo svojom príhovore predstavím Vám stanovisko Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/16210 o príprave ústredného rozpočtu Ma.arska na rok 2022. May 17, Náš výbor predložený návrh zákona prerokoval na svojom zasadnutí. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, As the invited rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I present to you the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary the T/16210. on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2022. The bill was discussed by our committee as a committee related to the debate in detail at its meeting on 17 May. The debate was held with regard to the proposed bill as a whole. The importance of the law establishing the current budget cannot be overstated. From the point of view of the committee on nationality, I would like to point out that every year we can meet the provisions on the management of minority self-governments, but also on their choice and task. In this respect, the present draft is considered to be an exception, since the submitted material only includes local minority self-governments on one occasion. I'll let you know a little bit more about that later. For many years, we have been trying to change the rules for the budgetary support of the area of nationality, the use and accounting of the funds in such a way that it can be achieved, monitored, but its implementation does not create an unrealistic burden for national authorities either at local, county or national level. It can be said that until 2013, the central support of local minority self-governments was inoperable. The same can be said in part with regard to national minority self-governments, which they received and operated in previous years, i.e. CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. It was also reflected in the low number of institutions representing cultural autonomy as set out in law and intended to support it and in the persistent difficulties of their operation. In 2012, 428/2012 was born on the conditionalities and accounting arrangements for grants from appropriations for nationality purposes. Regulation No 13, which regulates the management of national minority organisations and minority self-governments. At the same time, support frameworks for national minority programmes have started to grow and thereafter. The responsibility of local minority authorities is financed almost exclusively by the resources provided by the central budget under the differentiated support scheme. The amount of this, as the chairman of the minority committee said in his speech yesterday, has increased since 2014, we can now talk about support that can be felt and can provide real responsibilities. Differential support for local minority self-governments consists of operational and task-based support. In essence, the operational part is normative support, despite the fact that we have not been able to accept it for years with the authorities of the Ministry of Finance, and what else could we call a grant which is paid exclusively to the data of the censuses that take place every ten years, its nationality numbers are bound by the nationality law, i.e. it is not related to the provision of tasks, it is not linked to real activity, and the data on which the allocation is based remain unchanged for ten years. The tasks relating to the use and settlement of the aid shall be carried out by the financial staff of the municipal offices carrying out the management tasks of the municipalities concerned. In view of the fact that the base of national minority communities native to our country is largely provided by small settlements, these financial services are provided by joint agencies whose burden on workers is increasingly making it difficult for them to cooperate with national self-governments. Therefore, in our view, it would also be useful to reduce the administrative burden on municipal authorities if such aid were to be considered as normative aid for public resources directly ensuring the functioning of municipal authorities, and the system of accounting and control would be the same. We are aware that the problem we have just mentioned is going beyond the content of the bill before us this year, which is why our committee will not initiate any amendments to this issue this year. As I mentioned earlier, Imre Ritter, in his speech the day before yesterday, said that since 2013, the budgetary framework for supporting nationalities has been increasing, making it a real opportunity for national authorities to finally fulfil their public tasks under the law on the rights of nationalities. At the same time, the development of national cultural autonomy within a broader framework has also begun, while the complex system of management standards, the necessity of compliance, makes it difficult to use both the grants granted and their accounting. The difficulties of local minority self-governments to this effect have already been mentioned. I have also mentioned the Government Regulation on the conditionality and accounting of support from earlier appropriations for nationality purposes. The rules laid down in it made it so difficult, in particular, to manage and account for national minority self-governments, that, following the parliamentary elections in 2014, one of the first initiatives of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities was the repeal of the regulation. Following long negotiations, this finally took place, and in the 2017 budget, the specific rules on national minority aid are summarised in Annex 9 to the Finance Act and in Annex 10 to this year's budget. However, this solution does not make their situation any easier on the basis of the indications provided by the agencies carrying out the management tasks of national minority authorities. The support of national national minority authorities is located in the chapter management of the current government supervision of the territory, currently the Prime Minister's Office. I also think it is important to mention that the annual support framework for national minority authorities and their institutions is included in the Budget Act. Access to these is subject to the initiative of the national authorities, and on this basis to the issue of the instrument of support for the use of the grants, which appears in the Finance and Management Code of the Prime Minister's Office, which includes rules which are significantly more complex than those laid down in the relevant annex to the Finance Act. According to the logic of chapter management, after use, the municipality must prepare a budget report on the amount of budget support used and the expenditure covered by it in accordance with the rules of the Government Decree implementing the Public Finance Act and the Public Finance Act, which it must submit to the Treasury through the KGR-K11 reporting system. On the basis of the report, a closing statement and a draft decision shall be drawn up, which shall be adopted by the general meeting so as to enter into force no later than the last day of the fifth month following the reference year. The national minority self-government shall submit to the Minister its detailed professional and financial report containing the presentation and decision of the general meeting on closing accounts within 15 days of the adoption of the accounts. In addition to the internal control system of the national minority authorities, the Hungarian Treasury, the State Audit Office and the supporter, the Prime Minister's Office, then control the regularity of the management. I think it is clear from the presentation that this is a rather complex and perhaps not excessive, unnecessarily complicated system, which makes life unduly difficult for national minority self-governments, which are already lacking financial professionals. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 126. According to § 2 (2) of the Act on the Central Budget, the State grants to the national governments, to the extent determined by the Act, support for the performance of the national minority public tasks, for the activities, projects, and for the development of the cultural autonomy of nationalities within and outside the public finances, in the education and cultural self-government of nationalities, in the cultural autonomy of national minorities. The law is 128. The national minority government may use support from the central budget within the meaning of Article 4 of the Treaty only for the purpose of carrying out its national minority public tasks. As the provisions cited show, the fundamental law governing the rights of nationalities does not mention operating aid for national minority self-governments. [[15.40]] In other words, on the basis of the interpretation of this place of legislation, the fulfilment of the national minority public tasks provides the basis for the support of national minority authorities, which is based on the provision of tasks. At the same time, the relevant annex to the Budgetary Act is already clearly classified as operating aid under the title of national authorities and nationality media by making the deadline for use by 31 December of the year. This has also caused problems for all national governments for years. These bodies have now become organisations that maintain a serious network of institutions, which bear responsibility for the institutions that ensure the functioning of nationality public education and cultural life, i.e. ethnic cultural autonomy. I believe that, by the way, most of them do not have any other revenue or resources beyond the annual budget support. The institutional responsibility includes the fact that the organisation, the relevant national and now a number of local minority self-governments, is also a reserve to cover the financing needs arising from unforeseen events. In the case of national minority self-governments, the current legislation does not allow this to be done either from State aid to the national government or from State aid to their institutions. This leaves them with no choice but to borrow if necessary, which is also not necessarily a quick option. This also includes the fact that a significant proportion of the national minority public tasks to be performed by national authorities cannot be linked to a single financial year, and therefore, in our view, it is not appropriate to set the deadline for use and accounting at the end of the year. Since, on the basis of the provisions of the national minority law cited above, we understand that aid to national national minority bodies is a financing element which is essentially comparable to the task-based support of local national minority authorities, it is also appropriate to set the deadline for the application of the aid at the same time as the task-based support to the local minority self-government, i.e. 31 December of the year following the reference year. With the agreed support of national government presidents, our Commission initiated the discussion of this amendment with the Ministry of Finance. Dear House, At the beginning of my speech, I mentioned that the draft law we are discussing mentions local minority self-governments in one place under Article 22 of the Act. § (1). Although the provision contained therein makes it more difficult for local and joint municipal authorities to carry out their management tasks, we do not dispute the need for it, as it is not directly concerned by local minority authorities. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is the T/16210 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2022. It supports the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you for your attention. .akujem Vám za posornosť! [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-21-90	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We have a two-minute speech. Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, asked to speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague Lőrinc Nacsa, Then let's finish where I was at the time. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] when the county authorities, the counties sold the Siotour, the Balatontourist and the Zalatour! Where have I been? that was the question of why I didn't get up and hold a press conference. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why?]] One of my children was born in 2000, and the other was born in 2003, so in 2004 and 2005, when this transaction took place, I was very much at home with my children and went to university, because I was far from politics at the time. So when you ask me why I didn't then, I couldn't do it because that's when I was at home with my children. I don't want you to bring this up again in this House, because it's not about why I didn't perform then and why I have to act now. You've been on the government for 11 years. Why didn't you do something to preserve national wealth? What are you doing? They sell it, privatize it, privatize it. If you didn't like this deal back then, 2004 and 2005, then why are you now doing the sale of Lake Balaton to Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz? Well, that's what you've been doing lately. So don't ask me to count again. I've been fighting for about three years now to keep the Balaton for everyone, so I'm raising my voice because now I have the opportunity. In 2004 and 2005, I was at home with my children. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why are you conspiring with them?]]
u2021-05-21-92	Other speeches will follow. First, the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr László Varju, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-93	[[Without microphone:]] Thank you very much for the floor. We have received a request from our fellow Members to watch... [[Intercoms, among other things: We can't hear it! Nacsa Lőrinc: We can't hear seedy thoughts! Defiance.]] My colleague Lőrinc Nacsa needs it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why we're here!]] Let's solve this problem, and I'll start with the microphone. I would like to reflect on a previous recommendation like this, that we look at it in a uniform structure or in a unit with the budget. If we look at it in one unit, we will actually continue to think about throwing it in the trash, or even in front of the trash can, so that we can grind it down with it, so that they will certainly not cause more damage than they have done before, because a significant part of what is happening here is pointed specifically in this direction. We would very much like to see the state's wealth, which I think they are close to and want to deal with, even though the State Audit Office is raising awareness, taking more steps to make it easier to get rid of it or to obtain it more easily. That goes for the other side, wherever you look at it. But let's start with what Mr. Secretary of State started with on strengthening the municipalities. I am joining those Members, Mr Attila Mesterházy has also specifically dealt with the fact that we are very distrustful when you approach the municipalities. Over the past few years, you have proven that dealing with local governments is very dangerous on your part, because if you do that, it usually reduces their options, takes money away from them, and puts more checks on their necks that really want to make them vulnerable. Now, if the President of the State Audit Office is pleased, and in this way the coordination of the state institutions is achieved, that, if I have understood correctly what you have described and what you have said, the President of the State Audit Office called it to create harmony in his contribution, and then, in another step, two thoughts away, let me say, he called it the third line of the military defense line, so that you can really decide what you want to do. The way I see it, you're more at war with the municipalities. They will be honoured with their attention to the local governments that exist with the leaders of the opposition, and they will, wherever possible, try to make it impossible, to take away what can be done, and in fact their duties are not only seen in the municipalities, but also in other areas, they will try to centralise and centralize them, because they believe that you can do it the best you can. And we say the opposite, that what you are doing in this way, I add, is not only we, but in a way that is consistent with the Treaty with the European Union, or, in this sense, to draw attention to the obligation to comply with the contract, that this is also contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, and that the steps and measures that you are taking in a package that you are taking against the municipalities are harming in this respect. This agreement, an international agreement previously concluded, and not only in the opinion of the opposition, but even more so in the interests of the people living there, is not what they are doing overall in their war against municipalities, no matter how many lines of military defense do this. Let's put the word "defense" in full quotes, because what they do to local governments can be seen as an attack line, create conditions and frameworks for themselves, and abuse this situation. [[15.50]] What I said about the centralisation side, there is also a question to the Secretary of State, because by assigning a budgetary commissioner to a majority state-owned company with the right to initiate such a thing, the majority state-owned representative has the right to demonstrate rather great uncertainty or mistrust, because there is already a responsible person there, who has already been appointed by you. Compared to this, a new Chancellor-type inspector is sent to his neck that he, I mean, the former leader, will in fact cease to have the authority he was originally appointed for. Returning to the municipalities with a thought: what President Domokos has said is that very much attention is paid to clarifying the conditions of regulation, compliance and liability. So it seems that they are very attentive to the municipalities. Let's look at what is in the draft law, as we heard in the expozee, but let's also look at what Mr. Secretary didn't think was important, and we don't think it's right, and I could even say that it's more than risky. This is what remains of use Zrt. is about what really happens to the management of government assets for the discharge. I am also saying this as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets because our committee has acted in a way that, in the annual accounts of the Minister responsible for this area, the House has actually refused or did not create the conditions for discussing the report on asset management at the same time. The pro-state government representatives refused to do so, and they did not vote for it, they did not support it, they did not dare to let it go to the Committee on Budgets. I find that very strange. It is true that the secretary spoke of residual recovery. Let us continue to have our reservations on this, as I find it undefined exactly what comes around this circle, what is judged to be such, and if this is left to you, then we have left the cabbage to the goat, and in this sense it is safe to watch how it is squandered. What I mean by calm listening is that the authorities should pay more attention to this. In this way, I believe that the proposed scheme clearly aims, supports and helps to speed up the transfer of public property to the private sector. This may be necessary for their next semester's work, and this needs to be accelerated. Well, that's the express suitcase effect: pack up, take what you can, and then what happens happens. That's why we don't support it. The Secretary of State did not draw attention to it, but there are successful lobbyists here who feel that the Upper Szabolcsi Hospital in Kisvárda should be privately owned. We do not understand or consider the justification of this to be necessary, which is why I do not want or can not support you. I consider the following point, which you could safely leave from this story, the case of building homes in the rust zone, because it has many doubts. I understand the intention itself, the suggestion. I see that you are going towards some sort of solution, but those actors who are classically specialised in large-scale housing constructions and expect your help and support, and in return you expect the political support that you are ordering them in this way, I would say you would expect this conditional attitude to appear here in this form. Here we consider both the former and the current measures to be unconstitutional, and, as I have mentioned in other respects, here they are taking actions which are particularly detrimental to the subsidiarity principle of the European Union and to the local government. The government wants to give as little chance as possible for cities to start major developments, so that they can interfere, so they want to, and if the decision is taken, they will eliminate them in a significant part. Therefore, on the basis of what has been said, this draft law, which is about the foundation of the 2022 central budget, is considered unfounded and not supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-21-94	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In any case, today's debate is also related to yesterday, as we are discussing the basis of the budget. I already have problems with the word itself, how well your ideas, your comments and everything else about the budget have been, and have been, yesterday, as well as today. When Lőrinc Nacsa attacks a lady here in Parliament, why she didn't do anything about Siótour during a certain period, and doesn't bother to look into it, this shows very well, this woman was very well at home during that period, and Anita Potocsány Kőrösi raised her children when she didn't look into such information, it shows how well you are professionally prepared, spoken to, and doing their job. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] You can talk to him, Congressman Nacha. You can talk to him. He's always grumbling under his nose. Press a button, tell us your opinion, we will listen to what you will base it on, and I would expect you to apologize to a lady, our colleague, Anita Potocsány Kőrösi. During yesterday, there was a speech from Gabriella Selmeczi, who told us how long the government was helping pensioners, what the government was doing for pensioners, with various percentages for long minutes. By the way, Gabriella Selmeczi did this on the day it was made public that you raised pensions by an average of HUF 890 per month from January to May. 890 forints! This means that you have managed to honor the pensioners by almost 30 forints a day. And here you are saying a success propaganda about your attitude towards pensioners. That's about how much they respect pensioners, with this 30 forints a day. We also said that the budget should always adapt to and take into account the current situation, realities, real life. But what we see is that you are not living in real life at all, you are in an ivory tower, you do not see the difficult situation of Hungarian families as a result of the epidemic, how difficult it is for hundreds of thousands of families, where they have lost their jobs, where they live day by day, and in many places living day by day is difficult. But you don't apply budget or foundation laws to this. There has also been a lot of talk about the municipalities. They told me what the municipalities were supposed to do, but in my opinion, you don't talk to the municipalities. You have no idea how to change the tasks and powers of the local authorities, how difficult they are to put them in, and how badly the country is going to be destroyed, how badly certain areas are going to be destroyed. However, we are talking to our local government representatives, who are doing very serious work in different municipalities, we are listening to their opinions, we are listening to their proposals and we are even presenting the proposals they are proposing to us. Just to give you one or two examples: I don't know how much you know that IX. What kind of problems are there in the district? You know, the IX. district Ferencváros. You should not only be concerned with hearing the name Ferencváros about how the truly world-famous football team can be absorbed and how Gábor Kubatov can be his president and bathe in great popularity, but, you know, there is also a district called Ferencváros, which is true that he is opposition-led, although you have lost the municipal elections there, but it would be good to have money in Ferencváros, for example, for the continuation of the urban rehabilitation program. [[16.00]] After all, one of the outstanding values of Budapest's interior is the unique urban structure character and construction image [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] , Inner and Central Ferencváros is part of one of the most important historical and Art Nouveau buildings in the world. Mr. Secretary, listen, maybe you'll learn something from this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'm listening!]] Perhaps these lines will inspire you, and perhaps even vote for the amendment that Jobbik has tabled in favour of Ferencváros, which you of course could take into account and help to preserve the character of the city. The most effective solution would be to use a complex urban rehabilitation, where economic, social, environmental, infrastructure and urban architecture aspects are dealt with in a comprehensive and coordinated manner. As a continuation of the rehabilitation program, the preservation of the original urban fabric, the architectural and social revitalization of the blocks will be given a key role. This balancing urban rehabilitation model is simultaneously managed by municipal, investment and housing-owner market ideas and considerations. Mr State Secretary, I think this would be absolutely eligible, because Ferencváros may also be important to you, even though, as I said, you have lost the municipal elections. But let me give you another example, this might surprise you even more. In Terézváros, Dr. Zsuzsanna Beleznay is a better deputy mayor, who works as you have never worked before, is constantly out among the people, tries to do for the people, and keeps in constant contact with them, to the great and great satisfaction of the citizens of Terézváros, as you know, in each district, in everyday life there are no Fidesz and MSZPs and better people, every decision you make affects the Fidesz voter as well as the better voter. Therefore, Zsuzsanna Beleznay is recognized by the Fidesz voters, because she works for them. He asked me to draw your attention to the problems your regulations have caused in Teresa City and what they could do to help. For example, I don't know how much you know that you want one of our most important world heritage sites, Andrássy Road, to finally be XXI. It could turn into a century. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Stay 19th. It's from the century! Nacsa Lőrinc: Better the XIX. It's from the century!]] The country's avenue is currently... Secretary of State, go outside and take a look. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You don't like that either?]] That this avenue now resembles a dirty highway thanks to you. Not as the gem of Budapest, since neither the metropolitan or the Terézváros municipality can resolve this issue on its own initiative. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Because the deputy mayor is better.]] Thanks to you, he can't, you took those revenues from the municipalities. And from a tourist, air quality and commercial point of view, it is time for state intervention so that Andrássy Road can be a percussion force for tourism in Budapest, breathed from smog and tar. It's just that it might not be important to you. As it may be, it is not important to you either, and I also recommend to Lőrinc Nacsa that the restoration of the rust zone behind the Western Railway Station still awaits you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote for it! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You attack!]] Wouldn't it be better if you voted to build an eco-park? They now have the opportunity to do so, as I have tabled in an amending proposal [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You attack!]] to support the greatest challenge for the downtown districts of Budapest is the lack of parking spaces and dirty air. This was further damaged by the free parking system, thanks to Fidesz. You brought this, though you're trying, and I see you're not admitting your mistake right now. Our goal is to build a well-known parking garage in Western Europe that could provide over a thousand parking spaces. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Will you bring the cars downtown?]] On several levels, it can give thousands of square meters of green surface and park to Hungary's most densely built area. They can change this, but these proposals need to be supported. But I'll tell you, Mr. Secretary, something you might be interested in. You know, in many respects, the downtown of Budapest is also the citadel of small-value anti-money crime. Sándor Pintér said that he would clean up in two weeks, unfortunately this order is still not in place. So I think they could also give money to develop downtown police headquarters. This was also requested by Dr. Zsuzsanna Beleznay, and this amendment was tabled. So they can also do their job in better circumstances every day. Then I'll tell you something else, okay, for you, which might surprise you. You know, in the inner districts of Budapest, most condos are also important monuments in addition to residential function. So if you don't watch it from the car, walk away sometime, say, the VI. Circuit, look at it, otherwise there are beautiful monuments as well. The only problem is that the condition of these things is practically life-threatening in many respects, so it may even be life-threatening for you, not only for the residents, but also for those on the sidewalk, because of the falling plaster fragments. We believe and believe in the VI. district council, too, so that we don't wait until tragedy happens. Yes, we know that most of these are private property, but the residential communities, although you claim that there are huge savings for families here, have no savings, no resources to self-organize the structure of the buildings. State intervention and assistance would be essential both for the protection of monuments, cityscapes, tourism and security. They can do this now when they press a button, as they can vote for this amending proposal, which would give us money from the state budget, so that we can make improvements that really make people's lives better. I'll tell you something else. If we are in the middle of an epidemic and you are talking about the health situation, and you do not acknowledge the difficult health situation that you are in, the state of health, you are in, you can immediately show that you are willing to help, for example, the reconstruction of the Péterfy Hospital and the National Institute of Traumatology. This hospital was built in 1930, and since then it has been practically unrefurbished, it has to be seen to believe what it's like. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is not a budget!]] So you should go and see what it's like, and you might want to take a different approach to this situation. The paint's mulching, the wires are hanging from the walls, the corridors are dirty and they're full of scrapped furniture. The sick people lie on the 50-year-old rusty iron beds; the patients themselves must bring in their own toilet paper, towels, toiletries, towels, towels, and cutlery. I believe that the budgetary resources provided for this would be in a much better place if you voted in favour of this than anywhere else where, say, Lőrinc Mészáros or István Tiborcz appears. And speaking of health, fellow Members, I do not know how much you know of the serious health-destructive situation that exists at the moment thanks to the plumbing of downtown Budapest. If you look at the map that sums up the lead content of Budapest's drinking water, you can see that the entire downtown is in the red zone, i.e. drinking water contains too much lead, the main cause of which is to be found in bad and worn-out pipelines. This means a huge investment that can only be solved by the districts and municipalities with state aid. I think we cannot stand by and watch one of our basic needs, drinking water, poison tens of thousands of people in Budapest. You could also do something about it, because you have never dealt with it, you never care about how to make life better for the people of Budapest. I think you can do this now, because if you can start this investment, all you have to do is provide the budget with a proper source of water that is not poisoned with lead to drink by the downtown population. They might say, "Wow, these are very big expenses, because I'm sure they say that, because you're constantly thinking, and you're never gonna get the money for what you need, but you're never gonna get the money for anything else. They are right, because they would not be small investments, they would consume a small amount of money, but it depends on how we look at it, because if you look at it from the point of view of the Hungarian family's income, it is very big money. [[16.10]] However, if we look at it from a different perspective, let's say from the point of view that the football team of a small village... if we have already started with Ferencváros, we will end up with another football team: how much money you spent on the Felcsút fociacadémia, how much public money you have spent in recent years, then these renovations and these requests that I have just listed here are minor compared to the fact that last year only HUF 7.5 billion of public money was spent on the Felcsút fociacadémia, i.e. HUF 21 million of public money per day on the Felcsút fociacadémia. So far, since you've been on the government, 80 billion wandering soccer up to 80 billion! So that would come out pretty good, which I've just listed, with this amount, and the equity of this high road football team is currently 33 billion forints. Gentlemen, decide what's important to you: high road football or not to have lead-poisoned water, to serve everyone's satisfaction again in the old glory of Andrássy Road, or to not fall on people's heads to protect plaster and monument buildings. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is for you to decide, and with your vote, you will decide. Thank you for listening.
u2021-05-21-96	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa, two minutes, please.
u2021-05-21-97	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I just need you to tell me now that the Gyurcsánys have spread the Balaton. It's enough now, just because György Szilágyi is hitting one of the top ten places on the Gyurcsány list without dare to say that the Gyurcsánys did steal the Balaton. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He dares not speak against Gyurcsány.]] If you know the story, you can tell me. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Mr Szilágyi spoke with a loud voice about the development of rust zones, while he did not vote for the law that aimed at the exploitation of rust zones and which envisaged the development of rust zones. You said at the time, in the debate on the bill that you didn't want to develop rust zones, because you said no with your party. If you are already a public security and criminal offence, honourable Member, you are a great expert in this area: at the time of the Gyurcsány-éra, there were more than 420 thousand registered crimes a year. According to recent statistics, it's now around 190,000 a year. The number of crimes in Hungary has decreased by less than half because we thank the police, the soldiers, the law enforcement agencies and the detectives for their work. Thanks to them, the number of registered crimes in Hungary is much less today. And who's gonna vote for what? Because you have just told a left-wing district town manager, a left-wing deputy mayor, your proposals for amendment, you have brought it to Parliament and you have started to list it. But, Congressman, what do you vote for in the budget? So you're saying no to young people's freedom? [[Anita Kotocsány Kőrösi: We already voted for it!]] Are you then the most generous family support system in the history of Hungary? So you're saying no to the development of the defense? [[Zoltán Balczó: When did Fidesz say yes in opposition? Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Because you will vote on these, honourable Member, which you will vote on when the budget is adopted. You missed the budget debate, so you're bringing here now, in the law on the basis of the budget, the budget amendments you submitted. The budgetary debate is over, but the vote will show, honourable Member, that you are in favour of Hungarian families or businesses, because if you do not vote for the budget, you are not standing there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-21-98	Please, honourable Members, I know you've spent a lot of time together this week, and it's not easy for you; believe me, neither. I have so much advantage that I can see who everyone is and you're not, so my situation is more difficult. But I'm going to share it with you now, and with respect, I'm going to ask you to comment on the bill on the foundation of the central budget. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] We all leave the qualification of each other's activities to the electorate. This will allow Congressman György Szilágyi to follow. He asked for an opportunity in two minutes. Here you go. And I'll hand over the chairmanship to Vice President Brenner. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-05-21-99	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I'll be brief, I just don't know what to say at all, because in this House, after ten million, it seems strange, although I know that you can say something other than the opposition, so you can use words in this House for which there is no punishment, and for us and for everything. So I speak with fear, but I must say that Lőrinc Nacsa simply lied in his previous speech. So you, Congressman, are lying! I'll tell you what. For example, he says that we have not voted for the'sai-free'. We voted for it, Congressman. Look at it, and I'll tell you something else about young people: it was our idea. We were the first to introduce young people to be freed, and we voted for it. So what did you just say? That we didn't vote? What did you do? He lied. He said that Mr Szilágyi missed the budget debate. What did you do with that sentence at the moment? You lied, because yesterday in the budget debate, I suggest you look back on my 17-minute speech in case you learn from it anyway. So what did you do in yesterday's budget debate? He wasn't telling the truth! He lied! Then one more thing, if you've already told me about the police... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] That's right, Congressman Nacsa, if you want to thank the police for this job, then you have nothing to do but vote in favour of the amendment that we have tabled so that the police can do their job in the city, in the right conditions, and give them the money to renew the police stations. Here's the amendment, so you can join him if you want. I look forward to asking you one thing, Congressman: do not lie in the walls of this House. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-21-100	Thank you. Our next speaker is Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-101	Mr President, thank you for the floor. President Hiller's suggestion was indeed justified, but it is often the case that, if I don't consider this concept, I am sorry, Congressman Nacsa, which you now apply. I've never seen that before. Think about how fair that is, next. I'll give you an example. On a particular budget line, the opposition, Jobbik, believes that this is very important and would like to devote more resources to this. He's putting in a motion for an amendment. We're saying that we agree with him. You reject the amendment and then, in view of the fact that we say no in the final vote, you will go back to everything in detail and say that because you do not support it, you are opposed to it. I ask you: when you or your party were in opposition, were left-wing governments, in addition to the many negative proposals, many that could be considered positive, which could be said to be yes, is this eligible? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Have you voted in favour of our positives?]] Was there? And if there was, then how did you vote on the budget in the final vote? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Women didn't vote for 40, nor did Jobbik.]] So I think you understand the injustice of this, that in a case in which the opposition or Jobbik want even stronger resources, you are expressing your support for this, then for fundamental structural reasons, as you have always said no in opposition, and then you are in fact rewinding everything and saying that because you were opposed to it. It's so unfair! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-21-102	Our next speaker is György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The two-minute period is one round.]]
u2021-05-21-103	Excuse me, Mr. President, I don't want to waste any more time. My button's been pressed, and I'm revoking my intention to speak. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-21-104	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see that. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-21-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank President László Domokos for his proposals, who said before the Honourable Parliament that a number of proposals initiated by the State Audit Office are included in the motion before you. The State Audit Office has also confirmed that these proposals make it easier to use public funds in a number of respects, while maintaining the control system. Allow me then to briefly comment on the points on which the bill was tabled. Mr Antal Paulik said that the management of many national aids is more difficult, more complicated than normative aid, and therefore calls for simplification. [[16.20]] I understand your point, but this itself points out that there is still a system of control for the use of public funds, which, yes, makes it necessary to account for the amounts under the grant agreement. It makes it necessary to maintain an additional administration, but I think that it is precisely the goal that perhaps there was agreement here, that the regularity of the use of public funds must be ensured in all circumstances, and that it requires a kind of administration. In this there is a professional debate on how long it can be simplified so that this regularity can be maintained. I think it is important that, in the bill before you, we strengthen the responsibility of the individuals in the public registering bodies, on the civil and criminal side. With regard to Mr Spokesman's suggestion that national minority subsidies should not be used in the given year, but should be possible by the end of the following year, I understand the suggestion, and it is appropriate for you and Parliament to consider that, in our view, the use of budget expenditure for a given year will strengthen the predictability and enforceability of the annual budget law. I know that many programmes are for several years, which is why I think that the adoption of the Spring Budget Negotiations and Budget Law is an advantage, since the appropriations entered in the 2022 budget can be concluded after the adoption of the Act, if appropriate at the end of June, and tenders can be published, and contracts can be concluded in advance for one year. So this helps with the planning. However, it is important that the expenditure for that year is achieved in that year, as it is important that we can account for the revenue for that year, since we can only implement the deficit target and debt reduction set by the government and the Parliament if the budget is planned to be implemented. I would also like to thank you, Mr Spokesman, for providing support for the bill on the part of nationalities. Congressman László Varju asked about budgetary supervisors. I would like to clarify that the motion concerns the possibility of sending a budgetary supervisor to companies owned by state-owned majority-owned companies. The secondment of the budgetary supervisor shall not be accompanied by the removal of the managers of that company and the limitation of its powers. It is a question of an additional financial control, as is the case law in many countries of Europe, for a given period of time or for the implementation of a given project. I repeat, this is not a union in Hungarian legislation, because there is a system of legal institutions in Europe; for example, France has an extensive institution for the appointment of a budgetary supervisor for the implementation of specific programmes for a certain period of time at each institution. I believe that the proposal that the government has made will further expand this system and will strengthen the effectiveness of the use of public funds and the use of public funds by public companies in all aspects, at least by strengthening efficiency. Congressman, he's been asked by the rest of the utility company. He expressed concern about whether or not this would lead to a reduction in the state's assets. I would like to reassure the Honourable Parliament that two property laws provide for the scope of state property, the method of exploitation of state property. There's a law on national assets and a law on state property. Strategic assets cannot be sold or sold in the absence of a parliamentary decision. At the same time, there are assets that are not necessary for the operation of the State, nor is it appropriate for them to remain State-owned. Let me give you a simple example: a private individual leaves his entire property and movable property to the state, then this movable property may contain the furniture, clothes, whatever it is. Obviously, they should not be left to state ownership. In this regard, the proposal before you contains nothing new; it does not include any enlargement of what kind of assets should not be left to state ownership. It is only about the fact that it is worth separating MNV Zrt., the Hungarian National Asset Manager from the organization that carries out this activity. This activity is already provided by MNV Zrt. within the framework of the government, so an organizational separation is proposed. At the hospital in Kisvárda, Congressman mentioned privateization. I would like to make it clear that there is no privateisation effort contained in the motion. It is about the fact that there are hospitals that are currently in church reserve. Think of Bethesda Hospital, which is reserved for the Reformed Church. The motion is that the hospital in Kisvárd, mentioned by the Member, should be reserved for Greek Catholic Metropolia. We know that in Szabolcs, Hajdúság, there is a very serious social embeddedness of the Greek Catholic Church. On the basis of the consultation with the church, we see the possibility that this maintenance change will take place. Finally, let me say very briefly about the comments which were not made in the proposal before you, but which were raised in the context of the implementation of the budget. One is the expansion or reduction of wealth and public wealth. In addition to the residual exploitation company, claims were made as if a large amount of state assets were being sold. I would like to note that after 2010, the value of state assets and the range of state assets expanded. We can think of utility companies, whether it is a gas company or a waste management company, but whether it is an increase in shares in strategic companies such as MOL Zrt., the Hungarian oil company. Obviously, it was mentioned that part of the state's wealth, the Parliament, had not so long since decided to go to public-use trust funds. I would not call this privatisation, it is a question of the fact that public-service companies have received state assets for their tasks, which can be used exclusively for public tasks. I do not consider it appropriate and I do not want to burden the Honourable Parliament with this question in the debate of the bill establishing the budget for 2022, but I would just like to state that the process approved by the Parliament was not a motion and a parliamentary decision on the activities of organisations carrying out public tasks, not a privatisation. The second issue, which has been raised several times, is the situation of the municipalities, the management of the local government. I repeat that the economic downturn seen in the world of corona virus epidemics, both in the European Union and in Hungary has affected everyone, whether it be businesses, whether it be local governments or governments. The effects of this could not be avoided. I repeat: the economy of the whole European Union has fallen, and we know that the Hungarian economy is less than the EU average. Everyone had to play their part in the defense. The operation of central budgetary bodies, with the exception of health institutions, has been reduced by the government. It has reduced the functioning of all central budgetary bodies. Once again, the transfer of the car tax was mentioned, it was HUF 34.4 billion, which we used last year to protect against the epidemic. The total expenditure of the Anti-CDC Fund was, again, over a thousand billion forints. Now, I would like to say that this participation in the defence is a matter of bleeding out the municipalities, allow me to debate it, and let me recall again the fact that, according to the local authorities' own accounts, at the end of the first quarter of 2021, the total value of the funds in the sovereign debt and commercial bank exceeded HUF 1100 billion. This is the total amount in the accounts of the municipalities or in the investment of sovereign debt. This amount was smaller at the end of 2019. So from this point of view, I am debating the findings, and, yes, the bill before you is in line with budget 2022. [[16.30]] In the 2022 budget, we calculate economic growth above 5 per cent. If this increase is achieved, the revenue from the business tax of local governments will increase substantially, in addition to the increase in the direct financial margin, which can be described by the central budget of 2022, due to the reduction in the amount of the solidarity contribution, or the increase in budgetary support. In the spirit of all of this, I propose to the Honourable Parliament the adoption of the draft budget law of 2022 on the relaunch of the economy and the adoption of a bill drawn up in accordance with it, setting out the budget for 2022 before you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-106	Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the announcement of a protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the granting of State loans to finance the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary until closure. The government referral is T/16209. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-21-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The main point of the bill that has just been tabled is that Hungary's financing contract for the Paks expansion has been improved positively following the successful negotiations of the government. The Paks II project contributes significantly to maintaining Hungary's secure, affordable and climate-friendly electricity supply. 80% of the investment is financed by the Russian-Hungarian international credit agreement already approved by the Parliament. This contract is highly advantageous as it has a very long maturity and our country has the right at any time to pre-empt the amount already recorded at nominal value without any additional fees. Thus, the project will be carried out at all times with the most favourable funding available in a given year. The new agreement does not affect the level of interest, but the repayment of the loan must start in 2031 after the two new power plant blocks have been put into operation. Thus, the repayment of the loan can be made by the power plant. From the EUR 10 billion credit line, we always draw only as much as it covers the costs incurred during that period. The revision of the credit agreement was mainly due to the European Union's prolonged and ultimately positive investigations by Hungary. I would like to inform the House that Hungary has cancelled all invoices so far, and the last prepayment took place on 30 April in the amount of EUR 72 million. As a result, the amendment of the credit agreement may enter into force after the approval of the National Assembly by the fact that Hungary has no outstanding debt to Russia in connection with Paks II. Dear Parliament, In terms of national economy, large-scale Paks investment has significant positive effects both for energy supply and security, for the competitiveness of the domestic economy, for climate and carbon neutrality and for the corporate sector and for public finances. Therefore, I ask that the bill be debated and accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-108	Thank you. Our next speaker is Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I prepared this speech with a little nostalgia, as I was also the pro-government speaker of the original bill on lending in June 2014. Then, in the autumn of the same year, I also took an active part in the parliamentary debate on the development of the Paks nuclear power plant, initiated by the opposition. Seven years later, we now have an amendment to the Interstate Loan Act. The drawdown of the loan was only possible in 2017 due to the lengthy procedures initiated by the European Commission and the delay in the investment in part due to these procedures. As a result of this delay, it became necessary to amend the Agreement in order to ensure that the credit line provided by the Russian Federation is available until the current planned Paks II investment in autumn 2030. Mr Secretary of State presented in detail the benefits of this loan agreement and its conditions. The new negotiations started in 2018, but due to the initial inactivity of the Russian partner it was only possible to enter a meaningful phase in 2019 and 2020. The negotiations were finally concluded in February 2021, and the results can now be read in the bill before us. It should be pointed out that the possibility of free prepayment remains. Thus, according to the actual progress of the project, the agreement provides the resources flexibly, but, in the case of favourable market conditions for public debt financing, the loans already drawn may be replaced by resources providing a more favourable financial condition, i.e. free of charge, without additional costs to be paid to the Russian party. The issue of nuclear energy has been thoroughly explored from the right and left in the debate already mentioned in 2014. A new development since the International Atomic Energy Agency stated in October 2020, I quote: "The achievement of the 2 degrees Celsius threshold set in the Paris Climate Convention is almost impossible without nuclear power, if not directly impossible. In fact, in April now, the European Commission's scientific body, against the previous expert resolution, found that nuclear energy is still a sustainable technology, so nuclear energy must also play an important role in the green energy mix. However, the fact of meeting the growing energy demand has not changed at all. The extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with the described funding conditions will increase security of supply, reduce gas dependence, add, reduce Russian gas dependence and allow energy prices to be kept in check, thereby increasing Hungary's competitiveness. It is also important to note that, on the one hand, the nuclear power plant remains permanently state-owned and, on the other hand, it is the largest investment in infrastructure since the change of regime, resulting in the creation of thousands of jobs. The construction will be largely carried out by Hungarian companies, the financing is not carried out by companies, but by the interstate loan in question. It is important for the public to know that the cost of credit is not included in the price of electricity. The new agreement does not affect the level of interest, however, the repayment of the loan should only start in 2031 after the two new power plant blocks have been put into operation, i.e. the power plant can already generate the coverage. This loan is considered by the Hungarian government as a safety net, as the EUR 10 billion credit line is always called down only as much as is necessary to cover the costs incurred during that period. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The title of the opposition debate day organized around the Paks development in 2014 was:. What does the Paks agreement deprive Hungary of? I also said that I am convinced that Hungary's population would suffer a shortage if the government did not look at the growing energy demand. For the long-term competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, it is essential that Hungarian citizens and businesses have access to cheap electricity from predictable, clean, domestic sources that are now considered sustainable by the EU. [[16.40]] This is why Hungary has set itself the goal of considering nuclear energy as one of the important pillars of the long-term energy mix, as this decision also helps to achieve climate goals. The new Paks Nuclear Power Plant Blocks comply with Hungarian and EU standards and regulations. The bill-modifying proposal on interstate borrowing to finance the implementation is supported by the Fidesz parliamentary group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-110	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Zoltán Balczó, who presents the opinion of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-111	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I regard the fact that this bill is now being negotiated not as a positive event, but as a regrettable event, because Paks II is very late. Project 3. In January 2014, when the government announced Paks II. The plan was then that the first block would generate electricity by 2023, and the agreement was that the repayment would have to start in 2026, which would probably have meant the entry into service of both blocks. In comparison, there has been a serious delay, in which, of course, the fact that the European Commission has examined the Paks expansion in a very large number of its elements and in detail, rather than the word "enlargement" I have to say that there is a capacity replacement, and this is beneficial, of course, because in many respects it has carried out thorough investigations that have required many people to be convinced that this will be a useful, effective project, especially given that it has established a 7.5 per cent overall life-cycle profit, so it would not have been allowed to make a loss-making project. However, what resulted from the further delay? Here we had to wait for Rosatom, the contractor, because he had already had the building experience of this type of power plant blocks, but not in Russia and Belarus in line with EU standards. However, I note in parentheses that for similar power plants, the plans could be delivered to Finland on time. So the fact that this loan contract, the financing, and from 21 to 16 years of maturity, has to be transformed is due to this delay. The final deadline for starting repayment on 15 March 2031 is still acceptable if it is met, because the Paks I blocks are stopped between 2032 and 2037, so the deadline of 31 means that they can replace the blocks beyond their lifetime. At the same time, the expert materials I received do not show any change in interest repayment, and in itself, from 21 to 16 years means that it is more burdensome for a given year, and there has also been a transformation between the years, which means that this has not turned out to be a good thing for us. Let me add, however, that the interest rate of 4.5 per cent or more is quite high when there was a government bond issue of 1.66 per cent for 30 years. Indeed, there can be some hope in this, that if prepayment is successful, where appropriate, on more favourable terms on the market than this excessively high interest rate. Let me just say that Jobbik voted in favour of this Paks project in February 2014 and, among the opposition's parties, the MSZP chose that two thirds of its representatives did not take part in the vote. I must say, as a Member of the European Parliament in December 2009, when I was still in the former Government of the MSZP, I had the opportunity to meet the delegation of Parliament in Strasbourg, led by the MSZP Chairman of the Economic Commission, and János Süli was a technical director. There was a meaningful, important meeting with Hungarian representatives, where Edit Herczog, who was a lobbyist for nuclear power plant investments, contributed very positively to this project. That is why I felt a bit of an unexpected turn of events that, after that, they felt that this was not necessary from another position, while fundamental changes in why the investment in Paks was needed were not. At the same time, I must add that in June 2015, when there was a separate bill on funding, Jobbik had it, and we stayed there. In this case, the faction will probably vote in favour now. Let me tell you so much more if, in addition to the current proposal for funding, the debate extends to a detailed discussion, with which, of course, there is a link that Paks II will be able to make. I will participate in the debate. To avoid this now, I would just like to make the point on this point, the energy policy position of Jobbik. We are committed to climate protection and the use of renewable energy. At the same time, we are also aware that the security of electricity supply is a matter of national strategy and that the low level of consumer prices is in the public and economic interest. The only way to enforce these aspects is if the nuclear capacity of Paks I plant at the end of its lifetime is at Paks II. We maintain it by building it. Let us add the very important fact that nuclear energy is a clean energy for CO2 emissions and climate protection, and I see no other opportunity to complete the zero-emission salvo by 2050. So Jobbik still considers it important to maintain nuclear capacity and has certain reservations about funding. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-21-112	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-113	Dear Parliament, I went through the circle of lead speakers, and I thought that there would be basically no big debate here, because the two parties who were most opposed to this investment, the LMP and the Dialogue, they didn't even set up a lead speaker in this debate, they didn't think it was important to express their opinion. From the others, DK, MSZP, Jobbik we can also find statements and votes supporting the investment in Paks and supporting nuclear energy, as Mr Balczó said. At a residential forum a few years ago Ferenc Gyurcsány said that he thought nuclear energy was the best choice. So I don't expect a huge debate on this subject. As the Secretary of State has said, here it is essentially all the possibility of early repayment, when the Ministry of Finance and the bodies responsible for this are constantly monitoring the international banking system, credit opportunities, financing opportunities, so they can find the best option every year, because there is a free prepayment option here at the loan. [[16.50]] So we see that this will be the task of the Ministry of Finance to find every year the best financing option for that year, and it will also be more favourable to the credit facility in such a way that the interest burden on the repayment of capital will be reduced by EUR 400 million under the new agreement. And what is most important change, I think, is that the power plant itself is able to generate capital repayments, because I think it is a good thing that an already functioning energy generation unit serving the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian population, will be able to generate the repayments needed in the credit construction. We know that Paks II. The project contributes significantly to maintaining Hungary's secure, affordable and climate-friendly electricity supply. The use of nuclear energy is necessary and beneficial in compliance with the highest possible safety standards. Energy issues are often mentioned at Commission level, we also discuss this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs often, in terms of Hungary's energy independence or dependence on resource diversification, but none of them are such a good solution, we can talk about all kinds of currents, LNG terminals, anything, but none of them is as safe as if we can produce the necessary energy for businesses, Hungarian industry and, of course, for Hungarian households. That's why we support Paks II. project. The nuclear power plant does not generate carbon dioxide in case of adequate operational safety, it is free from harmful emissions, so it does not pollute the environment, it does not play a role in climate change. Nuclear power is clean and there is already a small amount of nuclear fuel that can generate a great deal of electricity, so in Hungary it is currently the cheapest electricity produced in the nuclear power plant. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant accounts for between 40 and 50 percent of domestic electricity production, so it is a key player in Hungary's energy management. At the same time, 15-17 percent of the world's electricity supply is generated by nuclear power plants and 75 percent of the electricity in France comes from nuclear power plants. Since the existence of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, it has saved more than 400 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, thus contributing significantly to our common climate protection objectives. At the same time, in addition to nuclear energy, it is important for us to use renewable energy sources. Our country has been able to grow in the last 20 years by reducing its CO2 emissions. In addition to Hungary, only 20 countries have been able to do this, so we have something to be proud of, but further important and significant steps are needed. Our program is to ensure that by 2030 the energy produced in Hungary is 90% carbon-free and that Hungary becomes climate-neutral by 2050. It is in Hungary's clear interest, national strategy and national security interest, to reduce its energy import needs, while at the same time ensuring a wider connection to regional electricity and gas networks, which is also a guarantee of security of supply and effective competition in imports. Our aim is to ensure that most of the Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources: nuclear energy and renewable energy, mainly solar power plants. These are not technologies that trigger or exclude each other, but solutions that support each other, and both can also be considered as clean energy sources. As I said, Hungary has saved more than 400 million tonnes of CO2 emissions since the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and the Hungarian solar power plants have been able to provide about a quarter of the total energy production during the summer period on a stronger summer day. Hungary's aim is to further reduce CO2 emissions during energy use and to further increase the use of renewable energy sources. For this purpose, two new 1200 megawatt nuclear power plant blocks are being built in Hungary in Paks. The delay was also mentioned by my fellow Member Balczó, and I agree here. The main reason for the delay is the different procedures conducted by the European Commission and their length, because I think that there is no problem with the procedures. With the European Commission's seal on it and the European Union marking nuclear energy as a sustainable resource and the European Union supporting nuclear energy, we have reached our goal. I am saying alone that the various investigations and processes of the European Commission have taken too long. The problem is not that such an investigation has taken place, it is not that important discussions have taken place and the necessary tests have been carried out on technology, the problem has been that it has lasted an incredibly long time. I would just like to say that with the current bill, we would like to transpose the amendments to the loan agreement with the Russian party, which is more favourable to Hungary, into the domestic legal order under Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts. The KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-21-114	Our next lead speaker is Attila Mesterházy, who presents the opinion of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to start by saying that I am not essentially anti-nuclear either, because in 2009, when it came to extending operational time in relation to the production of Paks nuclear power, we decided to support it, and at that time we thought it was right for the government to do this extension of operational time, in terms of national economy, energy security, national security and many other aspects, in which I think we can agree. And I don't think that it would be from the devil if we used nuclear energy for such purposes, but it is a fact and a fact that when it came to a debate on the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, we ourselves took the view that we should think a little about Hungary's path towards the future, and we didn't automatically cut the yes on this project. In fact, our position at the time has not changed since then, namely, we thought that a major social dialogue was needed for such an investment, and, if appropriate, a referendum should strengthen the implementation of such a project in Hungary, as this represents a very long-term and very important commitment for Hungary, both in terms of financial commitment and in terms of the development of the energy mix. We said then that there was a debate day on which the Fidesz lead speaker had already talked about the title of what the Paks investment might deprive Hungary of, indeed, we thought that from the point of view of developing the energy mix, if Hungary would start a project of this magnitude, it would automatically exclude other alternatives, since there would be no financial source to look for alternative routes and alternative solutions for renewable or any other energy generation. That is why we said, and we have always held the view that even more thoughtfulness, more negotiation and better preparation could have resulted in a better energy mix for Hungary. Many have said that this is the cheapest, cleanest, sustainable way of producing energy. I think that this is all true, until we start dealing with where nuclear waste is placed, because there is no solution to the safe, long-term disposal of these waste not only in Hungary, but in the world. If I remember correctly, there may be a very significant research in Finland, and perhaps there are two locations in France and Sweden where they have deignedly designated the location where they will want to store these nuclear waste, but basically, there is no solution globally to place these waste. Therefore, when we talk about this being the cheapest energy source, this is a false claim, as energy production also includes the cost of disposal of the resources and waste used in that process, and if taken into account, this is probably not the cheapest method of energy production in Hungary. In addition, where the government now deals with this type of research project, this is the neighbourhood of Pécs, it is unlikely that all the Pécs would agree that such a storage unit should be near the city's border, even if its possibilities are largely determined by the rock and the medium to which these fuel can be stored. [[17.00]] So I would be more careful with the statement that simplistically says that this is the cleanest, cheapest and very sustainable method. The other, on which, to say the least, I was also surprised as to the statement that this would reduce Hungary's dependence on Russia. Depends on how you look at it. It may reduce dependence on gas in some respects, but in many other respects it will only confirm Hungary's dependence on Russia financially. In fact, I would like to address this issue here, as the Secretary of State and many people have said how much better this amendment is than it was before. I also share the view that Mr Balczó has already spoken about, and on the basis of my information, this current interest rate that we have to pay is higher than the IMF interest rate, which you have criticised very much here from previous governments. Moreover, I would not be able to interpret the reduction in the duration of the term, i.e. the repayment term as a positive one. So the duration changes, but this change is true, that the duration of the repayment will be reduced by five years, which certainly does not serve Hungarian national interests, as this may be a greater burden. I don't even understand how to say that the cost of credit is not included in the price of energy. Not directly at the price of energy, but it is necessary to finance the repayment of this loan from a budget. So now, for example, what the Secretary of State proudly said was that we did not have any debts, because we paid back the detail, so we didn't pay it back from the operation of the nuclear power plant, but from the Hungarian budget, and taxpayers are making money there. So, in this sense, even our grandchildren will surely be burdened by the repayment of this extremely high-profile loan agreement. So I think that, in this respect, greater consideration would have been more appropriate. It might have been possible to open a new chapter for Hungary in the field of energy policy, if we thought about it more carefully, those who could have decided on this issue earlier, which has already been discussed here. It is a fact and true that, by starting this project and making certain commitments, Hungary has put it on a rail, so to speak, quite surely, from the point of view of energy security, and the more progress we make, the less it will be possible to change that. Nevertheless, we believe that this Russian loan is expensive, this Russian loan puts an enormous burden on the Hungarian budget. I think that the European Union has examined this investment, and I think it is not a disadvantage, but an advantage, and it is also not a problem that this project will not be implemented if it is implemented, as it was planned in advance, because it was intended to implement this project only in Russian cooperation. Today, this has also been expanded with EU actors, which I do not think is at all a disadvantage for this project. For my part, when it was about this investment before 2014, even at the level of the plans, I myself urged that it would be worth working with EU partners on this project. Then it was rejected by the Fidesz majority, and then, by now, it seems that this was a proposal that became a reality. Nevertheless, our position has not changed. We're not ab start, we're pre-ordained anti-nuclear. We understand the importance of this, its impact on the Hungarian national economy in terms of security of supply and many others, but we still think it would have been better to think more about it. That's part of it. The other, just to sum up, is that the financial burden of this is indeed an extremely big problem, and we think that it itself raises a kind of sovereignty problem, that we are committed to Russian funding at such a level, and we think that it significantly reduces or limits our national sovereignty. It is no coincidence that President Putin has visited Hungary several times, and the news has always been that perhaps one of the most important negotiating points for his arrival and his trip here has always been questions about the Paks nuclear power plant, although the Hungarian partners, the Hungarian Prime Minister, have always been discreet about this. But ever since this project kind of hit rock bottom, President Putin has been coming here less often. So it is clear from this that the Russian party has a geopolitical weight on the part of this transaction, not just an economic-commercial cooperation. Therefore, in this form, we are most likely not to support this current regulation, since the opposite processes are taking place with everything I have just said. The kind of exposure to the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, which on one side is Russian borrowing and on the other is a significant violation of Hungary's national sovereignty by taking credit from the Chinese Communist Party. It reduces the scope of the Hungarian foreign policy, reduces the Hungarian Prime Minister's ability to decide and competence, and therefore we find it harmful, even if it is absolutely logical to do so from the initiative side, from both Russia and China's side, and to expand such an area of influence or influence. However, from the point of view of Hungarian national interest, we believe that this increases our vulnerability and violates our national sovereignty. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-21-116	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is László Varju, who presents the opinion of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-117	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Maybe it's worth starting with, or I'll start by taking our position in a prerogative, and then I'll discuss some of the issues or experiences that have come up with in the past. The Group of the Democratic Coalition opposes investment in Paks II, because it is completely pointless, expensive and presents serious risks both in its political aspects and in terms of nuclear safety. So, based on everything, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You started it!]] I think and we have a clear view that we will not support this. Why is that? We can start the story from two directions. The proposal could give us a reason to discuss and debate this part of the content of the Paks investment, i.e. the need for it at all. The move in this direction, to take this forward again and to talk about it, is supported by the last five or six years, during which all of your efforts, which have started in the direction of achieving this, on the part of the party of the state, in this direction, I see that it is not going with sufficient schedule, primarily in accordance with your intentions. This is confirmed by the fact that we are talking about a major delay, a multi-annual delay, which is what you are trying to legalize here. This is also confirmed by the fact that a series of leaders have resigned in the past period, who have dealt with this task and left you in the picture; lastly, they have left after the public hearing of the National Atomic Energy Office, when it is in itself questionable that they cannot answer the question clearly that if they had to build a nuclear power plant in the vicinity of Paks today, it would not be possible to build a nuclear power plant in accordance with today's rules. Therefore, what you have just presented to us, as I have said, this story is not about that, but about what you want to do, about the financing of that. In recent years, you have not been successful in this, so this also leads us in the direction that neither the implementation of the content nor the way you want to do it can be supported. [[17.10]] My pro-state fellow Member assured us that the nuclear power plant would remain permanently state-owned. Thank you very much, we are grateful for it, and in this way I would rather express my doubts when you make such a clear statement. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán intervenes.]] We know what you're saying: we don't have to look at what they're saying, we know what they're doing. And what are they doing at this time of year? Well, first of all, let's just remember a little bit and look at this from the side of the contract. In 2014, Viktor Orbán agreed with Russian President Vladimir Putin in the framework of such a pocket contract, he rushed out in March 2014 and signed it, and in this respect it was considered good, and Hungary was forced to go on this route in this respect. For some reason, it was important for you to indebte Hungary in that direction. I agree with the view that there is much more here than nuclear power plant building in itself and loan financing in itself, here they have moved towards a major geopolitical issue where Russia is designated as a strategic partner instead of Europe, and it had to be demonstrated that this treaty could be signed and signed. Now, this contract seems to be very difficult to implement, and the contract itself has this issue and is therefore being pushed to 2030. I think that this is being pushed out by the voters who will judge this, because, as I mentioned at the beginning, we are opposed to the realisation of this investment, we find it completely pointless; it carries expensive and serious dangers. In this respect, I consider the support of pro-state representatives to be a dog's duty, which, as you do, is what you do. Now we can talk about the rational arguments that this is much more expensive than any other loan, but you have been ignoring this, and you will continue to do so, so the question is that there are actors who really don't want to deal with this issue, but who are responsible for signing the agreement in which Hungary is otherwise engaged in an agreement that is multiplicating the level of interest in the money market. The persuasion and the statements that the European Union has approved that this will be paid by the nuclear power plant in its process of operation could never prove on one side that we are talking about an investment that will otherwise have ever recovered; two: they want to sell it in a market where there is already saturation, and they think that, of course, from 2031 onwards, it will be the responsibility of those who then govern it, or will be the task of that company, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's management. In conclusion, this draft, which you are about to announce here, is not supported by the Democratic Coalition faction. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2021-05-21-118	Thank you. The first independent Member to apply may speak after the main speaker's round has been concluded. I therefore give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is not the first time that we are talking about Paks II here in the Hungarian Parliament, but I would like to note in a low voice that it is very important that we are able to talk about the borrowing of Paks II here in the Hungarian Parliament, but I would like to remind you that I have not been able to sue the Budapest-Belgrád railway credit agreement in the courts; that is how much the situation has changed below you compared to 2014 by 2021. At the same time, it is a very sad occasion for us to talk about this. I'm not happy about what we said back then. Because your motto could be that after us, the flood, because this Paks II business, as it is, is bleeding from a thousand wounds, and the fact that you are now forced to modify the credit agreement clearly shows that you clearly see that you have cut your ax into a tree that you cannot handle. When Viktor Orbán got on that plane in 2014 and went to Moscow, Lászlóné Németh and Mihály Varga and other actuators helped him with his work, I held up the sign somewhere in the Hungarian Parliament that we would not be a Russian colony. And here we are in 2021, and I really think that we are very little separated from this change of government in 2022. Hungary doesn't have a very different chance. Look at the spree they did here. For the past year and a half, we've been fighting the virus, a pandemic, a pandemic, but you're not, you've been fighting us, you've been fighting the opposition, you're trying to reschedule this horror contract with the Russians, but you've finally failed. They tried everything, they really tried to replace it, it was prepayment, there was a lot of stuff left behind. But in the meantime there is the Budapest-Belgrade railway line, 600 billion; to Fudan, I don't know, 450 billion, we're at about 5,000 billion, which is a loan that can lead us to the East, it can make us a colony of much stronger empires than we are, very, very simply. And it's an unforgivable sin, a historical sin that's on the hands of Fidesz and KDNP. I am one of the few Members who even looked into the secret documents that are kept in secret rooms, but this would not have been the way to carry the contract and the credit agreement behind us in the Hungarian Parliament. By the way, the credit agreement was a clear situation, and we said that we said that you said that this is the business of the century, that the contract of the century, we said that it was the Russians. And how interesting, now that we have learned from the Ria Novosti agency, so we had to read their news, the Russian news, to make news in Hungary that you tried to change the contract so that it would be a little better for Hungary, as a Russian success, they told us that the horror rate and the 16-year term will remain, which clearly shows that there will be a much greater burden for future Hungarian taxpayers to raise the money that you are now borrowing. In recent years, we've been trying to clean up what this Russian loan means to us. It's just a little anecdote about it. The contract was in 2014, and as far as we know, the first dose was called in 2017 and it was very talkative when the turning points were, one point on 15 March at the Hungarian national festival, and I remember that, yes, they started calling it down, and then they said that in 2020 János Süli said that we had paid 23 bills, and they tried to repay it immediately. Now, logically speaking... Because even though Mihály Varga got on the plane, he couldn't make this loan more favorable for us. Now, the thing is, we're gonna pre-empt and reschedule and borrow so that we can pay this loan, then we're gonna... so it's a confession that we've got some kind of bad loan, and it turns out, so we've known that since then. Now, what we're about to find out clearly shows that the worst possible scenario has been achieved, nothing is going to work. You practically ran into a huge slap, Vladimir Putin is stronger than Viktor Orbán. This is very sad, by the way, because even when you, if everything is true, will not be in power, we still have to find a way to close this credit agreement, and we have to come out of it somehow, so I'm telling you not to think that I'm happy that we're in a situation like this. We are therefore talking about 3600 billion euro loans in HUF with much higher interest rates than in the market, so that, by the way, Viktor Orbán came home from Brussels with, I don't know, 0.5-0.6 percent of interest, and he said that he didn't want it, because it is national sovereignty; I think it is because it can't be stolen from it. [[17.20]] I would also like to make it clear here that the Russians and the Chinese are asking relatively few questions about where this money goes, how it is called, what it is used for. There are other rules in the European Union. I would also like to remind you that, for example, in Finland, it was clearly stated that you left a contract with Roszat because you said that the great Russian company has a different culture than the Finns. There they start to act first, and then they write, and the Finns say that they like to discuss the questions first, and then they start to act. Two other cultures met, and the Finns said thank you, it is not right for us; in Hungary you do not say that. I've been trying to find out what's come of the money that's already been invested in Paks II. We see that two office buildings and a kitchen, Paks II, have already been built out of 120 billion. Zrt. And PIP Kft., I don't know, can spend nearly 28 billion dollars in public procurement, 250 containers and a metal warehouse, a steel product-making department, a concrete mixer and a concrete investigator. So they've started stockpiling this infrastructure at Paks, so I'd like to remind you that the National Atomic Energy Agency hasn't yet issued a permit for what you're about to do to create new nuclear blocks. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, for me, there have been very overwhelming changes here, suddenly around the OAH. I read the report, they wrote that there is a shortage of workers, it would take more colleagues to enable something of this magnitude, such as Paks II, to carry out their approval at an appropriate rate, not to have new colleagues, but to have a new head of the National Atomic Energy Office; not to be a Director-General, but to be president, and to have a state like this running a thing in that office, it will be virtually irreplaceable. So what you're doing here with Paks II is that if there's a change of government in the country, then your business with the Russians, in the National Atomic Energy Office, is to move on with their own people. I would remind you of one other thing: János Áder was right about one thing: a nuclear power plant is not a bicycle storage facility. From now on, I am very concerned about your movements in the nuclear field, because this is an area where all mankind has hit their ankles very hard. We should have learned a lot from the mistakes of the past decades, and from the fact that no matter how safe you think and say nuclear energy is, people do it, and as long as you do it, it's never gonna be perfect, and a very, very small mistake here can have very, very serious consequences. This is why there is now a very serious political, professional and social dialogue surrounding the establishment of new nuclear power stations. You are also in debt, so you are not only indebted to credit and financial problems, but you are indebted to a strong political debate. The question of what happened here in the Hungarian Parliament in 2009 and how they brought together the extension in principle is not for you to ask. There was no political debate in 2014, there was a commitment overnight, and according to my information, the Prime Minister even informed his own faction after he arrived from Moscow. There was no professional debate, there are relevant documents about the future of Hungary's green energy in various branches, these were not discussed by experts, let's say, in a well-functioning Hungarian public TV, public radio, public forums, and the social debate was not there. So it's really your business. I met a non-critical physicist for nuclear power plant construction who said, "Yeah, it's pretty clear to him, Paks II." It's not about nuclear power, it's about stealing, so a lot of people couldn't be deceived. When an independent research was made by Paks II. there were two thirds of its support, but on the other side, on the side where they are opposed to this investment. What were you supposed to do? I'm telling you, it's really a day of mourning for me to discuss a credit facility against a two-thirds Fides here, and even if the opposition votes against it, this overwhelming legacy will remain here on the next government. What you should have done, I would like to say because I remember your 2010 program, I think that was the last one on Fidesz's part. For example, it was written that 10 percent of the Hungarian housing stock, I don't know, will create 80,000 jobs each year by renovating it. Such very progressive proposals were made in 2010, but, well, that was not the case. For example, one of your ministers, who is now claiming to be the president of the country, has been working in Brussels until the non-refundable use of the population has been rescheduled to public institutions, although in energy we can best catch the homes, so where people live on a daily basis, it must be isolated for the first time. Of course, I can get a solar panel, and I don't know, but I think we should have given this money to people, families, households first. And there is also the Energy Union, which you like to copy with sovereignty, that no, we in Hungary are Hungarian nuclear power plants, I don't know, and finally Hungarian uranium. They had the idea to open uranium mines in the Mecs again, and then they'd bury it somewhere near my hometown, which would come out of it, or the fuel would stay there. I don't know what your plans are, but this is an abuse of sovereignty. Hungary is a small country, Pécs itself, and it is full of strategic plans that would bring that settlement specifically towards sustainability, and the pollution of the former uranium mining is still moaning on the water base, so it must also be repaired there. I very much hope that you do not want to open a uranium mine there, but there is also a serious protest that the spent fuel may be spent 8-10 kilometers away from the administrative border of Pécs. Once I was there, Pakson, so in the current operating blocks, I asked what would happen to the spent fuel, because they rest there with the exception of one that was secretly taken to Russia through the war Ukraine, even the National Security Committee found out afterwards. So don't think it's okay, they're there, so what the four blocks that you've been using from the beginning, they're there. I asked the communications director what would happen to them. I think the first part of your answer was that he wanted to make it clear that they considered these spent fuel valuable. I told you it was fantastic, and then what's gonna happen to these values, and there's no answer. There's no answer! Here's my answer to KDNP and Fidesz: in the approach from the cradle to the grave, we can call something green, clean, if from the beginning to the end, and there are few things as dirty in the world as a burned-out, yet very dangerous fuel from a nuclear power plant for a long, long time, and there are still all the clothes and everything else they use, all potential hazards. We are thinking about how we will mark this for our offspring, that there is even radioactive material here, because we are talking about a long, long time, an invisible time. And then we have to ask ourselves, all of us, and all 199 Members, the question of what future we want to leave behind. Do we really want our air conditioner and everything else to give the future a nuclear waste heap that we know we can't do anything about? Nuclear energy is becoming increasingly expensive everywhere in the world, precisely because of the security requirements, because it is a very dangerous genre, and especially so dangerous, gentlemen, I don't see a lady here now, if the whole project is so opaque, as you do. So let the miracle be that I, in the words of János Áder, finish my speech here in the Hungarian Parliament: bear in mind that a nuclear power plant is indeed not a bicycle storage facility. I would like this very serious social and physical problem to be dealt with in accordance with your weight, not as a sort of account operation that will allow Lőrinc Mészáros and your oligarchs to benefit from. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We have a responsibility to the future, and this responsibility has clearly shown your face here and now. Thank you for listening. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2021-05-21-120	Thank you. Our next speaker is Bence Tordai, notary of the Parliament, representative of the Dialogue. Here you go. [[17 .30]]
u2021-05-21-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Theoretically, we should be discussing the bill on the amendment of the Russian loan agreement to fund Paks II, but quite rightly my fellow Members have widened the subject of the debate, because the most important thing of this bill is that it should not be brought before the House at all, it should not be concluded an international agreement on this, it should not be negotiated with the Russians on credit, because it should not be made by Paks II. Its investment should not be financed in any way, nor should it be built. Fidesz, which always refers to a huge social mandate, a large majority in society or at least a large majority in Parliament, would be good to face the fact that 19 percent of Hungarians support this investment. This is an investment that really determines not only our energy policy, but also our energy policy for the next generations, but also the life, everyday life, security and, not to mention, the situation of their wallets, as Paks II. investment in the economic sense of an incredibly flawed project. Now let's put aside who believes in the safety of nuclear power and who doesn't, it is difficult to argue after Majak, Chernobyl and Fukushima that there can be no problems here, a major nuclear disaster is scheduled to occur every 20 years, and most Hungarian people know that, and they do not consider nuclear energy to be a safe energy. Nor can it be overlooked that this is not a desirable project for the green changeover. Even if they try to spread the opposite false news, we know the Fidesz MEPs, which is why they keep them, but nuclear energy is not a climate neutral way of producing energy. In the whole life cycle, nuclear energy is roughly the carbon footprint of natural gas plants. So if we want a carbon-neutral future, if we want to stop the climate crisis, slow down the amazing climate change that threatens human civilization in its fundamental existence, then we really need to look away not only from coal power plants, oil and natural gas, but also from the nuclear power plant, and really turn to renewables. Here there may still be discussions, even within the opposition, on certain professional issues, that it is possible to replace nuclear energy, fortunately we have good news, yes, it may be. In the energy road plan with a projection until 2050, which is available to everyone on the maintenance energy.hu website, Benedek Jávor and his team of experts showed exactly how to implement an energy mix in Hungary that is safe, climate neutral and cheap. And then let's get to the financial questions... [[Zoltán Balczó: How? Long story short.]] I can't make it short. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: It is difficult too long!]] This can only be done by using renewables or a minimum gas power plant. Overall, it is possible to switch to a climate neutral economy by simply closing nuclear power plants in Hungary when the Paks I life cycle expires. Let us add that this is obviously not possible to be extended very much, since there are already security risks. So, this project also seems to be a very bad idea economically, because according to the various calculations, it can cost up to 285 billion forints a year. So I don't fully understand when you say here that the reason for the bill is that you have to start paying it off is because we'll be able to finance the loan from the proceeds. This power plant will be wasted even when it's in operation, and then let's just ignore the investment. The most expensive energy we can build now is energy from the nuclear power plant. The renewable energy revolution wiped out all economic calculations, which could have previously justified the existence of a similar nuclear investment. Today, market prices are such that energy from renewable sources can be bought for half the electricity generated here. This situation will continue to deteriorate until 2031 when this nightmare is promised to be opened. So when they produce this energy four times and five times in our nightmare, it's gonna be hard to explain why it's such a good business. This is a terrible investment, a terrible investment that will tax every Hungarian family with HUF 2 million and will never be repaid. So we shovel the money into nowhere. We're not doing good for the climate, and we're endangering our own health, and not only if the power plant goes off, it's really bad to think about it, but we're looking at how we managed to build this nuclear plant on a fault line, so they'd install Paks II in an active seismologically risky location. Let us add that the water yield of the Danube will no longer be sufficient to cool this incredible amount of reactor. So when you plan to operate six reactors at once in Paks, and the summers are getting more and more droughty, well, the temperature of the Danube is already much higher than it can bear because of the cooling water coming out of the Paks Power Plant! They had to draw the water temperature readings last year or the year before. Climate change is constantly coming, and summers are getting hotter here in the Carpathian Basin. The annual average temperature is already more than 1.5 degrees warmer and the weather is getting more extreme. There will be massive heat waves in the coming years and decades, and the Danube's summer water level will be lower, and they want to allow a double capacity of cooling water to do so. I don't know how you think this is gonna work in the 2030s, when you really think six reactors should work there at the same time. So not only nuclear power plants and nuclear power are generally dangerous, but this particular investment is also very dangerous. And let's look at the national security risks. Do we really want to expose ourselves to Russia in both energy and financial terms? They are talking about sovereignty, when, unlike any sane European country that is really trying to move towards energy independence, is it really trying to get rid of Russian energy imports, would you continue to increase this dependency? Russian technology, Russian engineers, Russian money, Russian investment, Russian fuel, which we can either transport back to Russia if they're kind to us, or isn't this how they want to build a nuclear power plant? Well, I'm begging you. No wonder the fifth of people don't support this freak. I just don't know why they insist on it. I recently read the idea of how important it is for Putin to keep Viktor Orbán and Fidesz in power at the elections in Hungary, as they are the ones who can exert much more effective pressure on them. This expert was wondering what was in the hands of the Russians, by which he persuaded Viktor Orbán to agree to this project which is clearly harmful to Hungary. This only serves Russian interests, supports and satisfies Russian Imperial aspirations, but that it does not use Hungary, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian energy policy, the security of the Hungarian people or the fight against climate change in any way, it is absolutely certain. And then really back to the financing issues, because that is what this debate is about, in principle, that the EUR 4 000 billion loan is about, but let's add, by the time this nuclear power plant is built, it is quite clear that we can count on double and three times this originally calculated cost, if we look at how much the nuclear power plants built in Europe are now, from Slovakia to Finland, how much they cost, none of them will stop at the originally planned cost, two or three times more than three times the cost, so there is one that is more than three times the cost, so this 4,000 billion, which may be at the end of the day, and then there will be a price of HUF 1 million each for this wonderful loss nuclear power plant, so how do you want to finance this money. The loan you are changing here is at 3.95-4.95, so it is ticking at a rate of 4-5 per cent over the different time horizons, while the European Union is told that a 0-1 per cent loan is not required. [[17.40]] And then Viktor Orbán explains that he does not want to indebte Hungary, and how evil the governments before 2010 were, because the government was handed over with debt of over 80 percent. I would point out that the government debt is still above 80 percent, and I would like to say that the Union would give us virtually free credit, which is amazing, hundreds or even thousands of billions of forints in order to be compared to the Chinese and Russian loans they have taken. Then why would you want to take a 4-5 percent interest rate on such a loan? That's what we need to explain. And it is now a matter of detail, compared to the fact that we are now debating a five-year shorter term, so the repayments should be even bigger. And why is the maturity higher? 'Cause the investment's slipping. The Russian partner you consider very reliable at the beginning said that the nuclear power plant will be standing here in 2023. Now we're in the middle of 2021, and maybe they'll start digging all kinds of holes, but just because they've rewritten the regulations to at least dig a hole and concrete, they'll have something to feed the Ripper and the Siserahada. So, not only will there be no nuclear power plant here by 2023, but not by 2031, even if Viktor Orbán ruled here until the end of the world, because Russian contractors simply cannot deliver quality for time. That's the only reason they shouldn't be signed. They failed with the same product already in St. Petersburg, because there are such malfunctions. And they failed the authorisation procedure in Finland. Really, why is Hungary exposed to this risk? I see that they have a bad conscience, I see that they dare not look me in the eye and dare not look the Hungarian people in the eye. I would ask you to take this whole package, along with Paks II, as it is, back where it was brought, to Moscow, thank you very much, and to swallow the frog, that you may take out the unpleasant documents that are available in all Moscow archives about it. If this Viktor Orbán is truly a brave, big politician, a stateman in great form, then you should collect all your courage, take up your personal risk and not play against the interests of Hungary, not as a minister of Putin, but try to look at the interests of the future, the interests of the Hungarian people, the interests of the 99 percent, and not the interests of the nearly 1 percent who profit financially from this investment. I would like to say that their children and grandchildren will not thank them, even if they leave a billion-dollar legacy of their involvement in this shameful project. So pull yourselves together, withdraw this bill, and cancel the entire Paks II investment. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-21-122	Thank you. Our next speaker was Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-123	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond relatively long. I hope you'll go to your place and listen to what I have to say because you didn't listen to me the other day.
u2021-05-21-124	Excuse me, Congressman, the microphone isn't working. [[Zoltán Balczó puts his microphone on.]] It's working now.
u2021-05-21-125	Thank you, Mr. President. I can tell Lőrinc Nacsa that when he talks about the delay, he blames it only on the European Union, because the fashion of Fidesz now is that he is guilty and Russia is doing everything right. I said, yes, that a significant part of the delay was due to the long examination by the EU, which had its advantage, because it did so thoroughly. Then, from November 2016 until July 2020, Rosatom was delayed with the plans. So feel free to share why this delay is taking place. László Varju says that it should be proved credible that it is profitable. The European Union looked so closely at Hungary, which was represented by Viktor Orbán in the Paks case, which was no longer his favourite Member State at the time, that it only accepted it because it could show a 7.5 percent profit in terms of lifetime. Therefore, the fact that it is crediblely profitable is not claimed by the investor. Besides, he's talking about how we're gonna sell in a saturated market. Well, Paks is responsible for 50 percent of the current Hungarian domestic production, Paks II. 40 per cent of our expected total energy consumption. So it should not be sold on a foreign market, but if it is done, it should also be known that today there is an increasing shortage, so we cannot say that our 30% import, which is indeed a national strategy, security issue, is increased to 50, because it is not available, they want to import today rather than produce. In the case of Wind Bernadett, I say that if he appeared as an activist who says that he is opposed to nuclear energy and only talks about what his dangers are, examples of what he would be, he would be an honorable activist. But he may also set up detailed professional questions that do not correspond to reality. By the way, I asked him if the American Westinghouse company would build this nuclear capacity, he would agree. No, he'd reject it the same way. So regardless of the contractor, there's a fundamental refusal on his part. And if Bence Tordai, who is a highly suggestional politician, appeared as an activist against nuclear energy and didn't give me misleading facts that I need to re-establish, then maybe this isn't where the support for nuclear power would be. For example, in Hungary everyone knows football, there are 10 million federal captains here, so we are born, but people do not know about the energy system, the energy mix, nuclear energy, and they are happy to listen to it. I, too, would like this country's energy needs to be resolved from blessed sunlight and the wind. We couldn't solve this anywhere, even where the gifts are brilliant, but we're limited. Of course, there could be more wind power in the system. We are pleased that the government has put solar power on its flag, there have been days when 26,5 percent have been achieved, but no one has given me an answer to what will happen if the current Paks nuclear capacity ceases to exist. And let's not talk about megawatts or performance, because you can build a huge amount of renewable power, but about what you can deliver and produce at the right time. That is, how this 40 percent could be replaced. This is the following answers I've received so far. Between 2010-15, MEP LMP said that there should be more coal, for of course Bernadett Szél said that this was out of the question. Our MSZP fellow Member told us last time to extend his life to Paks I. This is absurd, because we know when the extended life content expires. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck gave the best possible answer, saying that by 2035 science will be evolving to solve the question of what to do instead of nuclear energy. I can tell you to trust him. Let us hope that electricity can be stored properly. Let's hope fusion power plants are being developed. But it is not realistic to expect, and a country cannot rely on its energy security to trust the development of science. And I've even heard that he's here in this study. [[He's showing it to me.]] But when I asked what was in it, I didn't get an answer. Everyone wants to have only these blessed natural resources, but we can't solve that. I don't know if there's any point in rebutting what Bence Tordai claims, namely, it's not true that nuclear energy is a clean energy for CO2 emissions. [[17.50]] In the same way, I have read not all the data, only the most important ones, what is the specific emissions and what is the total lifetime emissions, for tons of CO2/gigawattor energy. Solar energy between 40 and 100, so full life 100, nuclear energy between 10 and 40, wind energy between 7 and 20. So nuclear energy is between wind and solar energy, while coal is between 800 and 1100, lignite is 1060, natural gas is 400, so it is smaller by magnitude. When I told you that this was data from the World Energy Council, you said that this was a lobbying organisation, and you told me to look at the IPCC, which is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. I sent this link to Congressman, we even looked at it together and it's in diagrams, not figures, word for word. So, Congressman, if you say that you stand up to your persuasive political abilities and say that the whole lie is just as polluting as natural gas, then, of course, people can be misled. And that's the problem, not that you're rejecting nuclear energy, but that you're not telling the truth in facts. Otherwise, let me just add: in the European Union, nuclear energy accounts for 25.8 percent of energy consumption, in France it is increased by 48 percent, by the Czech Republic; it is also an environmentally friendly country such as Sweden and Finland that builds on nuclear energy. And what it will cost, three times or I don't know what kind of data you said at the end: in one case, unfortunately, it will increase if the forint rate changes, because here the agreement is fixed, as far as I know, but perhaps it will be supplemented by a Secretary of State, EUR 12.5 billion can obviously be concluded only in euros, not in forints, that can't change; that's it until the turnkey. So it may indeed be growing, if the Hungarian economy has such performance that the exchange rate of the forint will change. By the way, as I said, this form of lending and the 4.5 percent we did not agree with, we abstained at the time, and we still feel that this would be very high, but in some respects this 4.5 percent is fortunate that it is easy to find the credit that triggers this on the market at a low level, and yet, as much as investments and payments have already been made, nothing has yet to be called off by way of prepayment. I admit it would have been much better to get a lower interest rate even for a safety net. So for us, this is the basic question of what we can replace it with. And once again, yes, I was involved in Romania, Bulgaria, with what is a fictitious concept of energy security when there is no adequate electricity. And when this situation happens, then you can talk about how everything has been resolved with green energy, but there is no such country, so renewable energy is working with other basic energy types. And I'll tell you, there's a country where a referendum was able to get a nuclear power plant to shut down, not even start. The only option behind this was Austria; a country with a hydroelectric power plant, which was also built under Vienna, was to bring the gas turbines from Bős-Nagymaros to provide 60% of its energy needs by hydropower. So, if Hungary were in such a situation, I would go to protest against nuclear energy, all we need to see is that there is a Hungarian energy mix, a Hungarian energy supply at the moment; it is not that we want to include even nuclear power in our otherwise well-functioning energy system, it is about how we want to continue to operate this system. And in this respect, I have not yet heard a real answer, meeting the conditions and meeting the right security, the right price and the right climate aspects. That's why I don't see a new government coming in 2022 and saying we're gonna stop Paks now forget that this has any international contract obligations, what he's gonna say by 2035. And I'm going to read the Jávor Benedict study you mentioned, only if it gives you a clear answer, you can say in a sentence what will take its place. This is an emergency situation so that Hungary's energy needs are met through our capabilities in such a way that by 2050, we hope to meet zero emissions safely, at the right price and fulfilling our expectations, we must maintain the existing capacity. Unfortunately, we have to acknowledge that. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-21-126	Our next speaker was Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, told me things that I had little left to react to. I am very pleased that, when it comes to professional issues, there is a way to speak a language, even with opposition representatives. I, too, may respond to Bence of Tordai, not the things that my fellow Member Balczó has already mentioned here, but, for example, it has been said that Fidesz has made this decision and that the whole Paks enlargement has been invented by Fidesz. So, I would like to inform you that in 2009, your allies decided that this should be examined and that this should be launched. Otherwise, they were right to do so, because this is a very long-running investment, and this requires a series of very, very long-term decisions. There was no mention of carbon neutrality here that nuclear energy would be carbon neutral, because, as our fellow Member Balczó called the data here, even solar energy is not, because everything has a pre-life and a post-life. But what is very important is that immediately after wind energy, nuclear energy is the least carbon positive if this strange concept can be used. You, my fellow Member, are not arguing with the Fidesz on this issue of carbon neutrality, but with the International Atomic Energy Agency, which may not have been here at the time when I quoted this in October 2020 stated that achieving the 2 degrees Celsius threshold set in the Paris Climate Convention without nuclear power is almost impossible, if not directly impossible. I am willing to accept that in the secret report of Benedek Jávor and the experts gathered around him, there is a worldwide Nobel Prize-worthy statement on how to achieve this without nuclear power. [[18.00]] Knowing Benedek Jávor, I would not necessarily entrust him with the energy supply of the future not only in Hungary but also in Europe and the world. Especially because, from what I hear, you said that you could only say it for a long time, it's difficult, but what you said was about gas power plants, and you said that nuclear power will be a Russian dependence on fuel. Let me ask you, where does Hungary get the gas? From the Russians. And that is where it is important that the new block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will not only be able to operate with Russian fuel in the future, but also, if necessary, with an American or whatever. So addiction is definitely decreasing. And here I would signal to my fellow Member, Mesterházy, who said that instead of being dependent on gas, we would be subject to a financial dependency with Russia. That would be true if there wasn't the possibility that the loan could be repaid free of charge at any moment. This loan can be redeemed from another place, if you like, pre-reimbursable. Several times, it has been suggested why the government does not use the zero-percent EU loan for this. Because that is not possible; because there is a provision for the purposes for which this particular reconstruction loan can be used. It can't be for that purpose. In the free market, however, loans can be found today around 0.5-1 per cent, and this is exactly what the government is using, and this is precisely such an opportunity, which is a very important part of this credit agreement, and I think this is the most important point of this Hungarian loan agreement with the Russian Federation that can be repaid free of charge at any time. My fellow Member Varju was a little fooled by the fact that we intend to keep the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in permanent state ownership. May I remind you that the governments before 2010 to which our fellow Member Varju was also a representative were, at that time, even in the colors of the MSZP, practically what was not nailed down was misplaced. We had to buy it back. For example, we had to buy back MOL shares from Russia into Hungarian ownership, which is now one of the funding bases for universities, university education. Mr Bernadett Szél had quite a sombre view of my fellow Member Balczó by saying that he was acting like an activist and not as a decision-maker. I think that we are here in Parliament, so some decision-making attitude would certainly not hurt. And it's a separate story that I don't think the Earth has ever worn a green activist who, say, is trying to stop a 40-year-old dump from recultivating in a campaign-like way. This recultivation is in Zsámbek, where I live. By the way, it turns up in every single campaign. Stupendous slides, lies, lying photographs, lying videos of this recultivation, of the recultivation that is exemplary, from the government office, all authorities regularly examine water samples as they should, and it goes flawlessly. All the booths living there finally see something happening as Wind Bernadett's fake green go against that. I would like to draw attention to one thing, because we could hear things from Bernadett Szél with such an activist approach, but it was interesting what he said that in his 2010 programme Fidesz was a very sympathetic thing: that we renew 10 percent of the housing stock. And somehow he feels that this didn't happen. And let me tell you, or should I inform you, that there are brigades of housing renovation subsidies going on. House building, house building, CSOK, heating renovations, various support schemes. I'm pretty sure I don't know the number: by far, 10 percent of the housing stock was exceeded by these renovations. Well, once again, I would like to thank my fellow Member Balczó for his professionally correct speech and participation in this debate. I hope this praise will not harm your party career. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-05-21-128	On a two-minute comment, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Just to make sure it doesn't go wrong in the report: in 2009 the National Assembly gave an agreement in principle to start preparing for a possible nuclear block expansion, taking into account the Hungarian energy policy strategic objectives for the period 2008-20. But in this decision alone, there was a reference to this energy policy decision of 2008, in which point 4, which is mentioned in particular, concerns the use of renewable energy sources. Before we say that the MSZP government has also decided on Paks II, let me nuance this picture gently, so we don't have to argue with our allied partners on this policy issue right away. So it was simply a principled mandate to examine this possibility well and not to rule out this chance. That's what the 2009 parliamentary resolution was about. Two, I disagree. I understand what Zsolt Csenger-Zalán is talking about, that the reason why this loan contract is good is because we can always use a cheaper loan. Then let me ask you why we are not discussing today with a cheaper loan, and we are not taking this loan from the Russians at 4-5 percent, but we are taking it on the market at half a percent, and then we might not even be discussing a lot of professional policy issues aside, but I would just stick to the current subject of the bill. So, Secretary of State, why doesn't the government take steps not to draw the first instalment or the second one, pay back, not 70 million euros, nothing, but to replace this market with a half-percent credit. And by the way, that wasn't what the criticism was about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That the EU resource can be used for nothing but that you generally talk about EU credit as if it were debt slavery, while other borrowings are not spoken of in this spirit. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-05-21-130	Thank you. I will also give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz, for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-131	Thank you, I would just like to say very briefly what my fellow Member Mesterházy said about credit. The reason why it was not possible to borrow EUR 10 billion for such a long period of time with better conditions is because there is no such on the market. For Hungary, there was no. This was the opportunity for Hungary, but it is always there, and Hungary has the opportunity to redeem the credit corresponding to the respective instalments or even in instalments with a cheaper source, but I needed a guarantee, such as a long-term ten billion-year so-called safety net, which works even if the money abundance of the world market gave me the former voice of one of the party leaders. It may not always be given, but such an investment is going to be long-term, it cannot be stopped, if we start, we have to do it, the country needs it, Hungarian people need it, Hungarian businesses need it. Thank you very much. [[18.10]]
u2021-05-21-132	Thank you. I will also give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó for two minutes. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-133	Thank you for the floor. It's just that I'm going to go back to exactly the resolution proposal we're talking about in 2009, and I have to say, I quote, I'm telling you, this wasn't about starting to think about the possibility of building a nuclear power plant. This says that the Parliament gives a preliminary principle contribution to the period 2008-2020 on the basis of such paragraphs on nuclear energy and refers to the start of another decision referred to by the Member to prepare for the establishment of a new block. So he started us not to think about it, but he decided to start this preparatory activity. This proposal for a resolution was submitted by the government, not by six parties, and its support was very large, ninety percent, in order to start the preparatory work; therefore, it did not only stimulate me to think. Thank you.
u2021-05-21-134	Attila Mesterházy has the word again. MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-05-21-135	We can argue about this for a while, and then I'll start remembering a few questions about how Jobbik's relationship with Russia was, and on what professional grounds have you decided that anything that comes from Russia can only be good. Once again, this story was indeed about starting the preparatory work in this regard; not the construction work, the preparatory work. The preparatory work is about the fact that there is no credit agreement, it is possible to withdraw from it, there comes a next Jobbik government, which eliminates it, along with the PM and the LMP, so anything can be done, but no concrete or anything has been built there in 2009. I would add that in 2009 there was no great doubt that the socialist government at the time was losing the elections, so it was quite certain that this would be the task of a next government. Once again, the proposal was to give a principled contribution to the professional preparation of such a thing, where appropriate. But what you have referred to, Mr President, is that it was written that this and this, and this, is the part that I have referred to, that, in view of the renewable energy sources, which this Parliamentary Decision of 2008 gave particular emphasis to, in particular, that, in order to expand these renewable energy sources, Hungary must be increasingly and increasingly given more and more attention in the energy mix, or that this should be given more and more emphasis in the Hungarian energy mix. So in Hungarian, it was not the MSZP government that decided to become Paks II., it was decided by the Fidesz government, it was not the MSZP government that decided to borrow 3200 billion forints... [[Bence Balczó is talking to Zoltán Tordai.]] I'll wait for Congressman to be able to make sure I don't have to say anything again, because it's Friday afternoon. Just because I'm talking to the congressman, I thought you might be interested in my sentence. So in Hungarian, we say that more attention should be given to this issue in this regard. And yet I could say another, and this was no longer addressed to Mr Balczó, so you can continue the discussion, that when Zsolt Csenger-Zalán talked about not having such a large loan at Hungary's disposal for such a long time, I was waiting for this answer to be told at last, because it is not immediately true in this respect that Hungary can redeem this loan at any time. So what it's all about is that I know this magnitude of credit, how many times the then government discussed how to support it with other alternatives, but it wasn't really available for such a long-term loan. Therefore, the claim that this can be replaced at any time for the full term is certainly not true. Therefore, if Russia decided, for some reason, to grant such a long-term loan with a state guarantee, then there was some political consideration behind this and not merely economic and financial rationality. So I was referring to this, that if some government decides to make a financially non-rational decision, then there must be other decisions behind them, and I think that this is what many of us have referred to in relation to the comment that, indeed, Russia has other geopolitical goals with this type of loan placement and investment, with a project, which I say once again from their point of view is completely rational and logical, perhaps less so from the point of view of the Hungarian national interest. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-21-136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ordering a two-minute technical break, perhaps colleagues from Mesterházy and Balczó will be able to discuss certain things during this time. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Balczó: I am not logged in, Mr President. I'm not logged in.]] (Recess: 18.15-18.22) President: Dr. Brenner Koloman Notes: József Móring Attila and Bence Tordai)
u2021-05-21-137	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-05-21-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the support of Mr Csenger-Zalán and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Thank you very much to Attila Mesterházy for the professional suggestions, and I especially thank Zoltán Balczó for his professional suggestions and also for the way he put the activist-like nonsense in place from an energy professional point of view. You saved me the trouble, and I agree perfectly with your assessment, by the way. As regards the issue of financing, which we are talking about here, this is called project funding, which is characterised by the fact that, as project costs arise, credit is drawn and so is available. So, when we talk about the need for an ICS amount of money in a given period, it is available and it can be called off. When interest rates on the market are lower at the moment of drawdown and refinancing does not cost money, so there is no penalty rate or penalty fee because we have to pre-empt that detail and we can borrow from the market at more favourable interest rates, then we will replace it. That's what we've done. When we talk about how this can be made cheaper at any time, we do not say that the entire 10 billion, because it is not possible to take EUR 10 billion from the market at the same time, but the sections that we call down can be recorded on the market, so that is what this is all about. The second thing is that project financing is about starting the loan repayment when the project you are financing starts to generate revenue. This was one of the important elements in the amendment to the loan agreement that we start the loan repayment at the moment that this project starts generating revenue and can repay it, so it is not the budget that has to pay it, but Paks II itself. You can pay for it. In terms of interest rates: high interest rates, I agree, in the present interest environment. And we eliminate this potential disadvantage of high interest rates by taking on a cheaper loan every time on the market, and immediately, almost the next day, we repay the part called, so this high interest rate almost barely enters in and hardly has to be paid, as it is immediately refinanced. It is very important to say that this is in the current interest rate environment, because it is a 25-year-old loan, and there is absolutely no guarantee that in ten years' time there will still be such a low interest rate environment. We may go into an interest-raise cycle in the world, and maybe interest rates are going up so high, we don't know when it's not gonna be an expensive loan at all. This is worth taking into account, it is practically a financing strategy, it is quite clear; so as long as interest rates are lower than the interest rate on this loan, we will immediately refinance the part just called down, and then, of course, if the interest rates on the market are higher. I have not said one more thing, and this is also a change from the original loan agreement. In the original loan agreement, we always had to pay a maintenance fee to the Russian party. This has been modified in the new credit agreement, and we only have to pay the maintenance fee for the possible part of the credit that we have not indicated six months in advance that we have to call it off. It's a significant change in the credit agreement, and I didn't comment on that in the original exposure. Congressman Attila Mesterházy said that waste disposal costs are not taken into account in the calculation of return. But, they're being taken into account based on the technologies we know now. When a return is calculated, these costs are taken into account, so we take them into account in advance. Mr László Varju mentioned that he was talking about a saturated market, which I did not understand, because we are currently importing 30% of electricity. And the electricity consumption will go up. Just think of the fact that, on the one hand, industry is developing, and, on the other hand, if, for example, the automotive industry is actually going to move in the direction of replacing the current internal combustion vehicle stock, then there is a need for quite serious electricity production, which again raises questions as to where, in fact, green is. Finally, but I hope that we have managed to give a reassuring answer to the question of financing itself, the point is that we will adapt here, so we will avoid having to pay back from the budget, but will be produced by the project. By the way, we are treating high interest rates by re-financing the current loan tranche from the market as long as there are lower interest rates on the market. As regards greenvisions and plans of all kinds and renewable energy plans and recovery calculations, I would like to give an example, and this is the current state. Currently in Hungary, where the energy mix is varied, electricity is about HUF 38 per kilowatt hour. Where nuclear power plants are closed in series and green energy is preferred and subsidised, this is Germany, there is 120 HUF. So when we talk about having a social debate, let there be a social debate. But let us also suggest to society and demonstrate that if we switch technology and try to bring in some fashionable technology, we should also ask them that they are willing to pay for it, because this is the end of it. So I kind of miss that when we're talking about solar and wind power. [[18.30]] Another question is, what if the sun doesn't shine and the wind doesn't blow? Power can't be stored, it's well-known. So, again, thank you very much for the really useful, meaningful and most of your professional conversation, and even so late Friday afternoon it was enjoyable for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-21-139	Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in five minutes, the sound of the countryside! It's called the 11th. Here you go.
u2021-05-21-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Together for the Balaton! With this title, I initiated a signature collection operation not so long ago, a month and a half ago. I spoke in advance with several civil society organisations and local governments, and we considered it together, that it should be done for Lake Balaton, because over the past few years the investments have increased, the construction projects that threaten not only the expropriation but also the ecology of Lake Balaton. I am very pleased that this initiative has inspired the government to act and has appointed a Minister for the Life of Lake Balaton, Mr Zsolt Szári. This is also a confirmation that there is work to be done at Lake Balaton. In this connection, I would like to highlight something that, I think, should definitely be an important and prioritized task of the government, and this is the supply of sewage to the municipalities around Lake Balaton. There are still settlements, there are settlements directly along Lake Balaton that I would very much like to say that this is directly in the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton, where there is no built sewer network. What does that mean? Obviously, the people living there must lead the sewage somewhere, and this is done according to the old systems into digestive pits, which are then transported from the site by snorkeling. But these are already outdated systems, and through the groundwater, the sewage can flow directly to Lake Balaton, which, of course, endangers the life of Lake Balaton. Not only is this important in terms of the sewer network around Lake Balaton, but also the one against which we have repeatedly raised our voices, so that there should not be so many apartment houses, there should not be so many hotels, because if they are built, thousands of new properties will be created directly on the shore of the water, and in these settlements around more than forty towns around Lake Balaton, these sewer networks have been built for a very long time, and we are talking about 30-40 years of pipes, so if such an extra load is added to this sewer network, then we can get to the point where there are problems with the sewer system directly along the waterfront of Lake Balaton. What pollutes Lake Balaton's water is also dangerous to wildlife, and it is dangerous to the entire ecosystem around Lake Balaton itself. Unfortunately, there is also evidence that there is cyclically or seasonally algalisation, but I have heard a terrible experience from Zamárdi that there is a beach where the whole waterfront has muddled on a level where the bathers enter Lake Balaton that can sink almost to the knees in the mud. This is the result of our not paying enough attention to the water quality of Lake Balaton, and we did not pay enough attention to preserving the ecology of Lake Balaton. So together for the Balaton! And I would very much like to stress that this is a matter above the parties. There are no pro-government swimmers here, there are no opposition swimmers, there are Hungarian swimmers here, and foreigners who will, we trust, come to Hungary after the outbreak of the coronal virus, and choose Balaton as their destination to enjoy the Balaton together, and therefore we must do it together. So I very much hope that the ministerial Commissioner, who has now been appointed, will indeed perform a task that will not serve party political interests and goals, but consider the life of Lake Balaton as the primary and most important. I also trust this because Zsolt Szári is also the CEO of Balaton Fish Management Nonprofit Zrt., so he knows the fish and the wildlife of Lake Balaton very closely. So this professional experience that you have gained there in recent years, I very much hope that you will also help us work together as Minister for Foreign Affairs. I can't stress enough that we can only save the life of Lake Balaton together, but we can only do it together. That is why I launched this initiative, which anyone can join, all Hungarians, since Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. This initiative is available on www.egyuttabalatonert.hu. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Remember: together for Lake Balaton, because Lake Balaton belongs to everyone! Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zoltán Balczó applauds.]]
u2021-05-21-141	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session will take place on 25 May 2021. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. I wish you all a good rest.
