u2021-11-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, In 2017, the National Assembly declared 9 November to be the day of the Hungarian Sign Language. The resolution highlights that the fundamental right of hearing impaired, visually impaired and deaf-blind people is the use of Hungarian sign language, which is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law of Hungary. From a linguistic point of view, sign language meets all professional criteria to be defined as an independent language. Like the voice language, sign language is not a universal form of communication, which is used equally by all deaf and overhearing people regardless of geographical or cultural conditions. Sign languages are customised and rendered inimitable by specific communities. Accordingly, Hungarian sign language is an integral part of Hungarian culture, which was transformed into the language known today by the Hungarian deaf community. The Hungarian sign language developed naturally, it has its own grammatical structure and its own vocabulary. The richness and complexity of sign language is expressed by the numerous dialects developed in Hungary, and the different age groups and groups are able to express their own subculture through sign language. For the deaf and hearing community, sign language is a means of communication and knowledge and is the basis of their identity. In this sense, our fellow citizens see themselves as a linguistic and cultural minority, and in this way they form the third most populous camp of Hungarian minority languages. Ladies and gentlemen, The CXXV was unanimously adopted by the Hungarian Parliament 12 years ago, on 9 November 2009. law on Hungarian sign language and the use of Hungarian sign language. The introductory lines of the legislation clearly state that deaf or deaf-blind people are equal and equal members of Hungarian society. Our fellow countrymen deafly perceive the surrounding world through sign language, expressing their thoughts through sign language. Today we honor their equality with the commemoration. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, asked for a pre-meeting speech with a title entitled "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-09-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, By competitiveness, we mean the quality of all the factors that determine the long-term performance of the economy, which include, among other things, productivity, the quantity and quality of human resources, technical progress, the regulatory environment, entrepreneurial attitudes, financing opportunities and social and environmental sustainability in the Hungarian National Bank's competitiveness report published last week. The report of the MNB examines the results of the Hungarian economy in this area in two dimensions, on the one hand, in comparison with the results of the European Union and the V3 countries on the other hand, and on the other hand, in relation to previous years. Two priority areas for competitiveness are the knowledge-based society and research and development and innovation. Well, in these areas, we are very far behind both the average of the European Union and the V3 countries, and unfortunately, we have failed to achieve a meaningful improvement in these areas in Hungary compared to recent years. [[9.10]] The Hungarian National Bank may remember it two years ago, because we talked about it here in the House as well as 330 points of competitiveness programme, which was a very excellent programme, including the goal of achieving 7 percent of the annual growth rate of productivity. This objective has far from been achieved in recent years, rather than catching up on productivity in the European Union, we are rather lagging behind. Productivity in 2020 was 42 euros per hour on average in the EU countries, and in Hungary it was 28 euros in pari, or only two thirds of the EU average; but if we look at the V3 countries, the average of the V3 countries is 30 euros, which means they are above us, so we are quite behind us. Another objective was for R &amp; D spending to reach 2 percent of GDP. Well, we couldn't do that either, we stayed at 1.5 percent, while there was money in the budget for all sorts of unnecessary things, from the Budapest-Belgrád railway line to the Budapest campus of Fudan University. It was also expected that life expectancy in health would reach 64 years in Hungary. I do not need to prove to you here and now how far we are from this goal, but the problem is not merely that we are far away, but that there has been no substantial change and substantial catch-up in this area in recent years. This is where the Orbán government has spent very little on health and education over the past 12 years, looking at these wallets as a sporch, from which money can always be taken out if our Prime Minister has a new hobby. Well, no, you can't do that without a ticket. The quality of human capital depends heavily on how much we spend on education and health. Without high-quality human capital, competitiveness cannot be improved. Speaking of health care, one of the recent news is that Pécs children's oncology suffers from chronic nursing deficiency. Of course, it could be said about any other rural town and any department, well, that's the way it is now. However, the Orbán government can only think of quantitative growth: the more concrete, construction activities, the more unskilled work is involved, the better people think about it. But, fellow members of the government, this economic policy has already failed once in the 1980s. Of course, I understand why you insist on this, well, obviously because the national bourgeoisie you created, NER, is built on this economic base, and it supports your political system. Therefore, our task is very simple: if we want to create a competitive economy, then we need to get rid of the Fidesz government and its NER entrepreneurs. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Sure!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-09-2	Thank you, Congressman Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-09-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I listened with great interest to your words, especially since I had done so before, and your earlier words, say, around 2010 or before, were a little different; at that time I think you saw the cause of the problem, which was a failed government between 2002 and 2010, and these memories of you are now clearly fading. Why this is so, I would not explain it, and then the voters will judge it. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] The fact is, honourable Member, that the turn of competitiveness and the assessment of Hungary's economic situation is not a matter starting with 2010. You clearly remember that you are a man of numbers, so you must remember that there was a real tragedy in Hungary with the governance of Gyurcsány-Bajna in 2006-2010 when, by the way, there was a economic activity in the world economy, so it is not true that Hungary collapsed and was on the brink of bankruptcy in 2008-2009, that it was only the point on the. Before that, when there was a economic activity in the world economy, and the V3 countries produced robust economic growth, between 0.5 and 0.4 percent in Hungary, if I remember the numbers correctly, it was economic growth, so it was virtually stagnation. This was clearly due to the impact of the failed real economy and real economic policy and monetary policy, and the V3 countries have produced the outstanding result in the years that have resulted in them taking the lead as well. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] We lost our existing competitive advantage in Hungary. After 2010, we pulled the country back from the brink of bankruptcy and took a turn in economic policy. As a result of this, the macroeconomic indicators that you have regretted are looking good, so I think there are positive signs. For example, in Europe we were able to return to our economic performance before the Crown Virus crisis as a fourth; unemployment was above 12 percent, and we were able to bring it down to nearly 3 percent. Moreover, there has also been a robust real wage increase, which is always related to competitiveness, so there has been a robust real wage increase after 2010, not only that it has deteriorated, but that our competitiveness has improved. These are, therefore, macroeconomic indicators with which it is difficult to argue and they all point in the same direction, pointing in the direction that, on the one hand, Hungary was pulled back from the brink of bankruptcy, bankruptcy, and, on the other hand, it was able to turn it into a stable, sustainable growth path in support of a competitive turnaround. [[9.20]] So now it can be said that the V4 countries are practically moving side by side. We can go into deeper analyses here, because, for example, what was done well in Slovakia in the early 2000s, the competitive advantage was spoiled by the introduction of the euro, and at the moment they seem to be lagging behind other countries, but we hope that they too will catch up as soon as possible. He mentioned the importance of human capital. I agree with you, it's important. That's why I don't understand why you've been pretending for the past year and a half that you haven't attended Parliament meetings and you haven't heard about the decisions we've made. Because in contrast to the previous crisis management that the Socialist-liberal coalition tried to carry out by extracting resources from human capital, education, the social sector, culture [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] In spite of the protests from the health department, Congressman Arató, that was exactly the case, and we were thinking contraryly. People need to be helped in a crisis situation, and through human capital, it can be done through human investment. This is why we have implemented a turnaround in higher education which, as a result, in 2021, also has the chance of spending the most on higher education in the whole of the European Union in proportion to GDP. And since he brought the question of R &amp; D here, I looked up the numbers: since 2010, we tripled the amount of R &amp; D resources I know, not enough. We would like to continue to increase these amounts, while we have made an unprecedented increase in medical wages. So the fact is that the guarantee of the competitiveness turn is Fidesz-KDNP, and that the socialist-liberal coalition before 2010 cannot return to power. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting address on the current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-11-09-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Today, I wanted to talk about the evolution of wages in relation to the minimum wage, especially in relation to public workers and public sector workers. But since today is the world adoption day since 2014, it is a very happy day, and it is very good to have it; I don't know, you know, but a smile drawn in the palm is a sign of this, so I would like to talk about adoption. I am very pleased that there has been quite a lot going on with the adoption over the past period, which has certainly been forward-looking. I know it's weird. I've been told a lot of times that opposition representatives say something that might be a compliment. But it's part of the truth, and I'm especially glad that I could be part of it. I didn't live in vain then, and I wasn't here in vain for these four years, if that's what I was able to achieve. But it is not just that, but also that we can take further steps to make adoption a natural process, and no one should look at an adopted child or an adoptive parent as a freak, since adoption is not a miracle, it is not a special event for looking up to the adoptive parent, because it is a completely natural process, as I have said. However, in order for society to accept and get to know this process properly, I think it would be necessary to have sensitive publications and even social advertisements, which may not make this situation seem so strange or a family like this. It is in the child's primary interest to get into a family as soon as possible. Of course, it is best to stay in your own family, since it is important that you grow up with your biological parents. But if, despite any help, parents are unable to raise these children, or not to give them, God, they remain orphans and enter the state system, they will be sent to foster parents. I know there's a lot of foster parents missing from the system. I think that there could be some improvement there, because their wages have been significantly lower for years, and the amount they receive each month in the purchasing market is worth less and less to raise children until their fate is resolved with satisfaction; so they are either not returned to their original families or are not adopted. I think that in order for an adopted child to be able to fit properly into a given community, it is necessary that children living in foster parents or adoptive parents even be mentioned in school, because children may not be able to handle this. I would like to ask the government to step in and take steps to help these parents, including those who want to be adopted, to take the liberty of taking action. A lot of people are very afraid of adoption. They usually get to know him through personal examples and dare to do so. Fortunately, in my environment, some have since become adoptive parents. They saw me succeed, and they thought they would too. When I started doing all this, I had a lot of questions, and I didn't find the right answers to all of them. I still think it is a pity that we no longer have to prepare for adoption, because we have learned a lot from each other and, of course, from teachers. I still think it's a mistake that this doesn't work anymore. Thank you very much, and I hope that many will remember and celebrate on this day.
u2021-11-09-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-09-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I'm glad you finally chose this topic, because it's very important. It's bad and hard for us to think about, who could grow up with our mother and father raising us, how many children her parents have because, say, they die in an accident or for some other reason, they can't raise us. Some die when the child is born or shortly thereafter. This is a disadvantage for everyone that can be replaced by almost nothing else. Therefore, it is important for a child who is not responsible for the fact that his biological parents cannot raise him, to have as little disadvantage as possible. Obviously, it's a disadvantage in life, and you can't deny it. It's a very big loss emotionally, existentially, and in every way. That is why it is important to create a system that can reduce this problem as much as possible. This has really been a topic in recent years in which we have been able to agree. We also sat down with the Congresswoman and tried to include her proposals in the legislative amendments. This was a topic where we could all make sure that as many children as possible grew up, despite the fact that his biological parents could not raise him, as if he were raised by the biological parents. That is why this amendment was important, which has many details about speeding up the procedure. Here, too, were the proposals made by the congresswoman, by other professional civil society organisations engaged in adoption, and, obviously, by proposals from everyday practice, so that the waiting time would be reduced, the different courses of education that would help future adoptive parents to have children should take place as quickly as possible. And if the child is obviously not in contact with his biological parents, then this procedure should start as soon as possible, and there is no need to expect him to send two Messenger messages to the child in the next six months, and it can be adopted or not if he is not actually looked at and the child is in state care. This is why we have also managed to increase the number of adoptions in recent years. In 2010, much less children were adopted before the legislative amendments, 735 in a year, and 1052 children in a year after the amendment found new parents and new families. For the first time in 2019, the number of adopted children exceeded 1052, as I said, the number of children who were adopted in that year, which was 1004 children. So more people could have found a new family than the authorities said we had to find new parents. So this has been a very positive process in recent years, and I really thank everyone for their contribution from all sides, helping more and more children to find new families. The congresswoman also mentioned foster care. It is important that a foster parent's profession has been an employment relationship since 2014. [[9.30]] This brings a great deal of added value: with the use of ged, travel discounts, foster care as a special benefit, and there are even more consequences, but most importantly, the income of the majority of foster parents increased 3-5 times as a result in this way, over a decade. If you care for a child as a foster parent, you received a net allowance of around HUF 15,000 in 2010, now you will receive a gross allowance of HUF 83 700. And if one takes care of three children many times in foster parents, as is often the case with more than one child, a net fee of HUF 45 thousand for three children, and now a gross fee of HUF 150 660 for this. It is also due to this, obviously not only to financial benefits but also to what you said, to awareness-raising campaigns, in which you are right to start as many of them as possible, because the future of children is greatly influenced by the fact that they are able to be in a loving family environment six months later or half a year earlier, but the legislative changes, the additional benefits, obviously the kind of awareness-raising that has happened in several ways, also due to the fact that almost 90 percent of children under 12 years of age are already in foster care. Obviously, it's best to have everyone raised by their biological parents. If that is not the case, then adoption is very important, and until there is no adoption or adoption, and foster care is the safest in those, and obviously there will always be a percentage of those who are not in foster care, because they need institutional care because of some disability. So I think that, as a very important result, we have achieved that, indeed, 90 percent of children under the age of 12 are already in foster care. Thank you again for your speech. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. At the same time, Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK, also spoke before the agenda, with the title "Actual Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-09-9	Hardly Doubtful That It Is A Noble Purpose [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Mr President,]] Mr. Congressman Nacsa, across the border. Finding talented young Hungarians across the border, helping them, supporting their relationships. These are truly noble goals, and you speak very often here in Parliament about such and similar noble goals. And then we usually find out what's real behind the noble goals, the beautiful words. For although these are noble goals, and for noble purposes the Foundation for Hungarian Talent has been established without limit, in reality somehow its operation does not reflect these noble goals. It turned out from the press's fact-finding work that the vast part of the funding received by the foundation was a property, as it were, in fact, used to buy a villa in Buda, and that, by the way, a large-value car was purchased by the head of the foundation. But so far, it's not a parliamentary matter, so far it's not a fidesz case, and it's not a political matter. It becomes a fidesz business when we look at the characters when we look at the relatives of the speaker's chief of staff in the villa. If we learn that he is also a member of the Speaker's staff, who is the chairman of this board and who makes the decisions, and who, by the way, receives a high-value passenger car as he openly tells us in exchange for this activity. This case will also become a fidesz case if we look at the donor who donated to this foundation. It's a Chinese businessman who's been awarded a high state medal on the suggestion of Mr. Speaker, and who, apparently, has been shown to be entranced and friendly with the leaders of Fidesz. From this point on, it is even possible to ask whether the donor knew, when he donated, that the amount he offered on paper for this noble purpose would not go to Hungarian young people across the border in the first place, but rather to a narrow fidesz circle. And from here on out, this story is very typical of you. You like to lecture everyone in this country. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: No, you don't.]] They like to tell us what it's like to be a family, they like to tell you how to raise our children, they like to tell you what a good Christian life is, and they also like to tell you who the real patriot is, and how to think about Hungarians across the border. Then, when we look at the reality, it turns out to you that these are just slogans, camouflages on which they are taking action to serve different material interests and different political interests. What you're doing is pure hypocrisy. The reality of your family ideals was shown in the Borkai case. The reality of your voices and views on the freedom of love and Christian values was shown in the Szájer case. And the reality of their speeches on Hungarians across the border is shown in this case. This case has criminal implications. These will be investigated by a report... Or maybe he's right, let's not prejudicate, he could have criminal implications. There has been a complaint in this case, which will be investigated by the authorities; if not now, after the change of government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It'll be over by then.]] But there are other aspects. Mr Speaker, who is very happy to instruct opposition representatives what they are free to say and what they should not say, who here in this House is punishing millions of people for inappropriate conduct, I mean, because of inappropriate conduct, who is interviewing the opposition's depravity, when will he speak in this matter? We're waiting for your opinion, we're waiting for you to tell us what she thinks about this case, and she thinks it's acceptable. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will respond.
u2021-11-09-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It has already been mentioned on yesterday's parliamentary day on the case of the Foundation, where we have made it clear on several occasions that the Foundation operates exclusively from private donations, functions as a private foundation and does not manage or manage any public money, and consequently the government has no jurisdiction in this matter. Therefore, if anyone has information on the functioning of the Foundation, they should contact the competent authorities, the legal oversight bodies, and they will investigate the information they have come to know. By the way, if I may, I would also respond to what you said about Hungarians across the border as a representative of the Democratic Coalition, because this is the chimborasso of hypocrisy in my opinion. So that you are the representative of the party, the representative of the political force that has, in fact, been returning, repeatedly, since the 1990s, constantly campaigning against our Hungarian fellow nations across the border. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] He pursues an active policy as the only opposition party, because by now the other opposition parties have turned this volume down or do not want to take a stand on this, or sometimes we hear some Members speak positively on national policy issues, but you, or Ferenc Gyurcsány, or your party, are an exception. So this political consensus, which appeared to be formed in Hungary in connection with the support of Hungarians beyond the border, you deny and continue to pursue the policy of which one of the saddest chapters of which, by the way, one of the saddest chapters of the Hungarian political history after the regime change is the issue of the 2004 referendum, in which you openly campaigned against our fellow Hungarian nations. They said and your position was that they were not part of the Hungarian nation, no solidarity, no community, no responsibility to the Hungarians in the mother country, against the Hungarians across the border. [[9.40]] You are proud of this campaign, and you have continued this campaign from time to time, and the national policy actions that have been taken since 2010, some of which have also been in the form of legislative proposals before the House, have not been supported. They do not support the access to citizenship of Hungarians across borders, so they do not support the unification of public law; they do not support access to suffrage or, if you look at the numbers, you can see how important the issue of Hungarians beyond the border was between 2002 and 2010. It wasn't a year if I remember the statistics correctly that more than a billion forints were spent on supporting Hungarians across the border overall for all cross-border areas. Now we can tell you that there is no year when this grant amount is below HUF 100 billion. So the amount that you wanted to spend on the same purpose is 100 times the amount that you have invested in supporting Hungarians across the border. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] So that's a good sign of the hypocrisy that's been fried, fried through your speech. You are not interested in the issue of Hungarians across the border at all. They are trying to hold on to certain issues; they are trying to hold on, because their support is not as it should be, and therefore they want to use political capital from the question of Hungarians across the border. But we definitely refuse to do so. I think that the Hungarian nation does not need us to turn Hungarian people against Hungarian people, but, on the contrary, we should strengthen national cohesion and that is why all political forces, regardless of their political affiliation, should work. Moreover, this case is also particularly pathetic in the sense that it is quite clear that I would like to divert attention from the tumultuous problem of preparing the sale of City Hall. [[Gergely Harvestó: From where?]] From there, I'd like to draw attention from it. They did it before 2010. They tried to sell or steal for you these two are the same [[Gergely Harvesting: You're starting out on your own! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Subway 4. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] anything that could be moved, even anything that could not be moved. And they're doing the same thing at City Hall where they went back in 2019. We're not gonna let that happen. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-09-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda, with the title: "Ongoing issues." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-11-09-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, On July 25, 1978, the first flask baby was born in the world, who is now more than 43 years old; in Hungary on August 24, 1988, the first Hungarian flask baby is more than 33 years old. I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, drew attention to the importance of adoption, because it is the last opportunity for anyone who cannot have children in any way. But a person who has a health problem and can be treated can, at the very least, participate in a flask program. After 2019, the government has changed the system of flask treatments to a large extent, and we can say that not only in the world, but also in Hungary, one of the biggest challenges is how we will deal with population loss and population loss. The profession was stunned, and the people involved themselves, before the government tried to transform it in this way, reaching into this system. In Hungary, it was possible to use flask treatment and insemination treatments in public institutions and private institutions before 2019 or before 2020. To date, neither the profession, the stakeholders nor the politicians have responded to the reason for this drastic intervention. Yes, we know that in the government's communications, he says that there have been abuses in private clinics, although they have not been able to support it with one document. I would also like to add that to state that only in private care and this in Hungary have found abuse of any sector of the institutional system, I believe that it is a great lie. I still don't get answers to my questions. Whatever question I'm about to submit, we can also observe that if you want to send positive answers to politicians, opposition politicians, Katalin Novak's wallet will answer, the Minister for Families, Minister without a wallet. And if you ask a difficult question and try to avoid answering, then I get the answers from EMMI, Bence Rétvári, as we can see now that there are no state ministers from the Ministry of Family Affairs here. But I would like to know at last, Mr Secretary, that you are answering my question because I have been asking for years how the government and its institutions have a reporting obligation, which is prescribed by law. And I now say this not only as a politician, but also as researchers, professionals and the management of the KSH itself have acknowledged that since 2014 there has been no report in Hungary that would include what data on human reproductive procedures contains. If your transformation were successful, then I think that this is how we would be levitated here in Parliament, so that, Madam Congresswoman, here is the report, with so many children born, we have achieved the result. I do not understand why, since 2014, this legal obligation has not been respected. The second is that they keep communicating that the process of flask treatments has become free in Hungary. But you don't talk about the fact that I've experienced a very long process of this on my own until you get to the point where you actually find out why you can't have a child, that you can't get pregnant, and on this long journey, a couple has to go through a lot of tests. Dear fellow Members and Undersecretary of State, Lords! Well, here's the dog buried. No one will give the answer that it could cost a couple hundreds of thousands of forints in Hungary today, until it gets this far, because they know that if we want to use certain tests in the state system, we may have to wait long or long months in this case too. And that's exactly the biggest problem if a couple of fertility treatments run into this. Because, you know, the biggest enemy of couples undergoing fertility treatments is time and especially a woman. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, since he's here, Bence Rétvári, and I think he's going to answer you when you'll be willing to answer at least one question when opposition politician asks questions, because I think that regardless of whether or not [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are on opposite sides, both of us very much want the flask program to succeed in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-09-14	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2021-11-09-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that if we talk to younger or not so young couples these days, then we all have a couple among our acquaintances who really have fertility problems; who really want to have a child, they don't get together for months, even years. They start seeing a doctor about why. Whether the future father, future mother, or both, or the two of them, has a problem, and very often they do find that fertility treatment is really necessary to give birth to their child. It's a very difficult process. It's not just medically difficult, but it's hard to deal with it humanly, to talk about it, to talk about it among ourselves. It's also a very serious psychological burden for every single couple who wants to have a baby. Therefore, it is a very important obligation for the state that those who want to have children so badly should be able to remove these obstacles, which are health barriers here. That's what we've been trying to do all these years. This effort, this intention, was not so clear earlier. You may remember a Minister of Health, Ágnes Horváth, who has made an angry outburst against the private health institutions involved in the flask baby program, especially when he said that if there is 50 percent success in Europe, so that every second intervention is successful and that there is a child born of it, why not in Hungary, then why can't they do this in Hungary? [[9.50]] This would have meant that he would have reduced the number of free interventions. At the time, it was, then, that he could take a couple of five interventions, five attempts at fertilization, and this would have been reduced to two or half of them, because every second should succeed in Hungary if it were possible in Europe. So that wasn't the direction. I'm very glad you're in a different direction than Ágnes Horváth. Unfortunately, he didn't ask for your opinion when he made those kinds of statements. What have we done, honourable Member? We said that all capacity limits should be abolished here. So there is no limit to this, no kind of funding framework, which would be limited to helping prospective parents to have their child. This was one of the first important measures. Our second measure was to eliminate the fact that any medication that would have to be used during treatment should be supported by prospective parents. We've made all these treatments free. Perhaps the most important step was to increase the number of these interventions. As I said, it could have taken a few five interventions in the past, according to the new rule, the first child can use five interventions for free, with 100% funding from social security, so both the cost of treatment and the cost of medicines are fully covered by social security, and then, if the child is born, the additional children can have four or four additional interventions. So in the case of three children, this could mean up to 13 interventions instead of the previous five, which is a much higher number, honourable Member. We also provided additional resources. If I look at the past year alone, we have provided a surplus of HUF 5 billion to enable every desired child to be born. It is also very important that from this year onwards, future parents can go to 12 centres and ask them to start the interventions. We have therefore sought, honourable Member, in recent years, to have as much intervention as possible, to have neither the health institution nor the family as a limit to attempts to intervene, in fact, as much as they do. We've secured additional resources. We have brought public care closer to everyone by using these treatments not only in Budapest but also in an increasing number of rural locations. And as I was saying, we've abolished any kind of fee that you might even have to pay to buy drugs. I'm hoping everyone will see that this way you'll be much more able to get help from a barren couple. Unfortunately, what is expected in the future is that more and more couples will have such problems at a later age, so more and more people will have to be helped, so we decided to change a radical one here, and we will give much more help to couples with fertility problems, because it is likely that in the coming years we will need more help. We hope that this will help a lot of people to have a big dream, a child of their own, and a family of their own. I also ask your support for this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik also applied for a speech before the agenda:. What is the Government waiting for? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-09-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear members of the Government and of the Government, Fuel prices have been rising for over a month. At the same time, the price of food, the price of building materials, the price of furnishings, is constantly rising, and you no longer know what to mention here in a speech, what it might be for you to pass the threshold. You made a number of statements in 2004-2005 on what steps are needed to curb the price of fuels. For example, they said that if it reaches the psychological limit of $40, it is necessary to intervene immediately. I'm reporting, now it's over $80, and according to prognostication, it could be up to $120. They always claim that the world market price for oil is taking it up. Obviously, this is the case, but let us not forget that, in terms of fuel prices in Hungary, we have to say that half of them are taxes. They also said that if the price of fuels goes above HUF 250, drastic measures must be taken, as this state is obviously winning, and therefore a tax reduction is required. Viktor Orbán himself said that. It is now well over 500 forints, and we can even say that there is no well in the country that can be filled under 500 forints, and we do not know where it ends. More than a month ago, I asked you to do this, and I submitted a proposal for a decision to help you go to work, to help those workers who drive this road every day; at present you can get 15 forints tax-free from the employer per kilometer, which is raised to 30 forints. As I said, I have tabled a proposal for a resolution on this, and you voted unanimously against it at the committee meeting. We asked them to freeze the fuel prices. And they said it couldn't be done. Gentlemen, come on, you can do this. Well, Croatia did! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: A month ago!]] Believe me, Congressman Nacsa, if you look out a little, you should know that Croatia did. They also say that fuels are expensive everywhere in Europe, and we do, and we have to agree with that, but not everywhere with weak Hungarian forints. The average earnings: According to KSH data, the net net earnings are HUF 298,000. Don't sound like that in the countryside, by the way. I'm just saying, it's really upsetting for the rural population, especially the small villagers, because a family doesn't have that kind of money. But let's stick to the KSH data: 298 thousand forints. You called it the lab in Austria 986 thousand forints. So if in Austria, where the fuel price is the same as in Hungary, it is said that it has gone up by 3 or even 5 cents, the Austrians and the Germans or any other Western European country will probably be annoyed, but they will not be impossible. But we're about to be made impossible. It can therefore be said that fuel prices have also caught up with European prices, caught up with the European Union, but the problem is that wages have not caught up. What's caught up is inflation and VAT. In Hungary, VAT is the highest in the countries of the European Union. And we can say of VAT that we have world record VAT. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State. We've launched a petition to freeze fuel prices because fuel prices can be frozen. We have a decision to freeze fuel prices because fuel prices can be frozen. At the same time, and as long as the freezing is still alive, turn to the European Commission; initiate negotiations on both excise duty and VAT, and even, if necessary, on this subject, fight freedom fights, and nothing else, so that VAT or excise duty, or both, can be reduced, thereby reducing the price of fuel. They say this could lead to distortions of competition. Come on, please. Does the fact that the average wage in Hungary is the lowest in the European Union not lead to distortions of competition? The fact that, in the past month and a half, every media has shown the burden of rising fuel prices to the public, except in the public media, which the state has held from more than HUF 100 billion, does this not lead to distortions of competition? Yes, you can. I need a will. And, please, do not refer to the fact that in the future, they are still monitoring the increase in fuel prices. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Because it's the population who's watching and watching what you're doing. It's time to act! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-09-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2021-11-09-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry you didn't take what you said yesterday into account. We've had this before. The government considers it important that, in the midst of the economic difficulties that have arisen due to the epidemic, it is in different ways to give a helping hand to many social groups in Hungary, the elderly, the young, the middle-aged, the families, the singles. That is why a decision has been taken on family tax refunds, minimum wage increases, expansion of the home-building programme, pension premium, 13th month pension reimbursement, and I could mention the wage-raising programmes: raising the wages of law enforcement workers, nurses, raising the wages of doctors; perhaps I mentioned the minimum wage. I find Jobbik's initiative extremely unreliable. Why is that? That's because you've come together, and you've got a Prime Minister's candidate, and we're starting from the fact that if there's a joint political team that has a joint Prime Minister's candidate, then that's what this joint Prime Minister's candidate is saying. [[10.00]] It is quite clear what he thinks of this issue, I am talking about Péter Márki-Zay. He says that in the matter of the petrol price in which you have launched a petition, he does not support any social component. None! He also says that what a good example is that in other countries where fuel prices have gone up, car use has been shared together, because they have thus reduced the use of cars, and what a good effect it has on life. [[To the lines of Jobbik:]] If you have time between two selfies, because it's an important issue... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, because we're talking about energy prices, and you're self-indulgent, while it concerns all of us' livelihoods and all our Hungarian livelihoods. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "We're alive, don't worry about it." Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Please listen, because you basically define the scope of the left on this issue. Your candidate for Prime Minister also said that he did not intend to stop world market prices at the border. Do you understand? ! It's not a purpose. He's been appointed Prime Minister. He also said that the price regulation you demand is a communist idea. And if we're not just talking about gas prices, I suggest that you do. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] I'm sorry, Congressman, you've joined this company. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Two days ago, in a video, he confirmed that if it was up to him, the reduction in the rent would be abolished in his current form. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] And then you come along and you say you'd be fighting all kinds of petitions against price increases. It's completely frivolous. I'm sorry, Congressman. As for the Austro-sitting, there was no communism in Austria for 40 years. Jobbik from a few years ago knew that very well. After that, reference to Austria is as hypocritical as the house. As far as wages are concerned, real wages in Hungary increased by 70 percent under the current government. For a minute, we do not claim that wages are where they should be, that further increases are needed, and we want to increase this by tax reductions and job creation. [[Constant interventions from Jobbik, including Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi: Improving the quality of life!]] Honourable Congressman, There is one more important thing I would like to say here because it affects the lives of many people who live in your constituency. You will be running on Mátraalya as a candidate for representative, who will support Péter Márki-Zay as a candidate for Prime Minister. Péter Márki-Zay made it clear a few days ago that he would close the Mátra Power Plant. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Cries from Jobbik, including Róbert Dudás: What did Ader say?]] The power plant that is the largest employer in the region, along with its suppliers, provides jobs for 5,000 people. [[Robert Honkers: Don't tell me. You don't have to read it, I know.]] Then comes Péter Márki-Zay and declares that the power plant is not worth operating [[Cries from Jobbik, including Róbert Dudás: What did Áder say in Glasgow? That we're going to shut down the Matra Force! Whose man is Ader? Who? The Marquis-Zay? Is Ader a man of Marqui-Zay? György Szilágyi: Oops! The president's ringing the bell.]] And it will be his government's job to find work for the people who work here. So you'd dump people, put people on the streets in the same insensitive way you put hundreds of thousands on the streets before 2010. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Honourable Congressman, The story of the Mátra power plant alone tells everything about left-wing politics. This power plant was privatized by a former left-wing government. How much? 13 billion forints. The foreign owner didn't develop, there were layoffs, and by the way, it affected my family, and do you know how much dividends were taken out in the process? 101 billion. The foreign owner; not the Hungarian owner, the foreign owner. And it took many years for this power plant to be reclaimed into Hungarian property. It is now state-owned, thus strengthening a strategic industry and securing Hungarian jobs, and as long as this government is in office, it will remain so. So, Your Honour, please. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Give a message to your joint Prime Minister candidate: Hands off the Mátra Power Plant! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Fury, uproar, interrogation from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-11-09-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Dömötör. I would like to draw the attention of Congressman Dudás that his yelling does not come through the screen, so he was yelling completely unnecessarily. Vice-President János Latorcai, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2021-11-09-21	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Exactly 24 years ago, more than half a century after his martyrdom, II. Pope John Paul at St. Peter's Square in Rome blessed Bishop Vilmos Apor with martyrdom. CHAPTER XX The martyrdom of one of the most improbable members of the Hungarian Catholic Church of the century, facing Nazism and communism, brought all that a true Hungarian could have done in XX. During the age of the century. The fate of Vilmos Apor, a family of Transylvanians, is united with the tragic history of our nation. Your service begins in Gyula, XIII. By putting Pope Leo's social teachings into practice, he helped the poor, the sick, and healed the physical and spiritual wounds. As the leader of the souls, he sought to develop the soul power that vanquished all, to establish discipline and love of justice in the community entrusted to him. In this extraordinary international and internal political situation, there was a huge need, as he witnessed and unfortunately suffered the rise of dictatorships that challenged man's fundamental values. He felt deeply the responsibility of the church, and, in particular, after his dedication to the bishop of 1941, he also made continuous efforts to save the Hungarian Jewish community. After the German occupation of Hungary and the Sagittarius takeover, he stood up for the persecuted regardless of denomination and ethnicity. He hid some of the visitors or sent them to Angelo Rotta's nuncius or sister, Apor Gizella, who led the Hungarian Red Cross. In the meantime, he also had the power to defend the Catholic social movement, from which the Democratic People's Party led by Barankovics could later be formed. During the siege of Győr, he took in all those fleeing, so that hundreds could find refuge in the cellars of Bishop's Castle. In preparation for everything, Győr's going as a bishop was then his famous saying: one must die anyway, rather than give your life at this time. This event also took place, on March 30, 1945, after refusing to release the women who fled to his residence to the rallying Soviet soldiers, one of them wounded him to death during a struggle. On 2 April, he returned to his Creator on Monday, knowing that by his heroic sacrifice of life he had protected those in his care, he fulfilled his service through sacrifice, life sacrifice, martyrdom. Ladies and gentlemen, With Vilmos Apor's body, he protected not only the women who sought his protection, but symbolically all that was left by 1945 from the then 950-year-old Christian Hungary. The barbaric destruction and then the forced red dictatorship did everything in their power to wipe this idea out of the heart of Hungarians. And indeed, it took many decades for our country to have a government that, relying on Christian values, seeks to shape the future of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past ten years, based on what has been stated in the Fundamental Law, many decisions have been made to implement the Christian ideal in Europe, which in many cases have knocked out the safeguards in the circles of the Western European intellectual elite. The answer wasn't missing either. They almost declared war. Today, they are no longer knocking on the doors of churches and schools with weapons, but by the violent spread of new left-wing pseudo-scientific ideas like scientific socialism and the acquisition of spiritual, cultural hegemony. It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to try to stop him, drawing strength from Vilmos Apor's life course and testimony. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] anti - Christian spiritual currents to protect our nation's 1,000 - year - old Christian heritage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.10]]
u2021-11-09-22	Thank you very much, Vice President Latorcai. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will respond to what has been said.
u2021-11-09-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Sadly, we can say that perhaps the most devastating century in human history was XX. century, this century was marked by horror. For decades, either Nazism or communism destroyed; it caused many, many sufferings, sacrifices, destruction of nations. But at the same time, a period like this always shows that there are brave heroes, there are martyrs who know and have sacrificed their lives for others, who have stood up for all those who have been oppressed, whom they might have wanted to destroy. During this century, he has been many, many of these heroes and martyrs in Hungarian history. We can list Cardinal József Mindszenty with a happy memory or János Esterházy, and, like you said, Vilmos Happy Apor, they also fought against Nazism with Vilmos Apor, because, as you said, he did hide people from Nazism or flee through the Holy See. On the other hand, they raised their voice, as did Vilmos Apor, against the horrors of communism, and for the sake of the victims. And the other thing that may characterize him and our two happy-memorial heroes is their social sensitivity. Despite the fact that all of them lived in wealth and wealth, they carried the social teaching of the church and through it the misery of the people in their hearts. Accordingly, many steps have been taken, including Vilmos Apor, which is certainly important, and it is also a message to today how much attention should be paid to those who may live in poorer living conditions. Nevertheless, the bishop of the people was named Vilmos Apor himself for a reason, for he practiced all these virtues, and, as you said, until his death, the martyr's death, and the martyr's death, he defended all those whom God had entrusted to him. What is certainly a lesson from this day of memory is how this period has passed. The Communists wanted to listen to Vilmos Apor's story, and when you think about it, you didn't hear much about it. Obviously, the Győrians knew his story, and apparently many people in the church and relatives knew his story, but they couldn't talk about it, they couldn't visit his grave, at least in large crowds, and of course, his memory couldn't be cherished year after year. Why did all this happen? And then let me tell you another date here, since I have already had the opportunity to do so, and this is the anniversary of November 7, the so-called Great Socialist Revolution in October. At the time, they also lied about why the socialist revolution in October should be celebrated on 7 November. They forgot to tell me there were two types of calendars, because that sounded so funny back in the day. But what wasn't funny was that during all these ideologies, and I'm talking mostly about communism, 100 million victims have been taken all over the world by this ideology and destroyed nation and people. And it wasn't funny how he destroyed churches or civil communities, but any other community who tried to draw close to each other without knowing that communist ideology was the most important thing for them. And that's why I think it's very important for us to reject all kinds of neomarxist ideologies in this period of life that go towards the destruction of people, because it is also devastating to destroy souls. It also destroys people, nations, countries. Some of the current neomarxist ideologies are going in this direction, because the - let's say poison-green ideology, with which they tried to force a lot of things on some nations and even on Germany, the most powerful country in Western Europe, could lead to incredible poverty, such as [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As gender and LGBTQ ideology force the souls, the souls of our children, the messages that are completely unacceptable. That's why William Apor [[The president's ringing again.]] We must preserve his memory so that we know what this ideology means. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-09-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I am somewhat sorry that my fellow Balliberal Members are not present in this Chamber, because actually, although the genre would not allow it, the question, the matter with which I would address the Honourable Parliament, would actually speak to them. In recent days, the news of the city's Balliberal leadership allegedly selling the City Hall building, which is not only a building of considerable value, but also a monument protection. [[Lőrinc Nacsa to Tamás Mellar, leaving the room: Dialogue goes out...]] In fact, around the house of the left-wing town, we could say that there is no new under the sun, no longer a longer period of time without some suspicious matter or some corruption-suspecting case coming to light. Let's just remember last year's BKV bus rental case, which also reeked of corruption, and according to the information, is currently under investigation. By the way, the mayor, speaking of the City Hall, is not his first hair-fearing idea: public park, community space, but he has already had the idea of creating a gay bar in the municipality, I would not want to continue the idea. Unfortunately, the case is much sadder than that. It is clear that the business circles close to the left-wing coalition leading to the capital have already taken the first steps towards the sale of City Hall. What has come to light, what we know at the moment, is that the Northern Rock Ltd., owned by Zsolt Berki, is owned by Zsolt Berki. He entrusted Beák and Partners with the sale of the City Hall. According to the contract, €1.150 million, or more than HUF 400 million, would be charged to the real estate broker for a successful sale. The owner Attila Endre Beák is not an unknown name on the real estate market, so his name should be taken relatively seriously, and interestingly one of his most well-known real estate cases was the MSZP II. It is the case of the sale of Pope John Paul's headquarters in the square or former Republic Square, so the colleague cannot be accused of having a good balliberal relationship. The public contract also provides for a purchase price of EUR 100 million for the City Hall owned by the capital, which would also pay a relatively large brokerage fee of HUF 400 million. The case therefore raises a number of questions, and what is most strange is that there is a misconception on the part of the capital right now. The Mayor claims that no decision has been made on the sale of real estate, but that a document which seems to prove otherwise has been made public. So the question for his poets is that there might be a case for someone to negotiate the sale of the City Hall building without the Mayor's knowledge. Knowing the Balliberal background of the capital, we might as well bet on that. The least I could do would be to get Gergely Christmas to clear the air. And why the suspicion lawsuit lives, why the story is so valid, it is worth mentioning here that this would not be the first thing that the Balliberal site, which controls the capital now, sold: Antenna Hungária, Bábolna, Bakonyi Power, Budapest Bank shares, Demasz, Dégas, Égaz, Tigaz, Dunaferr, Dunament Power, Ferihegy Airport, FHB Bank, Capital Gas Works, and what was sold by Balliberals for a long time, up to the National Book Publisher. [[10.20]] So unfortunately, this line would include Budapest City Hall. The current government, on the other hand, has been working ever since to recover these national assets and never sell them again. The Balliberal City Council promised us transparency two years ago, and what did we get instead? Unfortunate and suspicious cases. We want to clarify what is going on in the capital with the Budapest City Hall. We're waiting for clarification. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2021-11-09-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Human memory, and I have to say, social memory today is like to forget bad, and, as we say, distance, time makes a lot of things beautiful. Therefore, thank you specifically for bringing this subject here. For my part, I would like to respect the questions of competence and competence of the Metropolitan Assembly, so in detail, with your permission, I will not deal with that. I am convinced that the Fidesz-KDNP fraction in the capital will take a position and deal with this with sufficient depth, sharpness and determination. However, what I would like to respond to in my answer is the basic position that you have said in relation to a liberal-left-wing asset management and a view of wealth. Over the past decades, we have seen several waves of the fact that, either by reference to the social changes arising from the change of regime or by reference to very daily financial needs, left-wing governments have sold everything unscrupulously! what is necessary for the functioning of the Hungarian economy and, through it, the Hungarian society. It was misplaced, sold the economic elements of which it was one, so that they could not be replaced by anyone else, sold the strategic elements of which you listed most of them. By this I mean power plants, mines were closed, electricity and gas suppliers were sold, gas reservoirs were sold, significant elements of the banking system needed for the operation of the economy were sold. They sold everything they found a buyer for. Fidesz and KDNP first declared in 1998 and then in 2010 that the privatisation referring to social policy purposes was over, and state wealth management is only possible on the basis of economic arguments, with a view to increasing state wealth. Now, let's see what it was, just as an example, to refresh the memory, the weary memory mentioned in the introduction. In addition to the large set of energy, banking, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications, mechanical engineering, I would like to mention some of the things that we may be talking about less often: the lowland grain industry, meat companies, the Golden Spider, so the retail trade included, for example, the Balaton Füssére and the other trade networks that determine the supply of the population, the large chemical factories, TVK, BVK, Domus, pharmaceutical companies, Graboplast, Globus, the canning industry, the food industry. Please bear in mind that 11 out of 12 sugar factories have been privatised and closed and have sold not only assets but also markets primarily to these future owners. A very significant part of this privatisation has played a significant part of the Hungarian strategic economic assets into foreign hands, and a small part of it has gone into national circles that are perhaps the loudest protesters today and speak against conscious state wealth management. In order to recall not only the past, but also the recent one, these classic lists do not include the Privatized MÁV Cargo after 2002, so the freight transport sector of MÁV, and there is no Ferihegy, Hungary's only international airport, which has also been privatized. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In contrast, what have we done? We bought back the widest possible range of these and restored them to the service of Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy. Thank you for your questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-28	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, A speech by Mrs Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria, Speaker of the Polish Nationalities, will now take place before the agenda, for a period of five minutes: the Day of Polish Independence. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-11-09-29	Szanowny Panie Marszałku, szanowni posłowie, szanowni rzecznicy, witam wszystkich bardzo serdecznie. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear Speakers, Welcome, everyone. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak on 11 November 1918, on the Polish state holiday, which, after 123 years of age, commemorates the rebirth of the country. Due to the epidemic situation, in 2020 and 2021, the celebration of the Polish-Hungarian day of friendship on 23 March was unfortunately cancelled. However, the Hungarian and Polish festivals of this autumn period also recall friendship and parallels between the two peoples. From Poland's reconstruction in 1918, I also recall the Battle of Warsaw on 15 August 1920, during which important role was played in the history-forming power of Polish-Hungarian friendship in the successful defense of the newly acquired Polish statehood. In the summer of 1920, Hungary, severely mutilated in all respects, sent a vital shipment of ammunition to Poland to protect Warsaw and win the war against the Soviet Union. The miracle occurred on the day of the Lady of Nagyboldog, on 15 August, because the Poles believe that their country, just like Hungary, is under the protection of Our Lady. This is where the idea came from to organize a Polish-Hungarian prayer tour in Hungary in 2020-2021, during which a copy of the Black Madonna of częstochowa visited Hungary, covering 45 locations. We experienced Polish-Hungarian friendship everywhere. Turning to 1956: the first manifestations of the revolution during the summer are related to Poland, Poznań. Due to its spill-over effects, Gomułka took over the country to march the protesting Hungarian university students to the statue of the Polish Abbot Bem in Budapest on 23 October as a result of his speech on 20 October. I prefer to emphasize the human side of these events. For example, when the Soviet Union smothered the Hungarians' struggle for freedom, the Poles were the first in the world to react spontaneously: they gave blood, collected money and other donations, and the children gathered toys for Hungarian children. Finally, let me briefly quote from a speech by Józef Piłsudski, the great figure of Polish state rebirth: [[10.30]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Poles have not previously sought fame in conquests and oppression of other nationalities, and they are now seeking to establish relationships with everyone on the basis of the principles of truth and fairness. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It was just last week that the International Conference on the Conservation and Transfer of Nationalities in Hungary, organized by the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office for Church and Nationality Relations, took place in Budapest, where I had the pleasure to attend. I can tell you that today's Hungary is dealing with its own nationalities in the spirit of Piłsudski's speech. In this context, we would like to thank you for the government's support for the renovation of the Polish church in recent years, the renovation and expansion of the seat of the Bem and the St. Adalbert Association and the National Polish Municipality, and the establishment of the Balatonboglár educational centre. Today it is good to be a nationality citizen in Hungary, to enjoy special moral and material support, cultural autonomy, and to experience the love of Hungarians as Poles. Thank you for your attention. Dziekuję za uwagę. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-30	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to speak on behalf of the Government.
u2021-11-09-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker Woman, First of all, I thank you, as well as the Hungarian Poles, for the perseverance and fidelity with which they preserve their polishness, on the one hand, and the Hungarian nation on the other. You are part of the Hungarian nation, but also part of the Polish nation, whose unique history, i.e. the unique history of the two countries, causes many people to be incomprehensible, and many do not understand that after many storms in history, there are two other nations that stick together. In any case, it is worth highlighting the cooperation of the reign of the Jagello House in Polish-Hungarian relations, or the assistance in various freedom fights, even if we were not at one time side. At one time we fought against each other, at least in other alliances, but the two nations found a way to help even at the time when such a historic event occurred. And the same is what you mentioned, during the period of the Second World War, Hungary received and helped a multitude of Polish refugees, while others, if any, showed them closed gates, and in any case during the revolution of 56 which you mentioned, Polish blood actually came to Hungarians, so perhaps figuratively, in fact, it was completely united. And I must also say that all these cooperations and historical periods have an impact on today's era. It is very important to emphasise what you have said, that the Polish community is present in many areas in Hungary, although not so large in the 2011 census, 7 thousand people have declared themselves Polish in Hungary, but it is important that the struggle of the 7 thousand people that appears in the fields of religion, the church, culture and education, and certainly in the area of local government. In the area of local government, besides the National Polish Municipality, it is worth noting that there is a large area for the Poles in Budapest, and there are 45 local self-governments, and this community maintains a public educational institution and two cultural institutions. Thank you very much, and you can certainly count on us in the future, to continue with the increased support. And you can count on us in the same way that you initiated, and we consider it very good, the investment of the Polish educational centre in Balatonboglár, because it was symbolic that this building was chosen there. We know very well the role of Balatonboglar in the interests and lives of Poland, and for this reason it is important that it will serve as a pilgrimage place for the Poles, not only an educational centre, but also a summer holiday for young people, or a place of rest. I must say that when you talk about church relations, it is important to renovate churches, to strengthen common pilgrimages, and it was important to build a sad location in Balatonszentgyörgy, where 20 Polish pilgrims died on their way to Medjugorje in 2002, and the renewal of this, the placement of a new statue of Our Lady, will certainly help, I think, the spiritual bond, which is at least as much necessary. Just as it was necessary to present the statue of Cardinal József Mindszenty, in which Mr. Vice-President, Mr. President, took part, and a wonderful work came to the Basilica of Divine Mercy, Krakow. Thank you so much for this opportunity. To conclude, a few words about today's situation. So the witch hunt that's going on against Poland in Brussels, we're not gonna miss it, and we're gonna stand up for Poland. Whatever they want to force from Brussels to Poland, we will be there, as we will be in the fight against migration, against illegal migration. We know what this means, and we will definitely help them, and it is absolutely right that they will build a fence, and we will also support it. They try to confront us a lot in history, it's not gonna work. We can't do Western European ideologies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And it won't happen to the bureaucrats in Brussels. Polish-Hungarian friendship is much stronger than that, thank God. Thank you very much for your speech.
u2021-11-09-32	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, That concludes our agenda. It follows now that the LXXVIII of 1993 on the lease of apartments and premises and certain arrangements for their disposal, adopted by the Parliament on 15 June 2021, sent back by the President of the Republic on grounds of non-law. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. Discussion of the legislative committee report and amendment proposal submitted to the Act amending the Act. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/16223/13. Letter from the President of the Republic T/16223/14. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/16223/16. and T/16223/17. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the legislative committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-11-09-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 November 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1993 LXXVIII on the lease of apartments and premises and on certain laws relating to their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. T/16223/13. Act No. 1 returned because of provisions declared to be contrary to the Basic Law. The Legislative Committee's report and its amendment proposal are set out in Rule 79 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear House, The adopted amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, in compliance with the comments made by the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, addresses the problems related to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Court of 25/2021. In its decision of 11 August 2008 it stated that the characteristics of municipal housing property may constitute a constitutional justification for recognising the legality of the disposal obligation. [[10.40]] The Constitutional Court also pointed out that the right to purchase historic dwellings should not result in a step backwards in the level of protection provided for in Article P (1) of the Fundamental Law, since the right of purchase was established under Article 55 of the Housing Act. The official consent provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 4 is appropriate for the State to examine through its administrative bodies that the holder of the right of purchase will preserve the monument according to its nature in the future. Dear House, In view of the determination of the Constitutional Court, the legislator, in compliance with the constitutional requirements concerning the prohibition of discrimination for tenants who have obtained a replacement of the rental rights of the property concerned, sets the purchase price of the apartment covered by the right of purchase at a lower and upper percentage interval, specifying the criteria to be taken into account in order to avoid unjustified discrimination. It follows from the Ab Decision that the determination of the sales value of the immovable property concerned and the amount of the purchase price payable by the holder of the right of purchase is of particular constitutional importance in the present case and, therefore, the legislator added guarantee provisions to the procedure for setting the purchase price. It should also be noted that, on the basis of the general rule of the Civil Code, that interest is payable on the debt, the rate of which is equal to the basic rate of the central bank, the amending proposal states as a guarantee for payment of the instalment, that the amount established as the monthly tranche of the purchase price will be increased by the basic rate of the central bank interest valid on the first day of the calendar half concerned. Dear Parliament, In my view, the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee is capable of abolishing Article 1 (1) of the Act. Article 47 (1) (a) Paragraph 3 (a) and (b), point 47. § 4 and Article 48 Paragraph 2 (2) (e) of the basic law. The provisions of the Act, amended and supplemented by this amendment, serve as far as possible to comply with the requirements of the Constitutional Court's decision. In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask that the proposal submitted be supported in a form which is now also appropriate to the constitutional requirement of legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-09-34	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. Since the rapporteur and the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee are the same, I would like to ask him to speak in his capacity as rapporteur. [[On the sign of László Böröcz:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Secretary Norbert Izer of State on behalf of the government if he would like to speak. [[On the mark of Norbert Izer:]] It says no. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-09-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The bill before us was adopted here in Parliament on 15 June 2021. The current part of the rental law on the sale of apartments in historic buildings owned by the municipality contains amendments to the parts contested by the Constitutional Court. First of all, I would also like to thank the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court for their work, which proves that the criteria of the rule of law in Hungary are good from time to time. We thank both the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court for their comments, because the Constitutional Court has also said that there is a problem not with the fundamental purpose, because it agrees with the fundamental aim, but has challenged certain provisions of the Constitutional Court, and that the correction of this, if you will, has an amendment here before us. In Hungary, final court judgments, the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be implemented and implemented every time, accordingly, the Legislative Committee discussed and accepted the amendment of the bill in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The law defined three categories of subjects as the holder of the right to purchase, on the one hand between 5 and 15 years of age and on the other hand between 15 and 25 years of age or over 25 years of age. However, according to the Constitutional Court's view, the provisions of the law are only in line with the aim of the legislator in cases where the lease is longer than 25 years. The revised version of the regulatory solution for the other two subjects is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. Those who, within 25 years, but at least five years ago, have been given a lease on the basis of an individual decision, could buy the property without a discount, i.e. for a hundred percent of the current turnover, but with a partial payment. Those who have also reached a local government tenement in the area within 25 years, but in exchange for at least 5 years, can become owners by paying 35-50 percent of the current traffic value. The amount of the discount on the purchase price is decided by the municipality on the basis of the sales value of the property on which the replacement is based, which you have information on the contracts available. In the event of a dispute, tenants may appeal to local government offices. The revised amendment of the law as a result of the Constitutional Court decision, I believe that it can continue to fulfil the original goal of allowing Hungarian citizens and families to acquire housing as widely as possible. It is important to stress that both the original law and the current amendment make it clear before my opposition fellow Members throw these accusations at our heads, as they did last time, that companies and real estate speculators are still not allowed to buy, for example, housing within the Buda Castle. The KDNP fraction will support the amendments in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-09-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik.
u2021-11-09-37	Mr President, Dear House, Well, I don't envy you, fellow Members. With my fellow Member Böröcz, I am truly, honestly speaking, and I am not cynical to feel for you. It may be a very unpleasant situation that, standing from one foot to another, somehow pulls out the general debate, but even what was placed on the table is canceled at five points by the Constitutional Court, and the preferential opportunity they wanted to give to Fidesz tellers and their good friends has failed. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] So the donation, the asset disposal didn't work out, and now they can make a good investment for them, but that doesn't change the basic problem: in 12 years you should have had tens of thousands of tens of thousands of apartments built in Hungary with a built-up rental program available to everyone, who doesn't have enough reserves to, say, become a bank loan or buy a home or property on credit. Instead of mass construction, you've been distinguished by mass asset recovery and asset fraud. That is why I say that you are false right-wing people, pseudo-national fellow Members, with chemical-clear neoliberal cruelty you have favored only the lucky ones, and many times you have left on the side of the road people who, because of their financial situation, have not been able to achieve help, for example, I am talking about the 18 thousand families who have been evicted from foreign currency credit. The fact is that, according to your original proposal, the municipal tenement would have basically ceased, so in Hungary this very, very important property element would have been practically rolled out at a discounted price, and their aim was to wait a few years before their known public figures in the Buda Castle could have purchased real estate with a strong discount. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who are they?]] The fact is that 1300 of the more than 1,400 rentals in the Castle were originally placed in this circle, so we can talk about a very large fortune, a national asset estimated between 80 and 120 billion forints. You fake right-wing MEPs, giving up national interests, have tried to play some of this wealth into your private hands, your friends' hands. I'm not saying it's all because anyone who's lived there for 25 years can actually have circumstances that justify the lease becoming ownership. Obviously, this is a legitimate and professional debate, so there is no conflict between us. However, you can see that for the sake of your minions who moved there a few years ago, you were able to make a law before the Hungarian Parliament. What we now see is that it is expected that those who have been renting real estate for less than 25 years will have to pay the full amount of traffic value, and that any person who wishes to pay the apartment in instalments will have to pay interest. But, dear fellow Members, look at the development of property prices. I am not saying that in the period before 2010, it is also worth a mass, just look at what has happened to property prices in Hungary since 2010. House prices have doubled, for example, because your clumsy, testosian economic policy has kept a supply shortage in a market for decades, and this has raised prices, and there are many other reasons to talk about. [[10.50]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, during your time, real estate prices have doubled, and now they offer a reduced investment opportunity to those who could not give free lunches and give gifts. If you look at the expected trends in property prices, you will see that this very preferential investment option with interest payments, which you are now trying to secure, will certainly not be against the Fidesz Joint Chiefs that may be involved in this round. [[László Böröcz and Lőrinc Nacsa: Who is it?! And who is it?!]] And we also see that the main problem with you is that you are trying to present a sense of right-wing and family protection, which is not, by the way, authentic for you, because I was here between 2010 and 14 when you were still asking for these markers; I was here when the Hungarian families were supposed to be protected, and you, on the other hand, threw 18 thousand evictions on them, and laughed, winked at the bank; I was here when you considered the right-hander, the national. The fact is, if you want to represent a national interest, you should not cheat and expand existing assets. We need mass housing in Hungary, a comprehensive rental building program with which the entire opposition side is committed. Methodological disputes can obviously be between us in what schedule, who and how to do this, but the amazing neoliberal cruelty you've done on the front of housing is thinning your partner in Central Europe. In 12 years, they have nothing to show for the rental market, and they have almost nothing to show for the young people's start-ups, for facilitating the housing of young people, and they are practically trying to repack what lies ahead for us; once again, it means that, instead of giving free lunches, they are now trying to provide preferential investment opportunities for their own minions. I am very pleased that, in addition to this, and at the same time one or two decently acquired Hungarians will benefit from it, and their rentals may become property rights, but there is nothing on the system to excuse you from trying to circumvent them instead of building the apartments in bulk. The Constitutional Court has turned your intentions into a braked foam, but we still have these demoralizing intentions. Shame on all of you, everyone who gives your name to this horror. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-11-09-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker is Mr Gergely Arató, representative of his Democratic Coalition.
u2021-11-09-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, They say that the books have their fate, and it seems that this bill has its own destiny, because if you remember it, then it was a bill that came before us for the first time as a demanding bill that upsets the entire municipal housing sector, and then, even in the course of the parliamentary debate, we carved and carved no joke about it, but finally, there was enough of it left; and then it turned out that this little did not even meet the requirements of the current Constitutional Court, well, quite casually. And this is what the Legislative Committee is trying to propose, trying to use a type of motion that is at least consistent with these constitutional frameworks. I have to say that although, of course, the bill is improving a little bit again, it will again be less wrong with this amendment, it will not address some of the important problems. Let's talk about which part of the bill is essentially in order according to the Constitutional Court, and there is no substantive amendment proposal in this regard. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] The part that applies to tenants who live in their rentals for more than 25 years, because, you know, there was a rental-privatization in Hungary, they were left out. However, I see that the authors of the amendment did not really take the part of the judgment of the Constitutional Court to their hearts, which concerned the fact that there are monument protection considerations here. If I am right at the time, when, in the case of these apartments, privatisation was not allowed by the then legislator, the intention was that it would be possible to ensure better preservation of the estate here, probably in municipal and state-owned; there are very significant costs, by the way, for the maintenance of these dwellings. But the fact is that this intention did not actually work, unfortunately there were no sources that would otherwise have made this possible. I think this is a problem, and I think that privatization alone is not going to solve the problem, which is that maintenance of these apartments requires a very significant amount of effort, where appropriate, the modernisation of these apartments can only happen under very strict conditions and in a very difficult, complicated way, but once again, it is actually a fair decision; here residents who have already lived in it have been left out. I will continue to say that, but Mr Csárdi will certainly say that there is a better proposal to solve this problem, but this is an acceptable solution. However, the other half of the bill is not okay and, in particular, this is the subject of the current amendment, which makes it possible for tenants to buy at a very reduced price, who are more than 5 years old but less than 25 years old or earlier, so... [[Antal Csárdi: Inside!]] ... inside, that's it, thank you very much for getting help in these apartments, usually by exchange. Because in their case, there is no harm in the kind of damage that tenants older than 25 years of age have missed an opportunity; then they did not live in these apartments, they have been there ever since. In their case, there is no moral justification, and I would add, I don't think there's any legal reason for them to get these apartments at a discount. And this is not a problem, let there be no misunderstanding that someone can get an apartment on the basis of a municipal decision, because most municipalities have the option, so there is the possibility for the municipality to decide on its own assets, but you do not decide on your own assets here, nor do you decide on the property of the Parliament, but on the property of the municipalities. On that basis, I'm sorry, but we could also make a law that Congressman Nacsa is obliged to sell his apartment at a 30-50 percent discount, and he can only decide if it's 30 or 50 percent, or if it's Mr Böröcz. That is the problem, dear fellow Members. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Small fork! That's what happened there.]] My dear fellow Members, this is the problem, the problem is that you have an obligation to sell your assets, and that other is a municipality, so you are taking this property not only from one person, but from a community. We've already spoken about the beneficiaries of this, and I wouldn't bring this here again. We know that we have the people who asked you to do this and for whom you do this. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Who?!! Who?! Who?!]] But right now, I'm gonna let this part of it go. [[László Böröcz: Who?!]] Finally, I would like to make one more comment. This proposal does not solve the problem that you do not have a rental policy, you have no idea how people who are lining up for a rental across the country are going to be applying for a new apartment, because this would require renting and a variety of other measures, a well-thought-out policy. Now, that's what the Fidesz government's housing policy lacks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-11-09-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speaking in advance, Mr Csárdi Antal, Mr LMP. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-11-09-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear rapporteur, Well, this law perfectly describes the legislative practice of Fidesz, its motivations, its direction, everything, really, so that... Remember the very first version of this law, which, even for the Fidesz mayors, took out the guarantee, was not a coincidence, let's say, very impressively and critically about the bill, which would otherwise have clearly resulted in the collapse of the rest of the municipal housing system. After that, it was the second round, the first round of amendments, and I had already told the Member that that bill was unconstitutional. And I understand that you try to keep the agreements behind different closed doors in a very nice decorative package. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] But the thing is, the Constitution is binding on all of us, including you. [[11.00]] What does God give? The Constitutional Court also ruled that the law was unconstitutional. But I think that the Commission amendment that we have before us remains unconstitutional, honourable House, honourable Members. It is because there is still an unconstitutionality as formulated by the Constitutional Court, given that you provide a 50% or at least 35 percent discount even if you have the right to rent in exchange for ownership within 25 years. However, the Constitutional Court makes it quite clear that, in relation to contracts within 25 years, there is no reason why the consideration should not be the same as its national value. I think, fellow Members, that if you would have wanted a good law, if you had been guided by a truly noble purpose, you should have done so, that those who have failed to privatise the apartments of 93-94-95 without their own faults would have made it possible to obtain under those conditions, under the conditions of financing laid down at that time. But you were more motivated by the fact that, for example, I dared say Zsolt Bayer's name, because several times the pro-government representatives asked who we were trying to insinuate, and who served the Zsolt Bayer who, in exchange for a wooden house, obtained the right to rent a property worth more than HUF 100 million. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would like to ask my fellow Member what was the disadvantage of Zsolt Bayer, who replaced a rural cabin worth perhaps HUF 10 million for the rental rights of a property in Buda. What is the disadvantage of Zsolt Bayer? I don't think so. And what's going to happen? What's gonna happen is you're gonna be able to buy this property with a 35-50 discount. Why was he given this nearly 50 percent gift, so it was worth about 50 million forints? No one in this House can tell me that today. You're a very nice decorated server for the system. We have seen these in the case of casino concessions, and it could be a very long list of such legislative proposals. I think it would be worth considering that the Constitutional Court, which said that the consideration for contracts within 25 years should be the national value, also existed in those contracts resulting from the exchange of property which did not suffer any disadvantage. For example, in the case of Zsolt Bayer, the value of the property should be properly calculated and calculated on the basis of 100% of the value of the property. As this amendment is also a constitutional violation, the LMP cannot support this.
u2021-11-09-42	Good afternoon. Welcome. We will continue our work by speaking to the Lady of the Betterman. Anita Kőrösi is next. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Presenter!]] I almost gave the word to Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi. Thank you very much for standing up, but I would like to ask you to take a seat, because Fidesz's representative, Mr László Böröcz, has applied for a speech as rapporteur. I ask for your understanding, Congresswoman, and the others' apologies. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, there's a lot that's been said that's worth responding to. I'd like to make one point. Congressman Z. Carpath said that he felt sorry for me because he felt uncomfortable for me. It's never unpleasant for me to work for the citizens. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] It's never unpleasant for me to help people who deserve it. The truth about this, too, Mr Csárdi, is that not only are they not telling the truth, but they are deliberately twisting reality and deliberately slipping it. I understand that Mr Csárdi is so brave, but we have failed to provide consistent information on his own amendment on News TV, because he did not know what was involved in the amendment he had tabled. The lecture you've done here in Parliament needs to be turned down a little bit, because the work you've put into this bill is bleeding from multiple wounds. Let's start at the beginning. What did you say, Congressman? In the election campaign, the mayor and the mayor were told at the forefront that people who were in a really unfair and unfair situation in the 1990s would be able to buy their apartments. [[Antal Csárdi: When did Zsolt Bayer move into his apartment?]] But what happened next? The mayor has made it clear several times, in several interviews, that she has no intention of selling these apartments. Then what happened on November 5, 2020? They announced at a residential forum that they wouldn't sell the apartments and drastically increase the rent. What happened after that is your lie, which has been maintained for almost a year. And when it turned out that it was mandatory to sell these properties, because we were installing the right to buy by law, they suddenly changed their minds, as if by a canopy. Well, that's very interesting, Congressman. [[Antal Csárdi is leaving the meeting room. Lőrinc Nacsa: The congressman is running away from the truth.]] Of course the congressman is running away. I understand that Congressman is leaving the room, because it is obviously unpleasant for him that he was not telling the truth, and he did not know what was in his own amendment. I understand that you're uncomfortable, Congressman. There was talk of why we chose this path. We have chosen this path because citizens who suffered this case have sought to deal with this problem. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who contacted you? Zsolt Bayer?]] I've met hundreds of people, Congressman. By the way, those involved include Ferenc Gelencsér, then Deputy Mayor Gábor Csobánczy DK, so I would be quieter with these accusations. The other is really impertinent, and I would add that the accusation that put the people living there in an awkward position is that the municipality had anything to do with the completion of the replacement dwellings. The regulation of the replacement dwellings states that it depends on the conclusion of two equal parties: who sells the lease and who adds ownership. The municipality simply had to approve this act. The municipality has never been able to influence this process. You claim that certain people have wrongfully obtained rentals, which is simply not true. And they never listed at least a dozen people on the left who also had legitimate access to these apartments. I don't think they understand the basic problem. We don't want to move people into apartments, we want to move them to their own property. That's what all the government's actions are about. Thank God, even Peter James was able to live with the CSOK and get his own apartment. So James may be for Peter, and the rest of us can't. It hurts you to help other people. This is Jobbik's policy, which I congratulate you on. [[11.10]] Comments on the sale of property. If I allow the Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian people and the people who live there to buy the apartments now with the same discounts as they did in the early 1990s, then I will sell the country's property. If you think that's true, I'll take it. However, I would like to draw attention to what I said yesterday: the sale of the country and the actual squandering of property, I would like to put it mildly, and then I did not even bring here the category of theft that was done by the left during the Gyurcsány era in this country. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You have been in government for 12 years! How many apartments have you built?]] What they did during the Gyurcsány era. Hungarian wealth in the last ten years [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How many apartments have you built? Nacsa Lőrinc: How you protect them!]] The value of Hungarian wealth, the value of Hungary's wealth, has doubled. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? There's no national inventory! What are you talking about?]] Let me just give you one example, which I brought up yesterday: the MTV headquarters, the Stock Exchange Palace, sold for HUF 4.5 billion by Gyurcsány's buddy in 2006, and for three years, it was rented back for HUF 2 billion. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Wow!]] Six billion forints were paid as rent for one of those properties. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Talk about what is going on with the apartments.]] what Gergely Harvesto was doing when he was here. [[Gergely Harvestó: I'm here right now, it's worth noticing!]] His boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, sold for 4 billion. So in English, they paid more rent than they sold the property for. What's this? If you're going to preach to us about loss of wealth, Congressman. It was not the decision of the Constitutional Court that the value submitted could not be taken into account for the replacements, but simply that those who obtained this type of property on the basis of an individual decision, which is included in the amending proposal, could indeed buy this at 100%, and otherwise they only have the possibility to pay in instalments if they make use of this option. The municipality still has a role to play in dealing with these specific situations. Obviously, the law can't handle any of these situations. As regards the replacements, the Constitutional Court clearly stated that, in the event of an exchange, account could be taken of the value of the transferred property, where ownership was given in exchange for the right to rent. What is already an apology to you and, above all, to Mr Csárdi, who is practically playing a theatre, you are constantly communicating that the Csárdi Antal amendment proposal will allow the municipality to adopt a regulation and resolve this issue by regulation. That's just not true. Since 2013, the municipality would have had the opportunity at any time to make a decree in which it envisages the sale of historic dwellings. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He didn't want to!]] From October 2019, both Antal Csárdi and Mayor Márta V. Naszályi could at any time have initiated the sale of these properties to the tenants, including those before 96. But they didn't do that either. They didn't do anything in this case. The only thing they did was tell them that they weren't selling, and they dramatically increased the rent; obviously, which, by the way, ruined the market for the shrubs. What else are they gonna say? That, of course, a 20-year ban on disposal would be added to this law. Well, I beg you, if someone's life situation changes, the family wants to move to the countryside, or someone wants to move into the Buda Castle, like I told you before. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's so common, isn't it? It happens all the time.]] For example, a family in Zugló, where the children grew up, sells their own property and buys a lease on it in the Castle of Buda, with what you and your allies have done, basically destroyed these families or almost destroyed these families. Over the years, the money saved by their lives, which they put in their own apartment, and then traded for a rental in Buda, was basically insane, because under these circumstances no one would have given a penny for a rental. This law also handles this situation. The municipality will continue to have the responsibility to deal with individual cases where a tenant exchanges property with a tenant. There are several of these families, and their situation must be dealt with. Congressman Csárdi, as I said, they've been playing the theater here for the last year. I was invited to meet them, to sit down with the mayor's wife, and I wrote back that, of course, I'm coming. They haven't sent an appointment or a crime scene since. And then they show us that we're not cooperating with you. When they had the chance to settle this situation, they didn't settle it. And now that you see it, the law clearly states that the right to buy is mandatory for these people, they pretend to agree with it. Congressman Harvester just said that, of course, tenants before 25 deserve to buy it. Well, that's not what you said in the debate the other day, Congressman. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: But he said that in the previous debate, but you didn't understand it then! Gergely Harvestó: There are text understanding problems!]] Textual problems, yes, there were. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: At least you admit it!]] We have seen it in recent speeches. I would ask you, for once in your life, for this party political battle that you are doing, and what you are also trying to use to discredit people, for once in your life, you are trying to put that in parentheses because it is really about the lives of hundreds, thousands of families and tenants to whom this law can help. This is what they are trying to take into account, and that is why I ask you to continue to vote in favour of the amendment. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2021-11-09-44	Thank you very much. This is the moment that Congresswoman Anita Potocsány can speak. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, my fellow Member Böröcz, to join those who say that we feel sorry for you. It's been six months now, or more than six months now. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] And apparently constantly, like a little cake, they're loading the ingredients to somehow pass through the House. When the Constitutional Court also says that there are quite serious problems in this, then nothing else is important to you but the original ideas, saying that, well, we will step back a little, we will step back a little, but in the coming period we will only put in a position tenants who will have access to rentals on the basis of the new and now absolutely integrated legislation. Yes, my fellow Member, when you said that we were talking about selling out the country's assets, you mean you. Well, that's what we're saying, you're selling out the country's assets. They're playing over the municipal assets they're short of anyway. Because look at how many apartments there are in the country and how much it would be needed: multiples. Unfortunately, the Hungarian real estate market is in such a position that Hungarian people, Hungarian families, have difficulty accessing these properties. Yes, there would be many who would like to live in a rented home so that they could start a life and have children. When you decide not to keep the apartments but to dispose of them, and you vote in favour of them, you are blocking this system and this way in front of the Hungarian families. All because a few hundred people can be helped, even though, I think thousands of people are crying out for more rentals. It's been more than half a year now, but it's still the same thing: the reenactment of municipal property for the pals. This can be seen not only in this legislation, but throughout their governance, when we talk about assets. You are in a hurry, you are afraid that, after April 2022, we will overwrite and change these laws. They should, 'cause they will. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-09-46	Thank you very much. Now the KDNP representative, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, may speak. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to the words of Dániel Z. Karpát and Gergely Arató, but Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi told me what they will keep if God does not give them to government or not. Didn't your Prime Minister's candidate say that they're certainly not going to keep up with the reduction? This is the message of the Hungarian people in the current energy crisis. But I only brought this here for your actuality. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: What is the forint exchange rate?]] Dániel Z. Kárpát told us about the economic policy of the test, which resulted in 915 thousand more people working, while real wages increased by 70 percent over ten years. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Would you like to talk about Romanian GDP per capita?]] thanks to which every year there was an investment record in Hungary. You always call this a production report, but these are facts, Congressman. You said that between 2010 and 14 when you were here, what speeches you made. We can remember that he was still scolding the Gyurcsány government. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I was talking about you!]] At that time, he was abusing the socialists, then he wanted to leave the European Union. Therefore, many of these speeches can be well remembered, honourable Member. At the time, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gergely Arató and the socialists were not allies. [[Tamás Csányi: Does it change the fact?]] So this was a different world then, honourable Member. [[11.20]] Gergely Arató said that here in the bill, we are not trying to hand over our private property to someone, but we are deciding on the property of someone else. Honourable Congressman, Local government property is also part of national property, municipal property is part of the state subsystem, it is also public property, honourable Member. I understand that these concepts are very vague to you, because before 1990 you considered private property to be public property, and between 2002 and 2010, public property was considered private property. So I understand that you have a conceptual problem with these issues. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Which you have now made private property.]] But if someone took you home at a lower price, it was your boss at the Little Mansion. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: But what about public property now? If they sell it, what's it gonna be?]] Do you think it's worth 159 square meters of 9 million forints, which you only have to pay 10 percent of? 'Cause that's how your bosses got the Tiny Fork when they assigned it to you, wasn't it, November 7th, the Kossuth Square volley was assigned to your boss and his family a fork like this, Mr. Congressman? So if you're talking about private property and public property, be careful, because it's a quagmire soil for you. But you have also submitted countless budget amendments where you would have taken funding from a different investment for each purpose, took money and wanted to transfer budgetary resources for some other purpose. Are you saying that as a Member of Parliament, for example, my fellow Member Böröcz does not have the right to submit a bill that may affect, for example, municipal property? Of course you have a right, Your Honour. You are questioning the fundamental rule of law issues here, honourable Member, the basis for democracy is that a Member of Parliament cannot submit Parliament's amendment on this subject. And, well, let's not forget, it was you who said, if you're private property, that if you're on government, you're gonna make right-wing intellectuals a runaway. So we know, Congressman, these sentences, you have said them on countless occasions. Now I understand that you're fast in your laptop, you're experiencing an indestructible need to write letters, because it's hard to face. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It's hard to face these sentences when you're standing up, and here you're trying to talk about private property and public property, which, unfortunately, you've seen in the past, you don't know at all. But you have also tabled a number of budgetary amendments, if I remember correctly, Mr honourable Member, even argued in favour of it, where you took it from part of the state budget, you wanted to take it away and put it there for another purpose. No? There has been, hasn't there, Honourable Congressman? If we remember correctly, many times in the last few years. It was also a time when they wanted to make use of the provision in advance with the better Members, so that if Hungary is in a difficult situation, the Covid crisis, the migration crisis, or any other crisis, there would not be such a provision. But I think these arguments you've made here are false. You want the Hungarian people not to have their own apartments with a noble simplicity. Mr Z. Kárpát also said that every time he has a panel like this, he says it every time, but somehow in the last few weeks it has been very spectacularly missed, for example, why someone hires a CSOK with a ministerial or a representative's salary. Since it turned out that your party president has been hiring a CSOK with a group leader's salary, all of a sudden these panels have been cancelled, because this is always, no matter what the subject, honourable Member, quite a lot of time we are sitting here, both of us, always part of your speech. In the last few weeks, this has somehow been cancelled, because he knows exactly, and I am glad that Peter James has also recorded the CSOK; I would like to see as many as possible, and we can see that he has helped hundreds of thousands of families to have their own home. Because if you ask the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people want an own-owned apartment. And you want to force them into a rental. That is the huge difference in perspective, I think, between us. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't understand. You can't help it, but you don't understand.]] None of them could raise a worthy objection to the bill, Mr Csárdi, who, by the way, says that he cares about the castles. He could never tell me why the mayor wanted to freeze her and why she didn't want to, even though she had the opportunity to sell these apartments since 2013 and to get those who lived in her for more than 25 years: because they didn't have that intention. Of course, the TV station was sold, of course, the airport was sold, and of course, they're about to sell City Hall. We understand that for you, these boundaries are blurred, because what is in the hands of a left-wing red baron or oligarch does not really have to be public property; so they can migrate from public property and, with a noble simplicity, become private property through robbery privatisation. But we are not following this direction, we are not representing this policy, we are standing by the people and we are listening to the requests of the people, and my fellow Member has come here today with this amendment in order to modify, in line with the demands and requests of the Constitutional Court, the need that has not changed at all, as the Constitutional Court has acknowledged, that this goal is basically not wrong, and it is even right to amend it. I therefore ask you that, if you have not been able to put forward any substantive arguments in this debate, at least vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-48	Thank you very much. The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Gergely Arató, is next.
u2021-11-09-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Well, it would be very difficult to answer the many kinds of vegetables that Congressman Nacsa has brought together here. I would like to highlight two elements that have content and make sense. And these are fundamental political differences, you are right, Congressman. On the one hand, we believe that autonomy is the value, the property of the municipality is the property of the municipality, it is the property of the people living there, it is not the same as a budgetary amendment, Member, forgive me, but with basic concepts, I think there are problems on that side. You can't get a budget changer to put City Hall in your name, you can't take Kossuth Square, I could go on with it, I'm sorry, the government, but I could go on. So, to put it this way, we deeply condemn the practice that regards the wealth of the municipalities as a freely distributed and removable prey, which is a fundamental political difference between us, indeed. And there is also a fundamental political difference that we not only care about families who want to replace one hundred million-dollar property with another hundred million-dollar property, but also those who are waiting for a local government tenant because they can solve their housing and because they need it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And there's a lot more of them in this country.
u2021-11-09-50	Thank you very much. Opinions are unlimited, but the time frame is limited, which is why I had to ring the bell. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak out of the remaining time frame? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Izer if he wants to reflect on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] It says no. In this case, I ask the rapporteur, Mr László Böröcz, that he wishes to reflect. (To be indicated:) Yeah. I have to warn you that you have four minutes and 16 seconds as an author. I'm asking you to get on with this. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Then it's worth really reacting to a few things, because there's been some misunderstanding. That municipal autonomy is important or not? Obviously, the autonomy of the local government is important. By the way, it does not belong entirely to the municipalities, but I am trying to put it in a concise way, its financial possibilities and its assets have improved significantly over the last ten years. The country's budgetary situation has also improved significantly over the last ten years. Anyone who says that this is not true does not know or can not interpret the macroeconomic issues of Hungary. With regard to the exchange estates, and to say something a little more specific, you are constantly trying to make the false claim that these properties contain a population of some particular composition, who are well above the average, which is obviously not true. They live here as low-income people, low-income pensioners, family members, private individuals, single people, as they have lived in any other city in the country in recent years. The difference is, in the '90s, they obviously couldn't have gotten that option. And of course, you can argue that anyone who has exchanged property for rent should be entitled, on the one hand, to a right to purchase and, on the other, to account for his property in this construction. But, I beg you, if we go back to the beginning, on the one hand, the municipality didn't have its own apartments, but it got these apartments from the state in the early '90s. The state did not have its own apartments either, because during the communist dictatorship the Communists nationalized them from private individuals and took these homes away. Of course, there must be someone who, at the time of communism, has been assigned one or two of these apartments in exchange for good service, of course, it can be, but obviously we have to look at the well-being and interests of the people as a whole. And in helping these hundreds and thousands of families, it won't stop us from getting a name or two out of some political motivation. [[11.30]] I mean, as I said, there are as many names on the left as there are people with right-wing ties who live here. And this, I would add, would be true of all the towns and cities of Hungary. So this circus you're doing in this case is outrageous; and by the way, people who live in District I, District V, are being branded and tried to discredit. in the district, which is affected by the bill. And once again, the sanctimonious thing that has been done here for the past year and a half since the first district council was taken over is simply a knife opener. So they weren't telling the truth, they said they weren't selling, they said they were gonna change the law, they were gonna make their own decree. There is no need to amend the law in order to obtain these properties to tenants in their own decree. So to be honest, it's not entirely clear to me what your goals are in terms of exchange rates, and once again, in the exchange apartments, because I feel that this is the marginal point of our conversation today. We have set a price of between 35 and 50 percent, the bill, which is obviously based on the fact that if you look at the analyses of real estate.com, the analysis of real estate.com clearly shows that in District I, District V and Section VI. 50-65 per cent of the sales value of the rental in respect of the real estate in district areas. In view of this, it is obvious [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we have adjusted these numbers to this value, which in general makes the story fully valid. Thank you very much for listening, and I trust that I have managed to convince you of something. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-09-52	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place today. And now it's my chance to take a 13-hour break, and then we'll continue with the vote. Thank you very much. [[Break: 11.32-13.09]] (President: István Jakab) Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. László Varga)
u2021-11-09-53	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rules 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill or a proposal for a resolution, this shall extend without any further specific decision to the withdrawal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the non-approved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, There are 185 Members present, 14 Members absent. LXXVIII of 1993 on certain arrangements for the rental of apartments and premises and their disposal, adopted by the Parliament on 15 June 2021, sent back by the President of the Republic on grounds of non-law. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. Decision on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending Law and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/16223/13. Letter from the President of the Republic T/16223/14. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/16223/16. and T/16223/17. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that it is not possible to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/16223/16. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 133 votes to 53, with no abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we shall decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the agreed points of the legislative committee's amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the Act, which has just been amended, which requires a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he accepts the 1993 LXXVIII on certain rules concerning the rental of apartments and premises and their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. The provisions of the Act amending the Act, which has not been published, require a qualified majority, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the law, which required a qualified majority, by 135 votes in favour, 52 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the law, which requires a simple majority, which has just been amended. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he accepts the 1993 LXXVIII on certain rules concerning the rental of apartments and premises and their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. the provisions of the law which requires a simple majority to be amended, which has not been published, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the provisions of the law, which required a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 53 votes against and no abstentions. [[13.10]] It follows that T/16224 amending certain laws in the context of the status of the nuclear power monitoring body. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16224/5. T/16224/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Kocsis-Cake Olivio. In order to maintain this proposal, two thirds of the Members of Parliament present must vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 136 votes against and 30 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 16, 19, 21 and 32, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16224/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16224/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16224/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 55 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/16224/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. It follows that H/17271 on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of the proposal for a resolution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/17271. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 155 votes to 21, with 10 abstentions. [[13.20]] It follows that T/17283 on measures to modernise individual procedures and further strengthen the security of citizens will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17283/5. and its summary report is T/17283.6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 12, 13 and 37 to 39, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17283/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on a further part of the summary amendment that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17283/5. The additional part of the summary amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the remainder of the summary amendment, which required a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17283/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17283/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstention. XCIX 2021 on emergency transitional arrangements follows. Act T/17279 on the entry into force of Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17279/4. T/17279/5 and T/17279/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17279/4. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes to 52, with no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17279/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17279/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. Next up is T/17147 on the amendment of certain public law laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17147/6. T/17147/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/17147/6. The Parliament initiated a separate vote on points 12 and 14 of the summary amendment proposal, but also proposed that Parliament decide on the points requested for a separate vote by one vote. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 2, 10, 11 and 15 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present are required for their adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17147/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 12 and 14 of the summarised amendment, which require a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17147/6. Point 12 and 14 of the amendment, which requires a simple majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points asked for a separate vote on the draft amendment by 134 votes to 54, with no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17147/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which required a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17147/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17147/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstention. [[13.30]] It follows that T/17282 on the amendment of certain laws relating to judicial matters as well as related laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/1728/4. and a summary report by T/17282.5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 27, 31, 34, 37, 40 and 41 of this Decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1728/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 49 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1728/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1728/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1728/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. It follows the XCIII of 2021 on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law and on the coordination of defence and security activities. T/17054 on the amendment of the Act. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17054/5. T/17054/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/17054/5, the author is entitled "T/17054/5. A separate vote was initiated on point 5 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the point requested for a separate vote, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. Now a qualified majority is required in point 4 of the summary amendment proposal, as set out in section 14 of the bill. § 17-19 of the Act. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17054/5. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the part of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 44 against and 9 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 5 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17054/5. Point 5, which requires a simple majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points for a separate vote on the draft amendment by 134 votes to 43, with 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17054/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 49 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17054/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 48 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17054/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 49 against and 4 abstentions. The following is the H/17144 on the Hungarian military engagement in the TAKUBA casual combat force. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/1714/45. H/17144/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/17144/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 153 votes to two, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a single proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/171447. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 154 votes in favour, 2 against and 30 abstentions. [[13.40]] Next up is T/17004 on the amendment of the national referendum procedure. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17004. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/17265 on the amendment of individual electoral laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17265/5. and a summary report by T/172656. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/17265/5, the Group of the Fidesz Group is the T/17265/5. Amending proposal No 6, 7 and 12 . and the KDNP Group launched a separate vote on points 10 and 11. At the same time, the Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the points which it has asked for a separate vote by one vote. First we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then we decide on the points requested for a separate vote, then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 1-3 and 8 of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present are required for their adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17265/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 48 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 6, 7 and 12 for a simple majority requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17265/5. Point 6, 7 and 12 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points asked for a separate vote on the draft amendment by 133 votes to 49, without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 10 of the summarised amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17265/5. The point requested for a separate vote, which requires a simple majority of amendments. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote by 140 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 11 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17265/5. Point 11 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority, asked for a separate vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the points asked for a separate vote, with 6 votes in favour, 179 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17265/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17265. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 49 against and without abstention. We now decide on the provisions of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17265. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstention. It follows a series of amendments to the Single Drug Convention in New York, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, dated 30 March 1961, T/17276. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17276. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, signed in Vienna on the 21st of February 1971, T/17274. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17274. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 181 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Council of Europe Convention on Cultural Heritage Crime of 19 May 2017 in Nikosia, T/1772. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/1772/1. The amendment to the bill, which contains the official translation of the international treaty in Hungarian and the official translation of the text of reservations made to the international treaty in Hungarian, has been submitted with a view to improving spelling errors, which are available on the network. [[13.50]] Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1772. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the adjusted bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road border bridges and border sections at the common state border, signed on 14 September 2017 in Budapest. T/17273 on the announcement of an amendment. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17273. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 2019 LXXI on Hungary's central budget for 2020. T/17188. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17188. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill by 127 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. An XCV of 2005 on the use of medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market follows. T/17275. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17275. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 180 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the introduction of the Data Change Management Service and the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of the administrative burden on citizens T/17277. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17277/7. and a summary report by T/17277/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1727/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes to 13, with 32 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/17277/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes to 12, with 35 abstentions. It follows that T/17280 on the cross-border transformation, merger, division and other legislative amendments to the law on the cross-border transformation, division and harmonisation of capital companies. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17280/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/17280/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1728/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/172807. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 32 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, I/1744. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes to 54, with two abstentions. Zsolt Molnár, MSZP representative, I/17450. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, I/17448. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 123 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, I/17446. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 123 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, I/17454. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 122 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, I/17445. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 123 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. [[14.00]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of MSZP, I/17426. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 122 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. László Szakács, representative of MSZP, I/17425. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 14 October 2021 12.Bpk.762/2021/5. Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/17502. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to President János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2021-11-09-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said here, in the transcript of the Pécs District Court, you propose to the Parliament that we suspend the immunity of Mr Ákos Hadházy on the ground of slander. Among the facts, I will bring to Parliament the following: Mr K.A., who denounced Mr Hadházy's comments on the Facebook page on 25 May 2020. Mr. Congressman, referring to the articles of the Hungarian Orange, Mr. K.A. is claiming to be the man of confidence of a Member who was the manager of a number of questionable projects that had lost EU money. The indictor interprets this as practically accusing him of criminal participation by the MP, so he turned to the court. The immunity committee discussed the case yesterday. At the meeting of the immunity committee, the congressman did not attend. The Members of Parliament present unanimously decided that we would propose to the Parliament that the case be a private case, so that the immunity of Congressman Hadházy would not be suspended by the Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Ákos Hadházy is not in the Chamber. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Ákos Hadházy by 28 votes in favour, 125 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Break: 14.06 14.09]] (President: István Jakab) Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Dezső Believer)
u2021-11-09-56	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members, who do not wish to take part actively in the remainder of the meeting, if they wish to leave the Chamber, to do so in a short time and in silence. Thank you very much for your understanding. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on defence and defence of Hungary until the closure. The government referral is T/17432. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister for Defence Tibor Benkő, the author of the item on the agenda. Minister, you wish to keep your proposal from the pulpit. Here you go, Minister. [[14.10]]
u2021-11-09-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'll start with a chronological flashback. Last December 15th, the Parliament voted to amend the Fundamental Law, which changes the foundations of our defence system, including our special rule of law. Instead of the six legal systems still in force today, it represents only three special legal orders which greatly improve the effectiveness of rapid and operational decisions. This summer, following the amendment of the Fundamental Law, the Parliament also adopted a law on the coordination of defence and security activities, which provides for the regulation of coordinated, coordinated cooperation between the various state, i.e. national and police and administrative actors in the event of a different threat and crisis or special legal order. In view of these legislative changes, CXIII of 2011 on defence, the Hungarian Defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that can be introduced in the special legal order cannot be ignored. review of the law. In carrying out this work, we have come to the conclusion that it is not an amendment, but a new defence law that we need to implement and create, on which we can now begin the general debate. The law, as I mentioned, is new and not only follows the necessary responses to rapidly changing security challenges, but it also involves processing the experience of the past ten years. When drawing up the draft law, careful planning had to play a key role not only in terms of content but also in terms of time planning. As a result of the amendment of the Fundamental Law, it is necessary to ensure the continuous functioning of defence and security management in view of the complexity of the implementing rules and the time needed to prepare. It is therefore already necessary to establish the relevant fundamental laws which will enter into force in 2023 in a timely manner and to ensure that the legal institutions that are leaving the basic law level, such as the terrorist threat, the preventive defence situation or the peace period of the unexpected attack, the establishment and clarification of crisis management rules. Dear House, The proposal therefore shifts the sustainable elements of the existing Defence Act by adapting it to the expectations of the age, its consequences, and by clarifying the special rules of law in the light of the amendment of the Fundamental Law, specifying some previous specific legal order tasks as a peace period task. As a result of the changed security policy environment, new rules appear in the task system of defence in particular, which have a common feature of focusing on the time of the decision, i.e. the rapid response capacity. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, As I said earlier, the new law is not only technically adapted to the re-regulated structure of our defence system, but also includes the experience of recent years. I will highlight some of these without the need for completeness. As we know, the essence of hybrid threats is that the protection of the country is threatened by the use of both military and non-military means and procedures. It is therefore particularly appropriate to ensure coordinated cooperation between the wallets concerned and to take all measures along them. In order to give effect to the overall approach of the government and the overall approach, the basis for the system of training of staff involved in defence tasks in the public administration and private sector is also decisive, and therefore the related tasks are also reflected in the presentation. The defence system is grouped by law according to the scope of the right to use weapons and, secondly, according to the fact that it is its own task directly derived from the Fundamental Law or to participate in other public tasks. The proposal therefore continues to define the tasks of the defence in the same way as in the present case, with and without the right to use weapons, in the same way as in the present case. On the other hand, the tasks performed by the defence can be divided into two categories. These are the tasks carried out in their own right and the tasks of the contributor. As a guarantee rule, the proposal states that the powers falling within the competence of other bodies cannot be taken away by the defence, but can only help and support the performance of the task as defined by the law. In line with the challenges of the age, the proposal outlines the military cyberspace operational force task system and procedural rules of the defence. It is important that the proposal also sets out guarantee rules that must be complied with during application. The provision seeks in a manner consistent with NATO's expectations and development directions, while guaranteeing the enforcement of national interests by applying the principles of gradualness, necessity and proportionality to the use of military cyberspace operational capabilities. [[14.20]] The proposal also establishes the legal basis for the forces of defence to carry out active electromagnetic operations to ensure the implementation of military professional tasks. The proposal lays down basic rules for the use of weapons by defence organisations when carrying out their tasks linked to the right to use weapons. In view of the termination of the legal institution of the unexpected attack at the specific level of the legal order by 2023, the ability to respond to the events that triggered it should be maintained, and therefore, for the specifically prepared forces, the proposal also regulates the possibility of using weapons without the imposition of a state of war, but with an approximate regulation. In view of the development of military technology, it is necessary to establish a general regime for the use of new generation weapons systems. In order to ensure that the target is destroyed only in the event of threats that cannot be otherwise avoided and, if possible, in the course of the design and operation of the systems, when the autonomous weapons and defence system is organised, installed and used, it is necessary to ensure that the target is destroyed by means of human intervention. During the foreign service, the task must be carried out under a number of circumstances other than domestic conditions, so it is justified to create a system of rules supplementing the domestic regulations, but somewhat different from that, which specifically addresses the security of the military soldiers carrying out the task. In a significantly changed security environment over the last ten years, new types of security challenges have also made it necessary to rethink state security regulations. The boundaries between peace-time and special rules of law are blurring. In addition to many other areas of hybrid warfare, it also seeks to exploit the weaknesses of state defence regulations and the constraints that have been adapted to the former security environment. In view of this, it is necessary to prepare ourselves to address effectively the new types of so-called grey zone challenges in order to protect Hungary at national level, as well as to ensure the effective fulfilment of our allies' obligations in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. This is the purpose of the proposal for a defence crisis, which aims to provide the government with a more flexible mandate, which is peaceful but adapted to new types of challenges, in order to prepare for crises and to increase the effectiveness of action against escalation. Dear Parliament, To sum up today's challenge: preparation for the extremely fast, the unexpected, the unexperienced, the unpredictable. The new Defence Act should provide for the possibility of responding to all cases in accordance with the Fundamental Law and the harmonised protection legislation. I am convinced that only the coordination of the entire defence system can ensure the nation's immune system and defence success. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-58	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-11-09-59	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Minister, We have a proposal from a new Defense Act. Following the adoption in December 2020 of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, which mentions only three special legal orders from 2023 instead of the six existing today, and following the adoption of the XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities in the first half of this year. It is not surprising that we are discussing a completely new draft law, which, in parallel with the constitutional amendment, will create a new framework for defence activities in our country. At the same time, looking at the proposal that regulation does not fundamentally change, it gains a more transparent, logical structure, which, of course, is adapted to the above mentioned transformation of the legislative environment. Why do we need all this? In addition to the traditional security threats, our age's new types and extraordinary speed are emerging, and then its escalating threats are becoming more dominant. The clear line between the times of war and peace is blurring. We are in a period of continuous crisis. Migration crisis, health emergency, strengthening international terrorism, war conflicts follow each other in close proximity and far and extreme weather situations. This process also forces the operation of state defence systems to be transformed. We cannot constantly declare a crisis situation, we must create a framework for normal functioning that can cope with the different threats and security challenges. And if it really is necessary to deal with a crisis situation, it should be introduced only in the most necessary cases, in proportion and gradually, but at the right pace. This does not mean, of course, that there are no major differences between the old and the new law. The proposal before us places particular emphasis on preparing for defence tasks, adopting and applying the regulatory elements of the Defence and Security Act on necessity and proportionality, and also adapting to the specific rules on coordination activities. We also find meaningful provisions in the proposal. The bill is more precisely adapted to the governance structure of defence organisations than the current law on defence. It updates the system of internal provisions and their publication, complements the rules for taking different decisions with more precise deadlines and sets out more detailed rules for the defence obligation than at present. [[14.30]] In this context, I would like to point out that, in order to limit the duty of duty based on duty to war, certain preparatory activities must be carried out already during the period of peace. At the same time, men who meet the conditions may continue to be obliged to perform an armed or unarmed service only in a state of war. The new Defence Act will include rules on special cases of legal order which will cease to exist in peacetime. In particular, provisions concerning the tasks of the defence and the possibilities for the use of weapons will be included in the law. That is, therefore, the reason and purpose for the transformation of our defence and security systems. But I think that has always been clear to my fellow Members. We've talked about this more than once. I'd like to get to the specifics right now. As I have already mentioned, the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, with effect from 1 July 2023, naming three of the existing six special legal orders: state of war, state of emergency and emergency. In these three special legal orders, the government is placed in the situation of extraordinary legal order decision-makers. The Defence Council will cease, and the President of the Republic's driving licences for the state of emergency will be transformed. The laws of the three remaining special legal orders are laid down in the protection and security laws adopted this year. They should therefore no longer be included in the Defence Act. I think it is noticeable that we are not talking about a need for amendment that fully justifies the creation of a brand-new law, but if we simply amended our current law on defence, its title would no longer cover its contents. The 2011 CXIII. Law on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures to be introduced in the special legal order. Since the law on legislation does not allow for a simple amendment of the title of a law, the legal solution is to adopt a new law, which does not include special legal order measures, either in its designation or in its regulatory elements. It may be a bit of a profan, but it's also a legislative factor. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai is laughing.]] Most of the provisions on data processing are excluded from the legislation. Thank you for your statement, Madam Vice-President. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You're welcome.]] XCVII of 2013 on military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations is also imminent. revision of the Act, to which these data processing provisions will be transferred. However, this will also need to be coordinated with the revision of the Law on the Status of Patrons. All elements of the new defence and security structure should be ready by 2023. We have a lot of work ahead of us, but in any case, the defence and security reform with this bill has arrived at another milestone. I believe that I can wholeheartedly recommend this proposal to my fellow Members. The Fidesz fraction definitely supports this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2021-11-09-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Fellow Members! It is in addition to the argument that the regulation of the armed protection system is in line with the emergency situation that has been triggered by security changes over the past period, and in particular expert analyses have highlighted the need to amend it. Also, legislation limited to immediate reactions in the course of the Ukrainian crisis has demonstrated that there is also a much greater concept of the protection regulation that has been ours over the past period, which has been haunting us since 1989, and has been partly regulated in the Fundamental Law or previously in the Constitution. But the migration challenge, the challenges of terrorism, have all supported, in particular, the rapidly changing security environment of the past period, the need for it and the government considered that the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law was necessary. With the Government going through the amendment and doing so, whoever says 'a' must also say 'be', the following acts must also take place. Thus, as we went through the change and simplification of the extraordinary legal order, on which it was also exciting to read the previous professional debates on this, which began in 2018-19, and at the end of the year, they were so to say crystallized in the legislation, so, as a need for these, that we are here today's amendment. When you read this bill, the steps a, b, and c, so you take into account what is missing, and I focused on that, and I would like to give you a look at what else should be coming next in the area of legislation. Because it is clear that it is necessary in this system to amend the status of the President of the Republic and in some way to redefine his powers. I think it's one of the things that comes with a regulatory need for his role. It is expected that the police and national security services will also have to make a detailed re-regulation of this matter or the launch of legislation such as the present one. However, decisions to participate in military operations will need to be reviewed and amended, but, for example, in the field of border surveillance, border protection or counter-terrorism, all of the following steps will be needed. When we are talking about this, and perhaps one of the most important things here is that we all need to touch them, and we need to make some sort of short-term or complete legislative amendment, I have to say that perhaps there is a place for the opposition or the objection I have said earlier, that it is not certain that this should be launched at the end of a parliamentary term, with the entry into force of a next parliamentary term. This may have a basis for existence, because we can see that it is not only the extraordinary legal order and then the defence, but also the amendment of many very important institutions mentioned in the Fundamental Law that need to be implemented by mid-summer 2023, which requires a very large degree of legislation, and which, in my view, now that we are in the vicinity of a cycle change, is not certain that it can be achieved by Parliament, given the shortness of time; especially in this case, it is very often appropriate or necessary to seek professional consensus, even if it was surprising to me that the response of scientific workshops or scientific life is different in defence and in this field of security policy. I have dealt with health, and I still consider health as the closest thing to me, where, if there is a government proposal, even at regulation level, practically dozens of experts will outline different scenarios in two days' time, and hundreds of studies will be generated, and everyone has a defined opinion on public thinking and policy. It is much more difficult to collect them from defence, much more closed circles, or scientific workshops that discuss them, or opinion leaders who may speak, probably, by reason of the nature of defence and of this sector, feel less that they should immediately share their views and perhaps form an opinion, whether in opposition to official leadership. [[14.40]] So what I wanted to say very carefully is that it is very difficult to judge how the profession or those working in the security policy view the radical change that has taken place in the past period, given that the need for a change that has been induced by the profession and taken over by the government has gone through, and now the reviews are read from relatively few places. One thing is certain, and I think it should be said here that I do not want to multiply the words, because my Fidesz fellow Member has told me his essence and his legislative solution, how the wallet was prepared to amend this law, it must be here, in any case, what further steps the Parliament will take. Even if we participate in the debate in a narrow manner and few fellow Members hear this, they should know that, in the coming period, if the government and the wallets concerned want to do so and can implement it, we will have to participate in countless amendments, even if the President of the Republic, or even further law enforcement bodies, or other bodies working in information security, have to amend the relevant sectoral rules. He's got a big ax in his hand. Perhaps this tree cannot be carved in its entirety right now, perhaps it would have been worth waiting for a next cycle, or to start the changes in this direction much earlier in the cycle. This is the critical point I was trying to make in the debate. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, the lead speaker and group leader of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about an important law here in Parliament today, and I believe that in Mr. Minister's introduction and introduction, there have been a great deal of important elements that have been said about what justified the drafting of a new defence law. It must have been a big dilemma, since a comprehensive amendment or a new law is a dilemma in itself, but the big question in itself is what it is about and what justified the drafting and dissemination of the new law itself. In view of the fact that we are living in a very rapidly changing world, I really cannot stress the fact that the 21st century The century has been a century of challenges, full of danger, visible and invisible threats, and it is not easy to meet neither the legislative power in any country today, nor the executive power to guarantee the safety of its citizens. And that is the most important thing that a government should develop a structure in which the bodies responsible for security are in place, because one of the most important reasons and motives for the establishment of states was that in ancient times I would refer to the Greek city states to guarantee security for their citizens. This is why people pay taxes, among other things, to serve the conditions of safety and prosperity. So in a rapidly changing world, it has always been difficult to guarantee safety, but in a rapidly changing world, the 21st century. During the century, challenges have been particularly difficult, especially by introducing appropriate legislation at the level of fundamental law, which can be expected to be stable, long-term and effective. However, the environment is changing to such an extent and the government has not only been able to detect these changes, not only to take the necessary measures, but also to establish the legal basis for this, which is why we are discussing the establishment of a new defence law today. Ladies and gentlemen, We can certainly see that the number of safety risks has also increased significantly. I could also say that it has become enormous, because it has never before been the result of this type of danger, including the change and development of technology, technology and various battle procedures, various pressures... [[Noise in Jobbik's expert box. Dr. Agnes Vadai approaches the box.]] Meanwhile, someone fell. Feel better. So we pay attention to everything, the first is safety, physical safety and integrity. Now, back to the law: so it has emerged from the words of those who spoke before me and of the Minister, in particular, that we need to make our security approach more complex, because there are more and more threats, and we need to expand this safety net more and more, this umbrella above our citizens. I would like to mention this, as the role of armed forces in the current challenges is obviously not possible, although it is very, very important to protect against external threats, military attack, to protect and detect the country's territory from possible military conflicts, but the most important thing is that our fellow man is conscious of these times, because there cannot be a policeman or a soldier on the side of everyone. So no state can provide anything in this sense; and it is a good opportunity to draw the attention of our fellow citizens to the great value of security in the debate of such a law. We really know that when we don't, no one likes to live in fear. At the same time, the task of the armed forces, i.e. the Hungarian Defence Forces, is essentially to deter aliens and protect the country's territory and its population in the event of an attack on the country's external military attack. I note that only in parentheses, referring to the previous thought that Article XXI So, in the century, today's security cannot be created and preserved only with weapons, so I say that we need a complex interpretation of our concept of security. The new defence law, which lies before us now, has been preceded by a protection law that the Minister and my colleague, Mr Simon Miklós, spoke about, was indeed important. For me, it is still not the time for me, however, but sooner or later I think we need to think about not having to have a code of defense that will describe our visible, visible and visionary ability as much as possible, and using the dangers, challenges, threats that not only a defense law should be answered, not only a defence law, but in a comprehensive way, because the importance of human protection and civil protection today is as strong and important as the question of military defence. He referred to the age of warfare in relation to hybrid warfare. There are many different wordings on these issues. Some people are the 21st. It describes the century as the age of the multicolored war, and the Chinese say that we have entered the age of unlimited warfare; everyone knows the Gerasimov Doctrine. There is war everywhere, practically in every battlefield: earth, sea, air, cosmic space, universe and cyberspace, yes, in the age of information societies, there are huge opportunities in this too. If we go back to what Clausewitz said in his book "Vom Kriege A About War," which he said during the Napoleon Wars, based on his experience: of course, war is the continuation of politics by other violent means. But basically, the item that was about forcing our will on another country is forcing will on it, strengthening it by our influence, and even by exerting pressure on it, is what we would like the state that would not otherwise do if we did not apply it in the world of information society. So there is no need for military pressure, although the army also has a kind of deterrent role, a deterrent role from the toughest and most serious armed conflicts. That's why we know the historical overview. People dealing with literature say that the period of modern warfare can be divided into four phases of warfare. The first generation is practically the era of the mass armies from the peace of Venezia to the end of the 1800s. After that, considering World War I, firepower is the most important weapon culture, which has decided many things regarding the role and possibilities of artillery, and then the importance of the mechanized divisions in World War II, and this has been the main mark on warfare, thinking about the military divisions, and at the end of it, nuclear weapons and nuclear devices. CHAPTER XXI And it's not a question of hybrid warfare. All means can appear in every field, at all levels, and not only weapons, but also other means, there is also the possibility of political, diplomatic, financial pressure in view of the spirituality of today. To the details of the law, allow me to add: the fundamental reason is indeed the issue of the right of periods other than peace. After all, we have already adopted a decision, an amendment to the basic law, which will enter into force from 1 July 23. Indeed, when one looks at this, it is important in this regard to the potential of public bodies, organisations and people in so-called crisis situations, in a rule of law, and in what way these freedoms may be restricted. In a constitutional rule of law, efforts must be made to ensure that, if not all lifelike situations, but in such important cases, when there is a crisis, the country remains operational. [[14.50]] I fully and fully agree with the KDNP faction that the executive power, i.e. the government, must be endowed with additional rights in crisis situations, he is responsible for guaranteeing the safety of the people, and obviously the armed and law enforcement bodies which, by the way, are professionally responsible for their commitment to security and protect our citizens. So this in itself is a perfectly clear and correct intention and direction. This also has a historical character, because if we go back to the period of system change, then basically we saw that we started with three special, then qualified period facts and status: this was the emergency state, the state of emergency and the emergency. The state of emergency basically meant the state of war, the war, didn't it? This will be maintained from.23 with state of war expression and term technique. In addition, the state of emergency, which can be a form of internal social anarchy, armed rebellion, group rebellion. The emergency in which we are living, for example, in the event of an epidemic or, where appropriate, a natural and industrial disaster, can be declared. These three remain. Indeed, in the course of the last thirty years, this circle was expanded, and the intention of the legislator was clearly to try to picture these situations, because, for example, during the Yugoslav War, the Hungarian Parliament made a decision not to have to announce that if a free team were to get lost and come through, and the sense of security of our fellow citizens on the border would be greatly impaired, the state of war and the state of emergency should not be declared, but some protection measures should be taken, so the Parliament adopted the case of the unexpected armed invasion and unexpected armed attack. This increased the possibility of qualified period statuses to four at the time. After that, in 2004, when we had huge debates on the general military commitment regarding the termination of the military service, the majority of the MSZP-SZDSZ government decided to accept in the Constitution an item called a preventive defence situation, which provided a 60-day lauf for the possibility that if the country entered the front door of the war, it would be possible if the international situation escalated, so to say, to restore the military service or the general military commitment. Thank God we didn't have to announce such a case. In 2017, during the period of the migration crisis, I had the opportunity to propose, as ministers, yes, to do so and to amend it, and also to introduce the case of an increasing terrorist threat and terrorist attack into the Fundamental Law. Parliament has done this, too, quite rightly. They all remain at the level of law, regulated in implementing regulations, of course. On the basis of the new rules, as I referred to, from 1 July 23, three remain, and the other three are partly regulated by the Defence Act, the Police Act and the Disaster Protection Act. I think it's the right thing to do, we can't increase the number of special legal cases indefinitely, because then we should constantly amend the Fundamental Law, because there are new threats, which I referred to at the beginning. Nevertheless, it is worth considering the Code of Crisis Management in the long term. I have written a few things down for myself, just because opposition or left-wing representatives would think that it is only a compliment to my contribution. [[Zoltán Balczó: Na!]] I would like to make a well-meaning observation, but it may just be my interpretation of the law that is wrong. Article 1 Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act states that all persons residing in Hungary participate in the preparation and implementation of personal service. As I understand it, so are the foreign fellow citizens who work here. I don't think so, so it's worth thinking about. Maybe I'm the only one who's misinterpreting it, but maybe it's worth paying attention to that sentence. So I think all Hungarian citizens. The fact that a person staying in Hungary is coming here as a tourist and declaring a condition may not be the luckiest. My second point is this: it is very right and very important that defence education is included in paragraph 6. I support it to a great extent so that it will continue to grow stronger. And it is very good that it also expresses the strengthening of defence awareness with regard to the government, because the defence awareness strengthens the security awareness and the sense of patriotism of our fellow citizens, so it must be appreciated. There's one thing I'd like to draw attention to. This is where the powers of the President of the Republic were mentioned by Congressman Luke. I do not want to comment on this, but the Parliament had an opportunity earlier to decide on the number and internal stock ratios of the Hungarian Defence Forces. This does not appear in the law, it is not necessarily justified, but I believe that Parliament is always guaranteed, so I think it is worth considering. I know there's been a transformation, and the command of the Hungarian Defence Forces has been established, but now it's like being a chief of staff or a chief of staff. We know that in 1803 the Prussians created the Joint Chiefs first. I could still quote Saposhnikov, the Russian classic who said that the Joint Chiefs are the brains of the army, so it's a field of strategic thinking. Obviously, the command can give us the opportunity to do so, but I would like to ask that the general staff, as such, can still use it, because only the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces is included in the law. One more: 70. Paragraph 1 states that the military service is performed in peace on the basis of voluntary application. I think it's possible to find the potential war force or something, but the soldier is a soldier, I mean, he's in the army, he's no longer volunteering for military service, he's already in there. I was thinking that if there's a problem and I'm trying to protect the country. So it's not the military, it's the citizens or the potential military. Basically, a very serious and large work that lies before us, practically hundreds of them, I wrote myself, perhaps 118 sections, along with the provisions of entry into force 17 chapters. It's a great job, so I can only congratulate the Department of Defense. In the end, in a few minutes... I no longer have ten seconds, let me stress that human safety and civil protection are therefore increasingly linked to the issue of human safety; the defence culture is also changing, my fellow Members. So we have to pay attention to this, and that's what people expect us to do. Of course, the KDNP fraction supports the bill before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-11-09-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. We are less pleased with the bill, and our opinion is quite devastating, which I will therefore briefly describe, but not in a sentence. In our view, this is not a new defence law, there are no major strategic differences or changes here, there is one, the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, and we see the transfer of new rules made by the Hungarian Defence Act, which, in our view, do not arise in anything other than the fact that the system of brakes and counterweights made at the time of the change of regime is systematically, deliberately, systematically, to the extremes, and practically allow the Hungarian Defence Office to be systematically deployed against civil citizens, and nothing else needs to do so, not even the two-thirds majority of the Hungarian National Assembly, even most of them, the members of the Hungarian Government or the Prime Minister's single decision. I do not think that a decent Democrat can support such a bill in government, opposition, right, left or middle. Minister, is it innovation that the Defense Council has been abolished? An institution that systematically guarantees that if the country is in the greatest trouble, so it drifts into war and people's lives need to be saved, then the Hungarian politics is in any position, would this institution guarantee that the government and opposition, sitting on a board, should, as such, defend their country with complete consensus as a front government? Why the hell did that bother you? Tell me. Why did it bother you that, in such a situation, the Fundamental Law itself, the Constitution, that all the actors in politics would sit at a table and put everything they had to protect their country? How to squeeze out of this, to push out the opposition that we see at the moment, which, for example, is lying the proportion of parliamentary seats in the last election, has received 40 percent or more votes than the current governing parties, but has only been divided, so it has fewer seats in Parliament. I don't think that's normal. [[15.00]] Nor is it normal, either, Minister, to return to the fund, to the foundation, to the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, that they themselves have taken a little bit of the concept of state of emergency so carefully, but yet strongly sneak two words, that it must be an act of violence, which is happening in the country, so that the state of emergency, which is the toughest emergency situation in Hungary, is virtually no longer different from the state of war or the state of emergency to be declared by the government. So I'm gonna make this simple, and I'm gonna try to make it clearer. If the constitutional order is overturned, this state of emergency may be declared and the fact that it must be violent has been removed. Well, tell me, how is the subversive of the constitutional order peacefully, how is that going to happen, and who's going to decide that this is it? ! A protest on the street, is that what it's gonna be? If one proclaims civil disobedience, will it be a peaceful attack on the constitutional order, and at this moment you can declare this legal system? And from the next morning or from that moment on, the Hungarian Defence Forces can be used armed against their own citizens? Well, how can you support that, Minister? ! How can you applaud in any way or give a vote to anyone? ! (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And while the number of special legal orders has been reduced, I look at my fellow Member Simicskó, because then if anyone knows this topic, but there is almost no difference between the three. There is one common certainty, and we have seen it here, during the outbreak of the virus, that regulation governance with these rubber rules is virtually unlimited. There is no specific list of devices, but what serves the purpose, and they can use virtually anything, change, rewrite, use. I think it's amazing. And once again, back to the Defense Council, there's no one involved in these decisions but the government itself, so it's completely unlimited and uncontrollable, not to mention they can extend it for as long as they want. I almost jumped my fellow Member Simicskó, I wrote it down on the paper, but at least he made it clear. I look at my fellow Member Simon, how could it be with great pleasure to support a Hungarian Member of Parliament that the remaining powers of the Hungarian Parliament are being taken away by this law? I quote: the main directions and conditions for the implementation of the principles of Hungary's security and defence policy are still defined by the Hungarian Parliament. These are strategic issues, not tactical or enforcement issues. The principles of defence policy and the main directions of implementation are also taken away from the Hungarian Parliament. Well, how can a congressman applaud this, but it's good that this law has finally been introduced, and I won't have anything to do with it in the future, and then the government will decide everything for me. Obviously needs, tastes and slaps. But I think that the Hungarian Parliament, for example, cannot waive this right, just as the number of members of the government, apart from determining the permitted theoretical number, will have virtually nothing more to do with the Hungarian Parliament, so you can decide on the person of the Minister of Defence, along with the members of the government, share a good day! As they say. That the President of the Republic will be transferred to the Prime Minister, that the armed defense plan will only be approved by me, so five people will decide in one room or ten people in this situation from now on. I understand that responsibility is also theirs, and I just think once again that, in such a situation, the political institutions of national cooperation and the creation of unity should be maintained in any way. That the right to use weapons is extended by this proposal and then I will read that the duties of soldiers are to be performed with the right to use weapons: to guard and protect events designated by the Government. Don't we have enough of these already, apologies, well-equipped police and paramilitary units? So the Counter-Terrorism Center, the Alert Police, the Parliamentary Guard, with their various grenades and sniper rifles and grenade launchers, aren't they enough to jump this somehow? I'd like to ask you something. Involvement in the personal support of protected persons. It's the same thing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Contribute to the World. in the areas of defence and crisis management, in particular in addressing threats to public order and public security to a significant extent and in the context of coordinated defence activities. This is the most beautiful rubber rule I'd like to discuss separately. So, there's this security and security event in case of coordinated defense activity. In the event of a serious or prolonged defence and security incident, the defence can also be used in this respect against the Hungarian civilian population in Hungary, if apparently the force of police or other armed law enforcement agencies would not be enough, but who will determine it is obviously the same ten people. Here's the thing: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A serious event affecting the supply, security or continuity of the population, a crisis or an emergency other than a special legal order as defined by law; a disaster or a risk thereof; a serious event affecting the order of the state border and its preservation. It's not something that's happened, it's something serious. The serious threat to legal order, public order and public security. I will not list any more now, these are all the rubber rules, and in each case, in the framework of a coordinated defence activity, in respect of the defence and security event, you or the government at all times, and then let us look into the future, because there may be no Orbán government for ever, and you may not think so, so the government at all, and in these cases, we will discuss a lot of other gastrointestinal things, and we will also discuss them in a later law today, for example, you can also do the restriction of the Hungarian media, the non-state, but at least with the right to use of weapons or the right of assistance, at least in any way, Hungarian soldiers can be used here in virtually any way on matters of law enforcement against the civilian population. We're not okay with this, Minister. So it would be okay if the Hungarian police, its countless secret services, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, disaster control, I do not know what else there is in recent years if they could maintain Hungary's internal order. Money, steed, gun. The Hungarian Defence Office and Hungary would guarantee our integrity, security and protection against external attacks in any way, and we would not confuse the two. But when they can't keep the stock, they can't hire new men, the defense is in a slightly better position than the police, that's a fact and a bit true, but you know it, Minister. That when we're about to negotiate a law soon, where the Ministry of Interior intends to use armed security guards to guard the Hungarian state border at the southern state border? You're out of cops? There's no one left to conduct? How many times have we told you that without a stable, normal staff, such a task cannot be performed; the soldiers are also down there. We believe, Minister, that this defence law is not right, because the direction, the concept, their attitude at all, their relationship to power is completely disoriented for us. And there are times in Hungarian and world history when people think they're all-powerful, and all the power limits and brakes and counterweights, that's all so stupid that it's just gonna keep me from doing my job more efficiently, more beautifully. This is a better solution, Minister, the worse solution, which only considers them to be the limits of its own unlimited power and money. And these times always end in tears, usually a lot of people die. It was the same in this country every time. So we're asking you to stop on this road. Stop on this road, because it can't be different than crying. Those brakes, counter-weights, if you will, in this area too, some kind of cooperation between the opposition and the government at national level must be maintained institutionally in crisis and emergency situations, because a government and a country do not have the power to make laws capable of deciding everything in one room at the end of it by five or ten people, but by being able to bring the whole country to their side. That's not what this law does. Thank you so much for listening. [[15.10]]
u2021-11-09-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. We'll get back to work. The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-09-67	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us 1. Paragraph 1 of Article 2 (1) states that defence is a national matter. In this House, we have discussed a lot of things, but perhaps in this one, if not everything else, but in this one we agree. The weird thing is that some of the pro-government representatives who are arguing with me, not with us, not with us, with the same idea of defence, think of this as a national matter, and consider us, opposition representatives, to be part of the nation, if we agree. In all other cases, they embody the nation. This is what we always listen to on the Defense and Police Committee, that the nation, you can talk about a national matter, if it matches the Fidesz-KDNP's position. The situation is now, it is obvious and clear that in this bill, and in general in the whole process that the Minister spoke about in his speech, there is no agreement between us, and not because we do not think that defence is a national matter, but because we think that this issue should be regulated differently. You may remember, and the Minister said that this process started with the ninth amendment of the one-party Fundamental Law, with the amendment of which the preliminary discussion, the debate on this, was somehow omitted, fellow Members. I do not recall a discussion where the pro-government representatives with opposition representatives, either in a closed committee meeting or in a public or in Parliament or in a scientific manner, before the proposal was submitted, therefore, before the proposal was submitted, we would have had a good professional debate. It wasn't like that. Then he wasn't at the next bill that the Minister spoke of, and he wasn't at the moment. So, in Hungarian, a bill has been introduced, in a case that concerns the nation as a whole, including us, the citizens behind us, who, by the way, Minister, I would like to point out that the Hungarian Defence Forces and all the armed and police forces must be protected in the same way as those behind you. It's a very important thing. So, there was no debate about these billings and the concept in general. As early as the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, we have made it clear that the idea that you would like to do in this is pushed through Parliament with the strength of your power, and that is what we see, so I know exactly that we are talking about the future here, and a little bit of the protocol, and maybe the citizens who are dealing with the matter of defence. Congressmen are obviously not that many of us, but it's been like this for years, which is my great sorrow. With your strength, you will push through the concept of simplification not only in the special legal situation, but also in the systematic reduction of the rights of Parliament. The title of the bill is:. This bill is about the power of Viktor Orbán. There are obviously parts in which the activities of the Hungarian Defence Forces are concerned, but basically about the possibility for the Prime Minister to make a single decision in an otherwise special legal situation. I understand that your world sees Viktor Orbán as infallible. We do not view him or anyone as infallible; we believe that collective wisdom, even if we think differently about the world, is especially necessary in a special legal situation. I believe that what is listed by my fellow Member Simicskó, who is, by the way, an expert in the special legal situation and cannot be denied, has also written his doctoral dissertation, and I think that it is worth relying on this knowledge, and on the knowledge of many others on this subject, is worth drawing on. In paragraph 6 of Section 6, when you talk about defence awareness, I think there is no debate between us. I find this defense education and patriotic education a bit excessive, which you would like to represent here. Believe me that a very large part of Hungarian citizens in this country, there are always 1-2 percent who do not, but a very large part of them love their country terribly, just let them love their country, and do not always want to tell them how to love their country! Don't tell me it's a patriotic education to love this country. We think there's a lot of ways. I see no problem with that, and I think that there is no debate between us, and the bill is obviously talking about this, that there is a need for some kind of awareness process, but we should not always talk about it at all costs, and that is actually harassing citizens who love their own country sufficiently, who like it, who like it. I am very, very in favour of raising defence awareness. I would suggest that you start with security awareness and defence awareness on your own party of government, and once that is settled, then citizens can be given an ecce. Events in recent weeks have shown that security awareness does not always reach the highest level of the Defence and Police Committee. By reading the interpretation provisions, and also in the ministerial expoze, I was particularly pleased that the Hungarian Defence Office was finally moving towards modernity and dealing with cyber security and autonomous weapon systems. Minister, I am sure you know, or perhaps you are aware, that I have become Vice-President of the Scientific and Technology Committee of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where we have specifically addressed the issue of autonomous weapons systems on my initiative. However, not only the question of the application of these autonomous weapons systems, but also the ethical and moral issues that arise in relation to the application, and the biggest problem on this subject is once again what I told you in the previous Vbö. law that I do not see the man, the Hungarian citizen, in this bill, in addition to everything that has been said here clearly from my fellow Member Belling. The use of autonomous weapons systems, Minister, as we understand these security challenges, and obviously you and many of the Members have seen such a weapon myself, and I know what a challenge it is for NATO and Hungary in it, but we Members must draw attention to the fact that there is also a moral side to this which needs to be addressed. I understand that this cannot be discussed in law; I understand that this issue cannot be dealt with at Parliament's meeting, because there are many things that you clearly do not want to deal with, but it must be settled together with our allies, because, as much as the challenge is with these weapons systems, especially when they are used, we can never forget that we democratically thinking Members cannot behave as those who use these instruments with bad intentions against us. So I would very much like to see, in these matters, as Mr Lu-kács may have said earlier, scientific discussions, scientific discussions that enlighten Members, because I can tell you, Minister, that what is happening at the meeting of the Defence Committee is that the pro-government representatives don't talk, they just sit around and vote for everything. All discharges from public procurement have been voted out, and this bill will be voted out, because a large part of them have no idea what is in this bill, while there is obviously and obviously an exception on the pro-government side, only Mr Simicskó is not a member of the Defence Committee, and we are expressing serious concerns towards you, both orally and in writing. You were quite right to say that today the period between peace and not peace is blurring many times, and I would put it more precisely that the entire period of security and not complete security is, if you understand what I mean, but this is not a reason to introduce, by the power of the law, an emergency arrangement where you, as a minister, order an emergency, a defence emergency, and people here can do whatever they want. Because on that basis, and not only on the grounds of the medical crisis and the general emergency, but in this law, it's a special legal situation that you order. Well, the world has never seen a law order a special rule of law. That's a different time from normal. As far as I know, the reason we've recorded these at constitutional level is because it's a different time than normal. [[15.20]] I understand what you're saying, Minister, and what the MPs are saying, but you have to react quickly, quickly, quickly, everything, everything. Do you think that if there is such a situation, that the opposition representatives who are equally concerned about their country, who love their country, for example, in a Defence Council, which will work for a while and then disappear, do you not understand this? Do you think that if you decide these things on your own in any exceptional legal situation, then that's the solution? Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. You represent one half of the country, those who voted for you, and we represent the other half of the country. There's no reason why our ancestors invented it... you don't represent it, I'm sorry, right now, you haven't represented the voters behind us with a single bill, you haven't met any of the demands they've made through us. In fact, what we're seeing now is the plan that I don't understand at all is that you want to exclude yourself from handling defense matters in the event of an extraordinary legal order. So this bill will come into force in 2023, and we hope that you will no longer govern this country. As much as this bill is going to be, I believe that in an extraordinary legal order, there must be an emergency, a health crisis, complementing this defence law, we will expect you, we will expect your opinion, your position, because I think that in times of particularly crisis and difficult situation, there is a need for political rivalry with each other, the parliamentary representatives representing voters in Parliament to find a common voice. The big problem is that this has not gone very well in the last 11 years, and it is particularly bad, Minister, that we are not able to find this common voice in the context of defence matters. My fellow bell ringer [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's gone.]] He explained the concentration of power already represented by the Fundamental Law, the Law of the World and, obviously, this bill. I warned the political representatives, whether in government or opposition, that such proposals would always come back, and I warned them not to take the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in this direction. My fellow Member Simicskó has already pointed out that the Hungarian Defence Office seems to have a sui generis Hungarian military task, but there is also a new set of tasks that we may have experienced here during the time of the emergency and which was ordered by the government, so when soldiers were patrolling the streets, or being administered in hospitals, or being thermometered. These are not typical tasks of the Hungarian Defence Service, and these are not military tasks. If we are talking about this area, if there are problems of this type, it is more a part of civil protection. So it should be considered at some point, and perhaps it was the Member of Luke who pointed out that it was not enough to enter the Parliament with just one element of the system, and that a complex, comprehensive thought was needed. All I see is that it is the easiest way to accomplish these tasks through the army, because if, by the way, the Hungarian Defence Office was an infinite organization, which is not, so they should also be at the border, they should also measure the people who arrived at the hospital and perform an international mission, and they should also carry out their duties arising from the basic order. I think the only way that this is going is if you play chess with the numbers, and if you involve those volunteer reserveers, a significant part of whom has been forced into the voluntary reserve system, I apologize to them for their service allowance, because that's what they now call it, almost taxing them. Summa summarum, I would like to say to you that, while we have a terrible belief that these situations need to be resolved, we need to find solutions where we can react quickly, but if you want to remove the lead role of Parliament from this role, and if you want to take the opportunity from the hands of the elected representatives of the people to tell the government that so far and no longer, if you want to take that opportunity out of Parliament's hands to get information and decide, it is a fatal mistake. This will not serve either the Hungarian Defence Service or the settlement of the extraordinary legal order. It will serve you to vote nicely. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The 133 brave pushes it through, and then there's a change, that's what we're hoping for, and then there'll be new winds in this country. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2021-11-09-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is also an opportunity to debate with a push-button. In this connection, I would like to ask my fellow Members who would like to take part in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-09-69	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor and, above all, welcome back to the pulpit. I would like to comment very briefly on one question: I am not an expert in the defence field. Only when it constantly comes to the need for an immediate and swift decision and therefore Parliament must be eliminated, I would recall part of my period of representation between 1998 and 2002. When the NATO campaign against Serbia was under way, the Hungarian Parliament had a lot of permissions to decide on team movements and aircraft passage, then we Members had to give our telephone number availability in order to be able to convene the Hungarian Parliament immediately, on a given day, on the day when it was necessary. It has not occurred to me that the convening of Parliament would be impossible and that a parliamentary session with a quorum could not be convened in such a serious situation. Maybe at the time, I know, it was too much, maybe it wasn't enough for the government's license, but it was for the Parliament's. I just wanted to say that, in a technically feasible way and in principle, it did not occur to the Parliament not to retain any important sovereign decision because an urgent decision was needed. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-11-09-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr István Simicskó, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Let me briefly respond to the suggestion made by Ms Agnes Vadai, let me make a few comments. I am open to talking about the country's security, security, even at multi-party forums and events. I can see the shortcomings of civil protection myself, but I approach it from the fact that the Hungarian Defence Office is a well-organized, hierarchyal body, and they were able to play a role both in the construction of border protection, border fences, and then in the protection and then in the management of hospitals. So let's be proud of that and thank the soldiers for their work. This was a huge task, and it is still what the Hungarian soldiers are burdened with. And on the reserve system, let me just say that Imre Szekeres must have had an important reserve system, but it was so important as a defense minister that the country had a reserve of 17 in 2010, it is now approaching or perhaps exceeding 11,000 people. So much can be said, but that this Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has done a great deal for the Hungarian defence and builds the base of the reserve system, it is certainly worthy of recognition. With regard to the powers of the Parliament, yes, I myself referred to the fact that the Parliament had such a licence, or still has, the possibility of deciding on numbers and internal stocks. However, I believe that the issue of the Defence Council is interesting, because, among other things, factions leaders could be involved when the Defence Council is a state of emergency, when a state of war is declared. This is very specific, because, for example, every member in the Defence and Police Committee needs a C-type inquiry, the strictest national security control, the faction leaders, let's say, in the event of a war, every group leader in such a body where confidential information is available. I'm not sure it would have been the luckiest thing if the Defence Council had actually supplied its activities with such a composition and in this way. Parliament's powers of control remain through the committee, and otherwise the government's obligation to provide information remains, so I see nothing wrong with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-09-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker was Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[15.30]]
u2021-11-09-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr Simicskó that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has never been through a national security check, and I think that this is enough to explain when I initiated it myself, because I think that everyone should go through it. I would add, in war conditions, so obviously in circumstances like this, we assume each other, or at least I assume you are, I don't know if you're right the other way around, but that all the faction leaders want to serve their country. So the fact that there was an information obligation that is now being removed and that this institution is clearly being removed, thus excluding the opposition part of the Parliament, and only to the pro-government part, there too, is obviously the possibility of making decisions, hence the responsibility, is an option, but we basically believe that in this type of case, in special legal matters, it is the common, collective wisdom that helps. What you are talking about, what tasks the Hungarian Defence Office has performed and how it has done, I think we have never questioned between the walls of this house that the Hungarian Defence Office is working well, that is, that it works well in this regard; it was rather a criticism of the work of the Ministry of Human Resources, which was not able to operate, and of the government, which was unable to run the system properly. Thank you very much, of course, for the soldiers. One question, of course, is it really the job of the Hungarian Defence Agency to carry out administrative tasks at the hospital and measure the body temperature of those who arrived at the hospital, and also to patrol with the police? This has not always improved the sense of security, for the average citizen is not accustomed to the soldiers on the street, but to the police. If this is a plan from now on that the lack of police force will try to compensate for the fact that the remaining soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, who are not on a mission, are not working in the barracks, they are prepared, they are not at the border, they are not at body temperature, they will be patrolling, this could also be a concept. It's just what I've been talking about, that's exactly what you said, and that's the settlement of civil protection issues, which this government doesn't want to deal with in any way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-09-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs of the KDNP Group.
u2021-11-09-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, would like to comment briefly on the debate. Congresswoman Vada knows exactly, for example, because she is now in an important position in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I've been elected, I didn't get it!]] Congratulations, Congresswoman, I'm happy for you. I think it's important. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you.]] There, too, we can hear on numerous occasions the superlatives that Hungarian soldiers are talking about in international engagement, both in international missions and in all other Hungarian soldiers, be it the special operation, be it any order, rank soldier. And the fact is, honourable Member, that just an hour and a half ago you did not support, for example, the action against the Islamic State or even the mission planned for Mali, which gives Hungarian soldiers not only experience, but also an increase in our international reputation, but also the commitment of both the European Union and NATO. I would not think so, and I agree with the faction leader here that, for example, you would rightly criticize the fact that, say, fever is what a soldier or not is. So what I think is that if there is an emergency, there is a serious situation, such as the epidemic situation in Hungary now, then everyone does not necessarily have to do things and work that are consistent with their daily routine, but in order to protect the country and to work together, certain decisions must be taken and certain sacrifices must be made. I think in the epidemic situation so far, in the past year and a half, and in the current situation, we can say one thing to our soldiers about this, to thank them very much for the work they have done in hospitals. For example, on several occasions I spoke to a soldier who had to resolve a conflict at the hospital because there was a visitation ban, there was a case where they tried to smuggle drugs into a hospital, and the soldiers had to act decisively to prevent that from happening. The congresswoman also knows exactly how badly the vaccination at the hospital points, for example, was because the soldiers helped the administration, because the soldiers also helped the preparatory work. So I think it's possible to argue details here, but in the case of an epidemic, the role of soldiers can only be spoken in the voice of gratitude and the highest thanks, because I think that's what we do. And we have thanked them on many occasions, and we are counting on them in the next period, because we see that the epidemic situation is not yet over, and we are counting on them in countless situations where the protection of the health and safety of the Hungarian people comes to the fore. I think it doesn't matter that it is a red sludge situation, it is a flood situation, it is a migration situation, it is a Covid situation, we meet with countless situations, but one thing is certain: Hungary and the Hungarian people can count on the Hungarian Defence Office, and I think it is a comforting feeling, and in this respect we should never criticize or comment on such an activity, but thank you, I think it is that simple. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Agnes Vadai has asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-77	I'm sorry Congressman Nacsa just joined us at the end, so... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I was listening!]] I'm glad you did, because you weren't listening well enough, and you obviously don't understand what I'm talking about, but it's not my fault, to be honest, if you can't keep quiet. Here, in today's debate, no one, either pro-government or opposition, criticized the Hungarian Defence Forces, no one criticized the Hungarian Defence Forces. We have said many times that the Hungarian Defence Office has done a very excellent job. However, we have criticised, and we will also judge, the same as the government and the governing parties on this bill, for example, from the basis, from the amendment of the Fundamental Law, the one-party Fundamental Law, to systematically push their own ideas through this House, not even asking the opposition about the special legal situation. I do not think there is any debate that the Hungarian Defence Office has a duty when there is an emergency, but frankly, I think that the Hungarian police have a job to do, and it is primarily the Hungarian police's job to keep order on the streets of Hungary. Obviously, there is no representative of the Ministry of Interior here, and then arrives at the next item, perhaps, and talks about the shortage of the Hungarian police; it is always the view that everything is actually very good, but it does not seem that everything is very good. 'Cause if everything was so good, you wouldn't have had to patrol with the soldiers. If everything was all right in health care and there were a lot of people working in health care, we wouldn't have had to send soldiers there to measure the temperature. My apologies, Congressman, I may not know this correctly, but I do not think that the use of a thermometer is in any way a safety issue, and it is certainly not possible to prevent someone from breaking into a hospital and doing a bad thing there if someone's temperature is measured. So I would just like to say that there was no criticism of the Hungarian Defence Agency's activities here. By the way, I would like to say to the Minister once again that I sincerely hope that our soldiers who suffered an accident at Hodmezővásárhely are better, because, regardless of what we are arguing about defence issues, the health of all soldiers [[The president's ringing the bell.]] his life is very important to us. But we will criticize the government if we see it trying to put decision making in the hands of a person in a special legal situation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-09-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take part in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would now like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tibor Benkő, Minister for Defence, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Tibor Benkő's mark:]] Yes, he does. [[Dr. Tibor Benkő is heading for the pulpitus.]] The minister is coming up to the pulpit, please. [[Dr. Tibor Benkő: Yes, because then the next item is the agenda. Thank you very much.]] Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your valuable contributions. I'd like to respond briefly, and not to all the points, but to sum it up. Allow me to thank Mr Miklós Simon and Mr Group Leader Simicskó for their support and for the critical remark, comment or awareness that we have heard from the Group leader. Now I can say that I will tolerate this, so obviously it is not a person, it is a citizen, and let me not list the rest, so we will obviously improve these. At the same time, I would also like to respond immediately to the fact that there is no such organizational element as the Chiefs of Staff, but what was previously the case was that there was a general staff within the Ministry, the command of the former Hungarian Defence Forces, independent, and that there is still a military representation in the Ministry, under the leadership of the Secretary of State for Defence. [[15.40]] So the military profession, if I may put it this way, has not disappeared from the Ministry, as the minister needs professionals without whom the threefold task before the Ministry is to define the tasks, to ensure the conditions and to carry out the control. I thank Congressman Luke very much for what he said. We fully agree that, in addition to constructive proposals, further amendments are needed. But I also agree that these regulators, measures, instructions and regulations must all be drawn up following each other. What I'd argue with is that he said that I'm not sure it's an election cycle, so I should call it bringing them in on the eve of the day. I wouldn't put it that way. I would rather say that the matter of defence is a permanent, continuous thing, and we do not have to, we must not adapt it to electoral cycles. That is why we are speaking in the same way that Congresswoman Valai said it was a national matter. So it's a national matter independent of party politics. The protection of the country, the safety of the people, cannot be linked to cycles. That is why we are doing this, that the laws that will enter into force from July 2023 must already begin preparing laws, instructions, regulations and putting them into a system. At the same time, I would also like to point out immediately that I have fallen into a bit of a dilemma in Mr Bellozó's voice. He began with the words that it was devastating, there is no fundamental difference. And then he listed a bunch of reviews. This means that the defence law now in force and all that is linked to it, if there is no fundamental change, is now as bad as it is. Because I can draw that conclusion from this comment. About the Defense Council, I don't want to assume it's intentional. Who was the Defense Council made up of? This is, by the way, a 2020 debate that has been concluded. Who was the Defense Council? And who now is the Defense Council? It didn't stop! We assume that the Parliament can be convened in that case as well. We say that the Parliament must work, and not just the faction leaders, not just the government, but the entire Parliament. Let's see if we can replace the Defense Council with this assignment. And then you can talk about how the government narrows it down, or it actually gives you an opportunity for the Parliament to decide on matters. I fully agree with that, Congressman. Here's what he says: he says there should be some level of cooperation. This is what the invitations to multi-party negotiations that have been sent to you have been aimed at. Congresswoman Vada also says that we should have dialogue, because the issue of defence is really about the nation, the Hungarian people. Then I don't know why they didn't accept the invitation, why they didn't attend these events, where these questions could have been discussed. Congresswoman, I agree with you that there is no question of who we are protecting and who we are not protecting. Everyone has to be protected, that's what he said. I don't think the bill contains anything else. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The problem is behavior.]] What?
u2021-11-09-80	Congresswoman, Minister has listened to you. With all due respect, I'm asking you to listen to the Minister. Here you go, Minister. Keep going.
u2021-11-09-81	I don't think that in this law you would see something like protecting one side or just the other side. You're the one who distinguished it, you said they were behind you and the ruling parties. There's no such thing! We're talking about the country and citizens. That's why I don't understand when you tell the difference between who the soldier protects and who he doesn't protect. I think that soldier is still serving everyone. It also serves everyone in this emergency, in the pandemic emergency, regardless of how emotional or emotional they are. I do not quite understand this, and thank you very much for Mr Nacsa's speech on this matter. I don't understand. No matter how I watch the news, I see the soldiers in other countries, they're everywhere, only in this country is the problem of what they're doing in hospitals, because thermometering is not a military task. It's not, but it's helping people, it's supporting them. Therefore, I can only say that we will certainly not agree on this issue. I have also congratulated you on your election, and I wish you a lot of work, but at the same time, in my presentation here, I have made it clear and clear what you are saying. It means that both the design of systems and their operation and the legislation of the autonomous weapons and defence system must be carried out in the course of defence organization, installation and application. And with these devices, and that was my last thought in this proposal, the possibility of human intervention must be guaranteed. I say to Mr Balczó, who, as I see it, left while I was serving at the time of the South Slavic crisis, along the border. You can't combine these things like that and wash them together. There's a phone right now. People can be called out right now. At the same time, I would like to draw Mr Balczó's attention to the fact that there is also a concept of an on-call general, on-call general of the air force, who must make a decision in a fraction of a second and then report to the appropriate bodies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I respectfully ask Minister if he's finished. [[Dr. Tibor Benkő: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Mr. Secretary, you've been up here for your next exposure. That's what I've been reading a little bit hard, for which I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending individual laws in the field of defence and law enforcement until closure. The government referral is T/17433. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Minister for Defence Tibor Benkő, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you are, Minister, your time frame is 30 minutes. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-83	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us, unlike the previous bill, does not mean the creation of a new set of laws, but contains amendments to regulate certain domestic and law enforcement issues on the basis of various legislative changes and operational experience. [[15.50]] The package initiating the amendment, as mentioned above, covers several subjects. One of these issues is the settlement of individual sectoral authority powers. In view of the significant changes in the last year and a half in relation to companies engaged in defence-related activities, and given the powers of the exercise of ownership rights, a solution has been developed to provide a simpler, faster and more flexible regulatory option for the designation of official supervision of the companies concerned. The 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. A motion to amend law establishes legislation on the use of classified information and technical equipment containing classified information required for military activity abroad. The use of classified information in these specific circumstances makes it necessary to supplement the provisions of the law with a new section. This will help us to achieve more effective and multi-directional cooperation abroad, such as in a peacekeeping operation. It is also appropriate to amend the current Defence Act as soon as possible. In addition to the clarifications resulting from the organisational changes in January, it is the clarification of the legislation of cyberspace operational forces that the government does not intend to wait until 2023 in accordance with the requirements of the age. The law of cyberspace operational forces is based on complementing the tasks of the defence with the information operation. The regulatory objective is also to show the division of tasks between the Hungarian Defence and the Military National Security Service in terms of cyberspace operational tasks. Dear House, The issue of rules and data management relating to the legal status of military and defence personnel not only means a change in content, but also a change in quality. The main areas of the amendment to the Law on the Status of Patrons concern the following issues: the determination of the amount of the protection of health benefit, which is supplemented by the introduction of two new bands; the simplification of the remuneration arrangements for the foreign service; the establishment of an adequate legal environment for personal and personal electronic administration for both the military and defence employees; the amendment of certain human rights rules applicable to the military prosecutor and the military judge; the addition of the rules on the remuneration for maternity leave; the addition of the Hungarian Defence Office's data protection register to the data protection register is equally aimed at ensuring the processing necessary for the implementation of the so-called veteran programme or the clarification of the rules on processing of data relating to the identity cards used in the defence sector. Finally, but not least, the presentation of the rules on the transformation of the status of the personnel participating in the basic training of military officers, with the entry into force of 20 August 2022. Through the new regulation, a specific contractual service relationship will be established with the candidates for military officers in the future, which means that candidates for military officers will be in contractual service with the Hungarian Defence Office and in student relations with the National University of Public Service. The primary duty of candidates for military service will continue to be to prepare for the chosen officer's military career. The regulation determines the deviation from the general contractual service relationship with HJ. - If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist. The candidate officer shall be entitled to a salary, the guaranteed rate of which shall be set out in the Act on the Status of Patrons. The main areas of the amendment to the Act on the Status of Defence Staff are: the creation of a fixed-term employment relationship for the duration of the permanent external service and the establishment of additional requirements for psychic fitness. Dear Parliament, Although the package of amendments before us is a combination of provisions, but all its elements are for the protection of the country, I therefore ask for the support of the proposal. Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-84	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Miklós Simon. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We have a legislative package of minor amendments, of which I would like to talk about the most important elements for me. The amendment of the Law on the Status of Patrons is, in my view, the largest of the topics discussed in the proposal. This is where the rules for the transformation of the status of those participating in the basic training of military officers will be introduced, which will enable the candidate students to complete the training within the framework of service from September of next year, in different grades of the year, together with the corresponding remuneration. This measure will certainly further increase the popularity of the track. The arrangements for the payment of maternity leave will also be adapted. This salary is in line with the tax reduction rate, so that no national on maternity leave is put at a disadvantage against civilian parents. Two new bands will be introduced to establish the amount of the protection of health care, so that the country can be provided with a separate amount of care for service providers for 30 and 35 years. In addition, the part of the proposal concerning the Law on the Status of Patrons contains several amendments such as the simplification of the provisions on remuneration for the foreign service, the possibility of unintended damages not exceeding HUF 5 000, the clarification of the rules on the service relationship of military prosecutors and judges, or the possibility of making electronic declarations. In addition to the Act on the Status of Patriots, the amendment of the Act on Defence Data Management emerges from among the other proposals, including the rules on data management necessary for the implementation of the Veteran Programme and the implementation of various scholarship applications. [[16.00]] It should also be mentioned that the regulations ensuring the better functioning of the defence register of the defence are also part of the proposal. So far, I have talked almost only about changes in terms of remuneration, salaries and status, but the bill before us contains in particular a number of regulatory elements that wish to update the laws opened here on the basis of shortcomings, legislative changes and practical experience in the application of the law. I have mentioned some of these, but I would certainly like to mention some of them: the package of laws provides for the possibility of establishing a fixed-term protection employment relationship for the duration of a permanent external service; a more detailed psychic examination of defence employees; an extension of the period of completion of the basic defence training, in view of the circumstances created during an emergency caused by a coronal virus epidemic; a mandate under a post; the exercise of specific powers in the case of companies engaged in activities directly related to the defence interest; the use of a technical tool containing classified information abroad, for example in international practice. Such and similar proposals are therefore a set of legislative proposals before us. The problems and shortcomings identified during the operation of the defence system will be addressed by this draft, in addition to the fact that it aims to increase the appreciation of the military and the attractiveness of the defence field. The Fidesz fraction supports this proposal, and I ask my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the salad law, I would like to ask one thing and to get an answer to a question as to how the change to paragraphs 1 to 3 of the Healthcare Jobs will affect workers, apart from the fact that the year 2019 changed their status by amending their status law. So you're going to be adversely affected by the change in the bill, by the way, by the way, to the workers at the Honvéd Hospital? Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is István Simicskó, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-89	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that on this subject, on the national issue of the protection of the country, we can discuss and discuss practically one afternoon on important legislative amendments and during the general debate on the new law. Although it is customary, it can always be said that it is losing a lot of money, who is not here among our fellow Members, because it is indeed a matter of common concern for all of us. We hope that at some point we will find that Parliament's seats will be full when we are discussing such an important law, even if this is indeed, if I have calculated correctly, the so-called salad law, which, on the other hand, points in the same direction, points in the same direction, and is in fact the human-centred policy that rationalizes, pays attention to the people, the army and the defence staff. So that's what we've always talked about, because that's the most important thing. It is very important that an army has sufficient and up-to-date weapons, but the most important thing is that those who, by the way, perform this service every day, as Minister said, this is a permanent, continuous work, as Kossuth said, that defence is a day-to-day service, so we must not think about party cycles or government cycles, but we really have to present a continuous work. That's what this change-of-the-law package shows. It puts the soldier first. So it contains realistic, reasonable modifications that better express and support the conditions and respect of our soldiers, whether in the foreign service or in the domestic service. So on behalf of the KDNP fraction, I can say that we support the legislative package before us. It is indeed a wide-ranging proposal, because these 13 laws, which we have talked about, which are affected by the amendment before us: it is about health authority activity, OSH, even nuclear energy, the armed security guard, the protection of classified information, the protection of military cyberspace, which has been highlighted by the Minister, I consider it extremely important that we work in this dimension, and that the excellent staff of our Military National Security Service do the best possible work for the security and security of all of us. It is also appropriate to amend the Legal Status Act, and I think that the contractual relationship between the officers is exemplary, and this is an old problem as to how we can remedy this. While the students of the NKE, of course, are engaged with the defence, so it offers a kind of salary for the officers, and it can increase the success and commitment of the field and motivation. Indeed, the external service has always been on the agenda of how to deal with this more rationally, and in this context, it seems that the legislative package before us is a solution. Overall, I can say, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that basically the defence culture is starting to change, and this is a very important thing. So, on the one hand, it is always important to recognize the problems and challenges of our age, especially those who work for safety and are responsible every day. As a Christian Democrat politician, I often quote Father Kolping, who asked God to give him the opportunity, the ability to recognize his own age, the XIXth. In the second half of the century, he could find his problems and give him strength, health, psychic rejuvenation, and sufficient faith to remedy them. I think that, in general, it is important for everyone who serves the community to feel this sense of mission, this mission, and to see it through, and to turn it into active, active, active caring. So, indeed, let us create laws, create laws for the benefit of our human community, and also for the benefit of our national community, so that they can live as safely as possible and that we can help our children to thrive in this way. So the concept of this defence culture must become even more human-centred. This package of laws before us serves this purpose. I was prepared here for the previous debate, and let me say that it is very interesting to say that my research shows that we can count on virtually 200 countries in the world, of which 16 countries have no armies, 22 countries are neutral. And then let me mention a country with neutral status, Switzerland. Switzerland has one of the most powerful armies in the world, a neutral status, no threat to military security in any respect, and yet it maintains a powerful force. In addition, he has 150,000 trained reserve workers and even operates the military service. There are usually 20 to 21 thousand young people serving in the Swiss army each year, and there are 70,000 citizens who are involved in civil protection. I would like to reiterate the importance of this. There will come a time when we may actually be able to talk about this in substance. So, in my view, returning to the law, it is certain that people who are responsible for the security of our country and the security of our citizens must always be valued. I used to say that there are three professions that are widely recognized and respected in a well-functioning society. Of course, every profession is beautiful, every profession is beautiful, everyone, a carpenter, a locksmith, if you can do the best you can, it is worth it in itself, but those who serve the community are the three professions: those who are responsible for our safety, the police and the soldiers; those who work in health care who, if we are sick or our loved ones are sick, can provide them with the ability to heal; and teachers who help us raise our children to an adequate set of values and thus improve our future. That's why I continue to say, and that's what I'm going to do for the rest of my life, that soldiers must be valued. [[16.10]] This amendment shows this, it is moving in this direction, and it is changing the culture that we have built so far and what we have seen since the change of regime. In some ways, the soldiers were the losers of the system change. Now the time has come, both in the budget and in paying attention, so that we can acknowledge their work in a worthy manner. This package of laws supports this. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, My dear fellow Member Simicskó, you said so nicely that I swear that if I hadn't read this law, I might have encouraged my fellow Members on the entire opposition side to vote for it, because this is the prettiest and better it's probably never been for the Hungarian Army. Yes! Here's to the bill, and before that, one more thought. It was also very nice what you said about the three professions. It's just, you know, they've been ruling for 11 years, Congressman. Eleventh year. Ask the teachers what they will say, say, about László Kövér's picture of him hanging around his neck in the '90s, that the country where the policeman earns more than the teacher does is not a democracy, or something very similar that travels half the world. You know, it's easy to talk about people's intentions and plans, but once again, they've been sitting in this Parliament for 11 years with a two-thirds majority, ruling this country, and spending tens of thousands of billions a year on all sorts of things, but certainly not on educators' salaries. As regards the soldiers, first of all, Minister Jumped that part, not by accident, because it does not seem so important for the proposal that, in some cases, the powers of supervision of military industry developments and companies are returned to the Ministry of Defence. This is a very unpleasant subject, which I think, to be honest, we should review for you. I don't think it's normal for military companies and purchasing companies to be out of the control of the Hungarian Defence Agency and a fully civilian body, I believe, to be under the supervision of the ITM. As we can see, Minister Palkovics has already done everything twice, and I do not think that there is any part of Hungarian governance that in recent years has not been absorbed by the Ministry as a small ball. Well, I'm not telling the truth, because there's the other half of the government, and it's at the Pintér Ministry of the Interior, and everything's almost there from the water department to the health department. Obviously, this also shows how the governance structure works. But my first statement, Minister, is that if you've touched this part, and you're re-entering HM, it's probably life, you've realized that you can't hand everything out of your hands, and I think you should have your own wallet, so that the supervision of these companies can go back to the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence. My second statement, and from now on I will be very brief, is that there are a lot, at least some good things in this proposal, which one might even vote for in terms of stock. But for example, why wouldn't 20 have been introduced to ten-year-old candidates? Why not 30? Why not 50, Minister? In today's world, telling a candidate officer that you're gonna be here for ten years, or you're gonna lose everything, I don't think it's necessarily competitive, and it's definitely not gonna replace a real career. There is no force to bring people into this profession, and there is also the risk that it will be so counterproductive that it will reduce even more radically the number of candidates for official training. And I think it's extremely unfair that, outside the senior year, it's also required by law for those already enrolled, so people who didn't start their second-in-command under that condition will be required to have this law ready, you eat, you don't eat, that's what it is; if I understand the text of the law correctly, it's just not going to affect the senior grade. So the subject of a long discussion could be, you know, Minister, every time, at every committee meeting, I would always say that there are countless means to keep the stock. Obviously, one part is the increase in salaries and salaries, although I do not think it is a great comfort to the stock that this year's 10 percent increase will not be taken away from them next year, because at your annual hearing, you called it a great innovation. We have proposed that, if a career system has already been established, it should at least be based on inflation, but rather, it should be raised above it, and that wages and wages would rise fairly in the defence sector as well. I will not miss it, because I deeply believe in it, talking to the people involved, knowing many people involved, that the return of a professional service pension at some level, if not the way it was, we understand that it is not an indispensable part of the career. If they want young people to choose this profession from the beginning of their adult life to the end of their lives, they should see the end of it. Mr. Secretary, even if you say again in your reply how sniffy you are now instead of the service pension system, it's not. There's something you can understand. You don't have to convince me, the soldiers don't think it's okay. Obviously, it's not okay, and obviously the government didn't make the decision at the time by accident and refuse to override it. That this Prime Minister is personal, if not aberration, but his remorse for this sphere, or for what reason, that neither the police nor the Homelanders once again would be willing to return a decent service pension as a single country in the world, which I do not know, but that neither a normal Minister of Interior nor a normal Minister of Defence can be pleased with, I am sure. I would like to try to capacitate you to try to convince your Prime Minister to make a difference in this area, because it would do the best for Hungarian soldiers and their profession. Thank you so much for listening. We cannot accept the bill in this form.
u2021-11-09-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-09-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill, as many have indicated, is a really large salad package of 13 legislative proposals, obviously introducing issues related to defence and some law enforcement from different areas of life. Before I get to the bill, I'd like to make a few clarifications. Minister, we have never divided this country in half. You divided this country into two. At the Defence Committee, Lajos Kósa told me more protected secrets, but I may not tell you a secret if I tell you that it was also said at that committee meeting that we, the opposition representatives, are obviously traitors. We listen to this every time, we are always enemies of the nation if we disagree with you. Do not be mistaken, Minister, we believe that you are equally part of the country, and you are not traitors, but we do not think the same thing about the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces and this bill. So I would like to tell you here that this division and division is not applied by opposition representatives. You're the ones who use it on a regular basis. I am pleased that at least there is no debate in the fact that the Hungarian Defence Forces will, of course, protect everyone regardless of party standing. I just want to ask you, Minister, that you do not confuse yourself with the Hungarian Defense. You're the defense minister, you're a politician, you're implementing the government's defence policy. In this regard, he was quite far away from the Hungarian Defence Forces, as he was in the previous position. As a politician, you are carrying out the government's will, and obviously in these billings, in this salad law, what your Prime Minister requires of you. This is what we have seen in recent years, that there has actually been no independent will here, and the Prime Minister has told us what to do. And that's what you did. I would like to remind you, because we are really talking about a 12-year interval that between 2010 and 15 the army did not really matter. This was shown in the budget. I'm sorry. We spent less than 1 percent of GDP. Even in the time of crisis, in 2008 they will still be playing the ring, so I bring it up to the Hungarian Defence Service more than we ever spent between 2010 and 15 times. Then, after 2015, the crisis caused by mass immigration has occurred, which has been permanent since then, and this is obviously always a good reason to apply for an exemption from public procurement. [[16.20]] By the way, I would like to point out to this House that the ice has been broken at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning, if all is true, then I will begin to see the contracts for the purchases that have been made so far at the Ministry of Defence. I only got eight hours, but the lucky thing is, I learned quick reading in high school, so maybe-maybe I won't get to the bottom of it, but I'll try. The Homeland Security and Police Committee has granted permission. I'm just saying, in the spirit of cooperation, it was a long process until we got to this point, that the committee could decide at all, and I could go see these contracts. So what I would like to say to you is that the Hungarian Defence Agency's activities became important when it was necessary to have someone build the fence, is that there is a debate between us that it was the right thing to do, because border protection is basically a matter of law and order. It is therefore a matter of law and order, and I do not want to open this constitutional debate. In fact, what we see is that in the spring of 2018, and then from 19 onwards, the period from which they spend an unwrong amount of money is poured on the defence wallet; not on man, not on the soldier, but on the acquisition of military equipment. I haven't seen these contracts before, but I've seen treaty amendments before. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I'd like to say to you, too, so the sums you spent on military technology, as you spent it on military technology, leave a little something to be desired. I will be fair if I have looked at the contracts, and I can finally say, or at least not one or two of the Ministry's people, there will be a parliamentary representative in this country who, reading the contracts, will know exactly what, how much and for what purpose they have purchased. And the only reason I opened this part is because it's always said here, Minister Simicskó and Congressman also spoke about how important the military's case has always been and how good it is that we are dealing with the army. It hasn't always been that way, Congressman, I'd like to say. This has accelerated in recent years when the Prime Minister has given the order to go and buy. Let's buy from the Germans, because this will be good politically, let's buy from the Turks, because this will be good politically, and let's go shopping here and there, because maybe the Prime Minister will finally be able to walk into the oval office. And, well, he could walk into the oval office, so there was a price to pay. So I would not say that there was such a great concept of military technology in this, but rather that there was a Prime Minister's concept in this, in which, of course, I can say once again after seeing the contract, whether the value-for-value ratio is good; so that he understands certain things in order to finally, for the first time in his life, to receive an official invitation to the White House, which, I know, was a great experience for him and I do not dispute it. It's too bad this thing happened at such a price. So I understand what you said, Mr President, about how important it is to appreciate soldiers, and there is no debate between us. I would add that I think that the appreciation of teachers is also extremely important, that the appreciation of health workers is also extremely important, and that the respect of Hungarian citizens in general is extremely important, because they are sending us here to the Parliament to work for their sake, for their appreciation. If we look at this bill, I would also like to highlight two areas in principle. According to sleepbooks, bonding to a clot is certainly not in the best interest, which, by the way, would be in a good interest to motivate the young generation in some way to become military officers. So I think it's a good thing, it's a positive thing, it would be really successful if this kind of recruitment went together, and I really think it is. So if I sometimes look at the delegation of the United States of America, who, by the way, are arguing quite firmly in Washington when it comes to such matters, then they can go together because they consider this matter important. But I think that recruitment will certainly not be successful, and it will not achieve its goal if it is pre-ordered to put a binding to a ten-year clot in the bill. Minister, you said that almost minute by minute, every day, the security situation will certainly change, and people will change their ideas and desires, and it may turn out that someone is capable of this task, that someone else is looking for a challenge. I would add that one thing is certain: the activity that, in the next ten years at least, will require a longer term, but in the next ten years, urgently needs a solution, which is the cyber security issue, will certainly not be able to find a candidate for a military officer under such conditions. So there's no IT expert on the planet, and there really is an IT expert who can handle these challenges, who would say that he's going to be dressed in uniform, he's going to accept those strict requirements, and otherwise he's going to be at your disposal for another ten years. No way! So I agree and support the idea that my fellow Member Simicskó said that we should know the challenges. But you have to know people, too. Well, not only do the people of the declining West think that there is a need for continuous movement and learning; in Hungary, too, a lot of young people, who, for example, are expected to help protect in cyberspace, do not think in the way you think or think in a very different way, Minister. And that should be understood. That's definitely not gonna work with the nugget. While we do not dispute that the appreciation of soldiers is extremely important to us, and respect, obviously in addition to payment, is also very important, Minister, and obviously, not only the currently active stock, but also the appreciation of the former stock is extremely important. And I'm not just thinking about retirement here, am I right, there's a lot of debate between us, and we think the name "service allowance" is humiliating and the humiliation that the soldiers who fell into after the change of government had to live through, so what do I say? a campaign, a campaign against uniforms. Now, if we're talking about respect, let me just quote you a sentence. The example must be shown. This army is no longer the people's army, when obese, drunken officers lead the ranks under alcoholic influence. This is a professional force, and we must act like one under all circumstances, said the Hungarian Defence Commander. Minister, would you mind telling the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces not to say such sentences, because that violates those who are involved in this bill, by the way? I'm sure there are people like that. For the record, there have been foolish ministers in the past many periods and foolish Members of Parliament, but that doesn't give them any reason to talk about these people that way. Respect: which cannot be defined by law. The contradiction here is that they talk about a bill, a veteran program, and older soldiers serving their country earlier, and then the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces calls the soldiers who defended this country obese, drunken officers. To add, that's the commander I didn't see very well, otherwise, he would have pinched you when some commanders were sexually harassing their subordinates. And I don't see you getting too hot today either. What I'm seeing is that you're trying to sweep this thing under the rug. For example, if such a question were to be on the agenda in Parliament and such legislative proposals were to come in, which would be much clearer in this regard or show a strategy, I could say that we had finally started talking about the problems. But when you speak of respect and we respect soldiers, while the commander, appointed by you, speaks of the people who were your colleagues, Minister, do not forget that, since you may have a long military career behind you, this damn respect we hear here in Parliament is in question. While there is no discussion between us: if this is a professional army, let it be! Then let this be professionally put together, obviously with professional tools, always renewed, and there is no discussion between us with a career model, which is what Congressman Bellozó has been talking about here, and if it is possible, then I think that professional professional professionalism is how should I put it? It should be taken into account. Because I understand that Maróth Gáspár's person is a guarantee to the Prime Minister that I can be here and there, so what can I say? I'm gonna do a little bit of work to put it that way in defense procurement. But I'm sorry, there's a Ministry of Defence here, there's a Hungarian Army here, and after that, Maróth Gáspár will arrive, who will tell everyone the truth, and by the way, all he does is walk the TVs and the radios from morning to night, and he will share his senses. [[16.30]] Well, Minister, are you in charge of your ministry? Is the Hungarian Defence Commander in charge of your procurements? Or it is what I have talked about before, namely that it was the Prime Minister who determined what kind of military technology should be purchased, what political interest it was, and then he found himself such an expensive good man as Mr Maróth, whom we have seen working in medical procurements, he also acted there to put it mildly, and then he is the one who is manifesting himself in these matters. I don't know, I'm so old-fashioned, conservative. I like to be told by the minister about such matters. In such cases, I like the Minister to submit an exemption from public procurement. I also like that if you're screening slides, less so if it's about me, but if it's about the Ministry's request, then so be it. It doesn't bother me either. But what I don't like is these cases being outsourced, and then the members of the Defense and Police Committee can run around and see when they can see a gun factory purchased in Austria, right? or certain other purchases. Because then the saying that it doesn't belong to us, that's Maróth Gáspár, and he's floating somewhere in the system. So I think it is good that the Ministry decides that certain activities should be taken back in relation to companies. Mr. Secretary, stand your ground and take them all back. Don't let Gáspár Maróth lead the Hungarian Army! Or if he's a middleman who's broadcasting the prime minister's political demand in military technology procurement, that's another thing. I thought, at least, I've always heard from you that procurements are being made that are justified. Then, if you look at the numbers and see how many of them you've bought, it's often the feeling of the person you've been negotiating with that's where you've got some kind of purchase or where you've wanted to get in. I would just like to say that any bill that has something to support is good. But overall, such a proposal, this particular proposal, cannot be supported. And that's because we're ready to work together on the national case, the defence case. The only question now is that you are ready for this. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Mr. István Simicskó, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond in two minutes, because there's been a lot of talk. Mr. Bellman is not here right now, but he indicated that Minister Palkovic is good at everything. I would like to say that Minister Palkovics is certainly an expert in industry, and he is also an academic, so that the ITM has a voice and responsibility in the development of the domestic military industry and defence industry, that is perfectly reasonable. I would point out that there are various organisational and structural solutions. During the change of regime, the Office of the Military Industry was under the control of the Ministry of Industry and then the Ministry of Economy, so there is nothing foreign or novel about it, so it is good for the ITM to have such a task and to be able to perform it. Congresswoman Vada spoke about the developments that are taking place in the Hungarian Defence Office. These are not dissection-like improvements, but there is a ten-year development plan for the Hungarian Army. We made a serious and wise decision a few years ago, and it was also expected in NATO that by 2024 and this we would achieve 2 percent of the gross domestic product to be used for protection, and a significant part of it for improvements, precisely because the Hungarian Defence Agency was an ageing asset park, and it was time for developments. I also have personal concerns about border fences, because I was the Minister when the migration crisis in 2015 justified the participation of the military in this task, then Minister Benkő was the Chief of Staff and we conducted 18,000 soldiers and brought him down to the border. We've been down several times. I think it was a very important and good decision that the Hungarian Government made this decision. Even today, this border fence protects the security of the Hungarian people, and I am pleased that, along with the police, the soldiers will also stand up to our borders and protect the security of the Hungarian people in the migration crisis. Border protection, border police, border surveillance, these are different tasks. It's been a long time since the border patrol. I think now that we've considered the border defense system, and we've got our officers and our soldiers patrolling the fence, it's important to keep our security safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-09-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker was Ms Ágnes Vadai, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-11-09-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To my fellow Members, Simicskó, I would not like to list all the very planned purchases, such as two pieces of Airbus A319, two pieces of Dassault Falcon-7X. Oops! They're not for the defence, they're for the government. But we've seen purchases, obviously, of Leopard, we've seen the purchase of missile components, we've seen armor-piercing guns, infantry combat vehicles. A significant part of these, I would like to say, is not so much related to cyberspace, but rather to territorial protection. Now, the reason I'm talking like this is because we didn't see you anyway. So maybe I'll see your contracts tomorrow. In recent years, we have seen a report of this kind, but the committee, the National Defence and Police Committee, which is important for information, and otherwise for support, to have very precise information... This particular Zrinyi defence and military development programme, which I know no longer has a number, so there is no such thing as 2026, because it is not a long time ago, it has already outgrown Minister Simicskó's original plans, so it was basically such a colour-scented publication, and we saw a flow diagram of this before this slide, which was just showing what I was saying, I would just like to say, in a ministerial report, they are very good. I only think that in these cases, since this determines both the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the budget for a long time, and this makes a closing opportunity for us to get Gripen, it would have been worth presenting in advance perhaps in a normal concept, in a long-term vision, what we are doing, and not in the same way, what we are doing. As far as the ITM is concerned, we have had the opportunity to listen to Minister Palkovic's report on the Defence and Police Committee, but it was not entirely clear what he really wanted there. This is where the problem is mixed with ITM, Maróth Gáspár, HM and Hungarian Defence, and this is not good! So when we talk about military technology, we like clear relationships. We didn't like what Minister Palkovic said that there would be an area that he might want to privatise, because how good it would be for the state to put money into it now, and now it should be released to part of the national capital class. I would not very much like to see these tools, the developments related to them, concentrated in the hands of Lőrinc Mészáros. I do not think that would be good for you, for us or for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would now like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tibor Benkő, Minister for Defence, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Tibor Benkő's mark:]] [[On Dr. Tibor Benkő's mark:]] I see, yes, you do. From your seat or from up here, Minister, from the platform? (Authorized by Dr. Tibor Benkő:) The location. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Simon Miklós, first of all, thank you for your supporting thoughts and words and for all you have said here about the importance of the law. Congressman Luke, I would like to reassure you that healthcare workers have been a priority in our system so far. With the introduction of the status of defence worker, you can see in what form, I can already tell you that more than 75 percent of healthcare workers have already taken advantage of that possibility. And that also means a higher form of recognition for the ability. So they're not going to be put at a disadvantage in any way. Congressman Tamás Bellozó... Well, then allow me to put it this way: will the congresswoman not be offended if I say it together? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No.]] Good. I do not agree with Mr Bellozó, and I do not understand these personal remarks, because I do not see any point in seeing them. Although Prime Minister Simicskó has already said that Minister Palkovics does not need to be protected, he may need to know what he does, what he does, what he does and what he does. [[16.40]] It's not my place to judge, but allow me to say that you are working effectively and doing your job effectively. There's no need to bother me with that, but, uh, stand up and take it back. Well, we're not just talking about the military industry, the defence industry, the military industry, defence industrial procurement, the operation of these things, the maintenance of them. It's not the job of the wallet, it's never been, it's been divided. And I think it's in the right place right now, and it's working. How do you fix everything? That's what life's all about, there's always more appearances, things you can change, of course. The soldier's job is not to tell which type of device he wants to acquire, the soldier's job is to get a task, a challenge, there is a risk, a threat or a challenge, to determine how those challenges, what means, what methods, in what form he can achieve. And then I don't want to come up with the market research and negotiations, but the soldier gets the tools he needs. I do not want to quote the past, because, as Congresswoman says, I have served as a soldier for 43 years, and who knows, we have enjoyed, in some cases, the purchase as it was, that we bought the self-propelled guns, but did not buy the driving complexes. I don't want to get into professional matters. He who continues the procurement, he must seek and obtain the skills specified by the soldier. So we don't want it to be independent, we don't want it to look like the soldier isn't telling us what kind of tools we need or how much we need. If I don't study something or don't know it, then I can make these terms and statements that it's tied to a ten-year-old nugget, but the soldier who chooses the career as a professional soldier, who lives his life as a career officer, well, it would be pretty bad if he didn't serve for at least ten years! Who does this ten-year-old thing apply to? It's written in the proposal, in the bill. However, in addition to the National University of Public Service Faculty of Military Sciences and Military Officers, there are still those in general training, candidates for contract officers, and those in reserve officers' positions. Let's not mix things up. That's why I'm saying we should read the bill, or we should recognize it. Criticisms can be formulated. Mr. Bell says it's not an outcome, I was so proud to say that this year's salary will not be taken away by the government. And he'll give you more than that. Yeah, let's take a look. It has not been a year since 2015 that we have not raised the salary of soldiers in any form. So, continuously, from 2015 until 2022. So let's not say we don't provide security for the soldier and just say we won't take next year. Keep an eye on the published bulletins, or you might be able to navigate. Early retirement. I've told you this many times, but I don't know what's unclear about the fact that, as before, there is an early retirement. Even now, the age of early retirement is five years, only sometime from 55 years, because it was the age limit for retirement, and now it is 65 years. But the five-year early retirement pension has given the soldiers now, why should we say no? Congresswoman, I don't want to... I understand that you're saying that a higher proportion of GDP has been spent on defence issues than we have between 2011 and 15 years. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Total value.]] I get it. And what's the result? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's the minister himself.]] That I became a minister? Did you fund it? Thank you very much, I didn't know that, but it feels good to have you behind me. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We weren't behind you as ministers!]] We spent more, he says, but there's no result! We've closed the barracks. We've removed technical equipment. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2021-11-09-100	With all due respect, I would also like to ask Minister...
u2021-11-09-101	But I listened so patiently... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But you have to answer that, because... Zoltán Balczó: Mr. President, we need a break to discuss it.]]
u2021-11-09-102	...and Congresswoman, so that they don't argue with each other right now...
u2021-11-09-103	We'd talk about it, but what do I do now? [[Zoltán Balczó: Minister, military, disciplined!]]
u2021-11-09-104	... because this genre doesn't allow it, but Minister says the closing word, and the congresswoman listens with respect. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-105	Thank you very much. Then I'd say a thing or two, that we didn't spend it on soldiers, but on tools, and tell Minister Simicskó that the A319s aren't military... all right, put them where you think they are, but don't tell me that we didn't spend on soldiers until 18:00. The expansion of the workforce, the voluntary reserve system, was reported by the faction leader in numerical terms, that we increased from 17 to 11 400. The career model... you're saying what Mr. Bellozó says now. The career model was set up in 15 and the salary increases went according to the housing benefits, the health insurance systems are going according to, and should I list them? Well, let's not say that. The training suit you see the soldiers in is not a coincidence that we say M15, so it was introduced in 15 samples, that is, it was introduced in 15. So not only did the A319s appear in the Hungarian Army! And the personal stuff again. I believe there are some people who are not welcome, but Maróth Gáspár, Director of Armoury at the Ministry of Defence. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's a big problem.]] The other question is how do you judge him, but he's the Director of Armor at the Ministry of Defense, and he's also a government commissioner, and he's performing these tasks. It's not hanging in the air, as you say. And I don't have an opinion on this colourful-smelling defence and military development program. I've already told you that I don't care if the technical equipment we're getting has a color, maybe even smells of oil, I'm interested in having it in this system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-106	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws for harmonisation purposes in order to establish interoperability between EU information systems in the fields of borders, visa, police and judicial cooperation and asylum and migration is now now taking place. Government referral T/17429. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State, your time frame is 30 minutes. You have the floor. [[16.50]]
u2021-11-09-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before the Honourable Parliament mainly contains amendments to EU regulations for harmonisation of laws. In its Communication of 6 April 2016, the European Commission stressed the need to improve the framework for EU data management in the field of border and security control. In doing so, it initiated cooperation between EU border management, security and migration management information systems. To this end, two new Regulations have been established, which entered into force on 11 June 2019. The purpose of interoperability between EU systems is to ensure that border police and law enforcement bodies, foreign police authorities and the asylum authority have rapid, smooth and controlled access to the information necessary to carry out their tasks. The proposal provides a solution for the detection of multiple identities linked to the same biometric series, for the correct identification of bona fide persons, for combating identity abuse, facilitates the verification of the identity of third-country nationals in the territory of the Member States, and rationalises the access of law enforcement authorities to EU information systems for the prevention, detection or prosecution of serious crime and terrorism. According to the Union regulations, a national police body may be authorised to consult EU information systems with biometric data of the audited person. The amendment of the law on the police includes the establishment of these rules in the area of certification and the priority security measure. Dear Parliament, Armed security guards established within the police's organisation will be involved in foreign police and border police activities, in addition to the tasks of object and personnel surveillance and monitoring. The armed security guard can only do this together with the police officer fully trained for this task, i.e. only with the police officer, under his direct supervision and control, since his duties are complementary and supportive. The necessary legal framework for the implementation of EU legislation to combat the dissemination of online terrorist content needs to be introduced into a new law in order to ensure that EU legislation is fully enforceable in the domestic legal system. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also contains the necessary textual amendments to the provisions of the Law on the special legal order chapter, which will enter into force on 1 July 2023 and to the new system of coordination of defence and security activities laid down in the Law. It is the unbroken practice of the Ministry of the Interior to consult the parliamentary parties on legislative proposals containing fundamental provisions. The same has already happened with regard to this bill. Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, invited the political leaders of the parliamentary parties to conduct this discussion, which took place on Friday. Thank you for the participation of Fidesz-KDNP and LMP in this consultation. The MSZP commented in writing. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal therefore serves the security of Hungary and makes it technically simpler and more efficient for the authorities to use the data stored in EU information systems and to comply with our obligations arising from our membership of the Union in connection with this bill. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to these reasons, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-09-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The primary objective of the proposal before us is to harmonise EU legislation, as clearly apparent from the title of the proposal. However, there are cases where such legislative amendments are only of formal significance, since Member States' legislation is already ahead of EU legislation in the case of one problem. In the present case, however, the government will bring certain elements of domestic law into line with EU regulations, which will lead to important cooperation that will make it more effective for Member States to carry out their foreign police and law enforcement tasks. In the unusually close sense of the word, cooperation, i.e. interoperability, can be achieved, because, as Mr State Secretary said, the EU regulations open up communication opportunities between IT databases. In particular, this means that control at external borders, prevention of illegal immigration, maintenance of public order and implementation of the common visa policy can become more effective, as these areas of activity are most supported by new opportunities opened up in IT systems, such as more accurate identification of persons, more efficient screening of data Duplicates or better quality of data. On the basis of the mandate of the EU regulations, this proposal allows the police body to have access to the common identity repository for identification purposes and to carry out the verification of biometric data under certain conditions, as stated by the Secretary of State. In addition, it is possible to manually verify data referring to multiple identities. The verification shall establish the reasons for the presence of multiple identities relating to the same person. On the domestic side, the National Expert and Research Centre will participate in this task. In addition, the proposal under discussion contains other important amendments, which are also aimed at harmonising EU legislation with the aim of introducing rules to combat the dissemination of online terrorist content. In this case, certain rules of a directly applicable EU regulation must be reflected in the Hungarian legal order in order to ensure that they are fully enforceable at home. There is more clarification in the proposal before us, Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned the involvement of the armed security guard in border police tasks, or, for example, the presence of amendments to the Law on the Ninth Amendment to the Fundamental Law and on the Coordination of Defence and Security Tasks. I'm not going to go out there on this one. Ladies and gentlemen, As we can see, this is a very important legislative harmonisation task ahead of us, and I urge you to support the proposal, the Fidesz will. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, my fellow Members, Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would pick up where our fellow Member left off when he sat down and said that this is a very important task of harmonisation. Then let's see if there are two parts of it that have anything to do with harmonisation of legislation and our obligation to the European Union. One is a very important topic, and I would like to make it clear and clear that Jobbik has always been in favour of protecting the Hungarian border. It is therefore important that the protection of the Hungarian border is adequately ensured. However, what is the reason why, as mentioned here by the Secretary of State, the armed security guard established within the system of organisation of the police must be used in border protection, in order to help the work of the armed forces at the border, and why they do not accept, for example, the position or the solution which, in any other organizational system, we are slowly inclined to act as separate border guards within the system of the police. After all, Jobbik is the original idea, and I think it has been clear since 2014 that a separate border guard is needed, which provides adequate border protection. [[17.00]] You are now trying to put forward the concept here once again that next to the police and police bodies, who are otherwise known to have a staff problem, who, together with the defence and defence, ensure border protection, another actor should be involved and the police should be assisted. I would like to ask you why, in order to protect the Hungarian borders, which I reiterate, just so that there is no chance of twisting it, it has a very important role to play, and we consider it very important to stop illegal migration, why not be trained as a border guard within the framework of a border guard, familiar with border guard tasks... otherwise, professional capacity may still exist, whether in the army or in the police. Why don't we do it like this? Why is it that the government is trying to unravel the holes that are mostly because there are problems in the police force, even though they told their own accounts maybe a month and a half ago that there are no such problems. Compared to this, you see something completely different in social media, and if someone is not convinced by social media, then you have personal contacts who work in the police force, family members who work at the police station, and they don't report that it's an easy situation, which means the stock is uploaded, and they do very hard, very serious work, very often working at the police station instead of each other. So I'd like to ask you why we're not in a decent, normal, independent system of organisations, and I'm telling you, we're slowly being lenient, even within the police force, but they're signing off on this with the border guard. The other, which I also believe is not our obligation to harmonise legislation, is point 9 of this bill, where there is indeed a provision on how to do so in the case of a special legal order, and perhaps I am trying to roll media services to one of the most interesting aspects here, to the extent necessary to do so, to the extent necessary to limit and prohibit them in the right situation. This means that in the special legal order, you can interrupt broadcasting with media service providers, place your own information there, which, by the way, is pretty much okay if the special legal order hadn't been transformed now, and there wouldn't otherwise be any questionable rubber rules. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In the last few hours, perhaps three or four hours, we have been talking about other legislative changes due to changes in special legal order, and there have been criticisms that the definition of special legal regimes has not gone in the right direction, and that the government and the government at all are thinking not only about Viktor Orbán, but also about the additional rights of a future government of any kind. Now they want something to be published here and banned. If there is an emergency, or if there is a situation requiring special security measures, in which there is a need to intervene and to provide important information to people, of course, a government has the opportunity to do so. But I'm sorry, in recent times, when you had to communicate in a special situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the first and most important communication channel, the Hungarian public media, your official website on the Internet, has often been used not to provide the right information to people, but to the contrary. And I'll tell someone who operated kormany.gov.hu, Nacsa Lőrinc, that I'm going up to the Kormany.gov.hu... [[Nacsa Lawrence says no.]] I'm sorry, he was working there or something, so he was doing his editing, so I read something like that. Whatever, then. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: It was István Hollik.]] Then Hollik was a fellow Member. I'm sorry. Your style is so uniform that I mix it in a very similar way. I'm sorry about that. I'm here to correct you. You weren't part of this. But if you go to koronavirus.gov.hu now, a good part of the articles and a good part of the headline news have nothing to do with what people should do in the corona virus epidemic. I'm telling you, for example, here's the headline news right now that the government is giving a pension premium, and here's the minimum wage news on koronavirus.gov.hu. You don't believe I'm going to tell you that when you interrupt a broadcast somewhere or publish something, or you're going to forbid a statement, you're not going to do that with the aim of talking about something completely different? Because that's what these rules are about, which have been put in this bill, and they have nothing to do with what's going on with the harmonisation of EU law. If the Union saw this, it would not only ask for harmonisation, but would ask that we take these out and forget that we put them in the Hungarian legal order. Dear Secretary of State, In addition, we are talking about the coronavirus.gov.hu, which, by the way, its Facebook page likes only one page, the side of Donald Trump. So, they want to inject this bill and stuff, and they're asking for support for it. I do not think that there is a normal situation in which, because of these two points, or just because of this one point, it is possible to support the rules which, otherwise, have been incorporated in a lot of things because of EU compliance. But when you put them in there, you can't support them with a good heart. Yes, it is necessary to protect the Hungarian border, we believe that it must be protected, we believe that this would require border guards. But there is no need to confuse it when you want to get involved in the freedom of expression and the very important role of telecommunications so that you can otherwise use a rather fluid rule to prohibit, block or make the publication of something mandatory. So when there is a similar situation, you have not used communication in many cases, in the beginning you have sought to provide information, then you have taken it and turned it into propaganda that it was bad to watch. Do you know what that's done? It means that the country was completely divided in defense and cart camps were formed, and then everyone tried to deal with this epidemic according to their own beliefs. What you should have done from the very first moment was to get through this difficult situation, along with a fair information, with journalists and TVs as partners. I do not see a very great opportunity for this bill to be supported by Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-11-09-112	Thank you very much, Congressman László Lukács. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-09-113	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill has four main objectives. The first main objective is to modify the interoperability of EU information systems for the purposes of harmonisation of laws in the fields of borders, visa, police and administrative cooperation and asylum and migration. According to interoperability systems, a national police body may be authorised, subject to certain conditions, to consult EU information systems with biometric data of the audited person, and therefore to conduct an annual XXXIV on the police. The amendment of the Act contains the establishment of these rules in the area of certification and the priority security measure. In some cases, Member State authorities should also manually check the data and data links stored in information systems, with a smaller amendment to additional laws being included in the bill. The purpose of interoperability between Union systems is to ensure that end-users, in particular border police and law enforcement bodies, the foreign police authority and the asylum authority and judicial authorities have rapid, smooth, regular and controlled access to the information necessary to carry out their tasks. Interoperability aims at improving controls at external borders, preventing illegal immigration, contributing to maintaining public order and maintaining security, and improving the implementation of the common visa policy. These objectives can be improved, inter alia, by ensuring the correct identification of persons, preventing misuse of identity, improving the quality of data and harmonising data quality requirements. The main objectives of the bill are to regulate the involvement of armed security guards in certain border police tasks established in the police organisation, to establish the necessary legal institutional framework for the implementation of EU law on the dissemination of the online terrorist content, as a consequence of the provisions of the 9th amendment to the Fundamental Law, which entered into force on 1 July 2023, concerning the special legal order chapter, and XCIII of 2021 on the coordination of defence and security activities. transfer of the necessary textual changes in accordance with the new system laid down by law. [[17.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, until today, our border law enforcement agencies have already blocked some 100,000 illegal border crossings! This is four times the migration pressure on our borders compared to a year ago. Migration stimulates and increases the level of the epidemic, because illegal migrants are obviously bringing in the various infections you know. Hungary is ready to open a Corridor to march migrants all the way to Austria, Germany or Sweden, but we reject Brussels forcing its own will to Hungary. What is good for Hungary and the Hungarians, who can enter the country, who we want to live with, can only be decided by the Hungarian people. We are working to ensure that Hungary will continue to have a government for the next four years after the elections next year, which will not allow Brussels to do so, and will always enforce Hungarian national interests against Brussels bureaucrats. This can only be the Fidesz-KDNP government. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó and Dr. László György Lukács: Only!]] The situation today is unprecedented, because Europe has been under migratory pressure from three directions, both south, southeast and east. It has been proven that the only effective way to stop illegal migration flows is to build a fence, without which there is no police or military force to protect hundreds of kilometres of borders effectively. It is therefore difficult to understand that the European Commission is already financing everything that serves to increase migration, but still not the truly effective instruments to curb it. Brusselsers are as if they are not living on this planet, and they continue to block the support of countries building fences. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to express my appreciation on behalf of the Christian Democrats for the work of the bodies managed by the Ministry of the Interior. Over the last ten years, there has been greater public security, more dedicated policemen, and more effective work, despite the fact that they have to do their job under extreme pressure, both because of illegal migration and the coronal virus epidemic. Ladies and Gentlemen, We must say that we must strengthen the protection of borders. This is what the present bill serves, extending the possibility of various armed security guards in border protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-11-09-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The title of this bill is to amend certain laws for harmonisation purposes in order to establish interoperability between EU information systems in the fields of borders, visa, police and judicial cooperation and asylum and migration. I think we can settle this very simply: as you have said in this bill, there are four different issues. Now, two of these are about the title of the law. These two could also be voted by the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group, because it is, on the one hand, about the interoperability and interconnection of the information systems on which the feet of Hungary, i.e. the various law enforcement agencies, from TEK to the police, everyone else and prosecutors, are based, so that in other Member States and Hungary, this information is available quickly and almost online, and can help everyone in the EU to prevent illegal border crossings or any other cross-border movements of criminal circles as effectively as possible. In addition, there is also an EU legislative harmonisation part in the bill, which is about facilitating the application of the EU regulation to combat online terrorist content in Hungary, it is absolutely fine and can be supported. And then the line was finished, because there are two other topics in this bill whose title, the title of the law, has nothing to do with it. I'll keep it quiet, I know it's a joke, but it doesn't fit the law either, but it's got bigger and more content issues, which, by the way, at the request of the Ministry of the Interior, I really confirm to the Secretary of State that we couldn't go to the Seven Party. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We couldn't!]] We also indicated in writing to the wallet. One of them is the amendment of the media law, right, in the amendment of the EU information systems for legal harmonisation, the type of amendment of the media law that my fellow Member, my fellow Member, Jobbik, has already spoken about, but I also mentioned it before in the Defence Act, the laws on defence, because, of course, this part also appears there, which says that not only in a special legal order, but also in the case of the so-called coordinated defence activity, the Hungarian Government can oblige media service providers to publish the communication it has set out, but it will continue after the comma, or it can prohibit the publication of certain communications and programmes. Let us add, let us say, that during a specific war event, there is probably a time and place for this, but in this proposal you would not only say it once again in a special legal order, but also during a coordinated defence activity, allow this otherwise incredibly serious instrument to be put into the hands of the government during or in the case of a defence and security event. I have also listed it in the previous bill, but then I will tell you to understand what you're talking about, such a security and protection event is an emergency, a crisis or an emergency that doesn't qualify as a special legal order, a serious event affecting the supply, security or continuity of the population, and now, for example, the AdBlue deficiency, or I don't know, and, you know, the other question is who's going to decide what it is and what it isn't. Please tell me when a sectoral malfunction, as defined by law, creates the possibility that the government not only directly or indirectly supervised by the government, but also completely independent of the government, in the broadcasting of media service providers, internet portals, televisions and radios, should talk with a stroke of a pen to order them to deliver certain communications or to prohibit the transmission of certain programmes! In the event of a disaster or a risk thereof, a serious event affecting the order of the state border and its preservation. Fellow Members! If someone, say, for a few hours, as we have seen, and gave live at some time in the summer of 15 Hungarian Television, perhaps a mass attack on a border crossing or a fence, would that give the government the opportunity to ban and block programmes on any television or radio? Who's gonna decide that? [[17.20]] We know the answer: the Hungarian government alone, the Parliament will have nothing to do with it, and if I remember correctly, will extend it every three months for as long as it pleases him, even for eternity. Of course, there is no time limit in this case. What we can tell you is that as long as this paragraph is in this bill, we cannot support it in any way. The other issue is the ability of armed security guards to guard the state border. Put your hands in your hearts, Congressman. What did my fellow Member Vejkey say? By extending the applicability of armed security guards to protect the border? No, Congressman. We hire 3,000 border hunters, we solve everything, you remember this announcement in no time? The soldiers are at the border, the police are at the border, we're conducting them from all over the country. Do you know what we're discussing here? The four things listed above are a complete failure. You now give Parliament the authority to replace police officers, not just border police, but police officers, with simple armed security guards at the border, because there are not enough policemen. It's a confession to the lack of police personnel to carry out this job. And, as we have said, it is obviously not a sustainable state of affairs, so that traffic police, patrols, detectives and clerks from the rest of the country can be continuously directed to the border to hold the pound somehow. There would have been a three thousand border patrols that could do this job permanently, but apparently not, because if they did, they wouldn't send armed security guards to the border as patrolmen to serve with the police. And obviously, a next step from here is that, uh, that worked out so well at the border, so let's do this on the street. How nice it would be if we had armed security guards patrolling the street, after all, he had a gun on his side, and he had a uniform on, so let's hear it. That's the face spitting of the whole profession, I can't tell you anything else. Our cops study years, and after years of service training, they can be patrolmen, and they can go out on the street and get physical contact with people, and take action against them. And they are obviously well trained in psychic and other ways of trusting them, for example, with regard to the use of weapons. There's a reason we're not patrolling armed security guards on the street. There's obviously a reason for that. And the reason that this is being used now is that they cannot hold the fort with regard to personnel, which is a subject that we have been talking about for years, Mr Vejkey, what fluctuations and wave of disarmament there are in the police force, that they cannot keep the stock. It's one thing how young the stock was, but we can't even hold on to what's causing malfunctions now. In this respect, the solution is not to set the FBŐs next to the police, but to finally raise the police salary after 2008. In 2015, a new career model for law enforcement was created, with a one-off 50 percent wage increase on average compared to that year, Mr. Secretary of State. You know and you know that you know that it has long since been removed, but there is no evidence that using their existing careers to raise the salary base is a fair increase in the pay of the entire system. They've been absolving me, giving me extra benefits, getting 10 percent this year, that's a fact and a fact that didn't go into their pay. Next year, they'll put it in their paychecks, so be happy if they don't take it away from them. But it's not a career model. Of course, the arms money will certainly be appreciated by colleagues, but I always say that I think it would be much better for them to get a decent salary every month in terms of the stability of the stock than not for three years, and then, after three years, they will receive six months' money at once; especially if they take the money in the morning and retire. Because you won't be able to stop it, and I think it's a huge problem. Finally, because Mr. Vejkey has also left to the end the government propaganda, which is almost the limit of tastelessness, in this bill: I beg you to finish this very quickly. This Corridor alert, a cry, which I know the big boss has announced on the radio, finish it very quickly. You know perfectly well that this is an invitation to waltz. You know it, or if you don't know it, you could read in the paper how the Prime Minister is doing it on purpose, and then I can only say very nasty things about him, or that irresponsible, and you too. But in the affected areas, this has already been interpreted by the Hungarian Prime Minister's invitation to come to Hungary, because there will be a Corridor and there will be a Corridor to go to Western Europe. If you say that again, don't mention again in your life that the Hungarian border must be protected, and that the safety of Hungarian citizens is above all! Because this is either accidental or direct, but it can easily result that in weeks, months, or at the latest in spring, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people will start at the same time, because the public opinion will be that Hungary will open a Corridor in Western Europe, and that it will be possible to come here and go calmly to Austria. Do something responsible. I understand that you have to win the evening news at M1, I don't know what, and on Pesti TV you have to say something cool, but those words have a much bigger weight. I think the Prime Minister was incredibly, incredibly irresponsible when he said that. I'm telling you again, I just hope you didn't do this on purpose, you pushed it a little too far. Secretary of State, if these two parts are removed from the law, which is a proposal for harmonisation of laws corresponding to the title of the law, we will vote in favour. As long as any of them stay in it, they can't count on our support. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-09-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I now give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group.
u2021-11-09-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I think that Mr Harangozó has just made a very important statement, and he has drawn attention to an extremely important and serious event, which we cannot really leave unanswered. I believe that this situation needs to be resolved. On Friday, we all heard on Kossuth Radio what an irresponsible statement the Prime Minister made when he practically half-funnyly said that they were ready to release the migrant flood, the refugees in Hungary. As my colleague Lukács mentioned, this was assessed by the Syrian television with full national coverage that Hungary provided a Corridor. I think that it is important to clarify this, and I would like to ask both Mr Secretary of State and the present MPs to clarify what has happened here. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: What about the congresswoman?]] I'm sorry, I didn't mean to directly call on the congresswoman to do this. I call on you to make it clear that you agree with this, what is behind this at all, or that you will distance yourself from the Prime Minister. I would specifically ask the Secretary of State to distance himself from the Prime Minister's irresponsible statement. We agree with my fellow opposition Members that such statements cannot be made, and we must make clear what we agree on, that the external borders of the Union must be protected, illegal migration must be stopped, and immigration policy must be kept in national competence. I think it is worth talking in a few sentences about the circumstances under which we are continuing this debate here. If we look at yesterday's parliamentary session or look at what is happening, if we go up to any social media or video-sharing portal, what advertisements are coming up, we can see, in particular, an amazingly funded and paid smear campaign from government actors, spreading lies about opposition actors. Your target is typically Péter Márki-Zay, the opposition's Prime Minister's candidate, and he and the entire opposition are on the false charge that if the government led by Viktor Orbán fails, there will be a fence break-up here, and that the opposition wants to allow illegal migrants into Hungary. That's a bloody lie. I think we need to make it clear that the people who acted against your rhetoric, your propaganda, were you. We know very well that only with Rogán settlement bonds, you have allowed 20,000 people in without proper control, taking a huge risk. And we can also see that, in an extremely irresponsible way, common European action and action against the main causes of migration is being hindered, while talking about the need to stop migration. [[17 .30]] So we really need to say that the Hungarian government is the one who is the biggest obstacle to the effective fight against the migration crisis, but again, even in this series, this was an extremely prominent statement from the Prime Minister. I look forward to my fellow pro-government Members being corrected and made clear that Prime Minister has made a real statement, this represents the government's position, or we have heard a very, very bad joke from him. I can confirm what my fellow Members have said, that there are indeed very, very important tasks here in the law, steps that are also responsible for the different border protections, and for the more effective work of the bodies involved in counter-terrorism and in the performance of security tasks at all. We do not question the importance of these measures, we support them, and I think that it is also clear whether, if we look at our region, the Central European region, or if we look at the European area as a whole, that we are actually facing challenges that need such measures. It is therefore necessary to ensure that these different databases are used more efficiently, to ensure access in all respects and to be used effectively even to counter terrorism. So with these, I think we're totally in agreement. But to face this problem in itself, and to be able to act more effectively together, I think that this kind of propaganda, which I have already talked about here for a few sentences, is hindering this. I would also like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, and my fellow Members, what you expect when we face a crisis. We know very well that the migration crisis will not go away in a year or two. We know that this will be a very serious challenge for the next period, and this is indeed a question of fate for the whole of Europe, including Hungary. Why do you think that this can continue to be a campaign issue, and that all you have to do about it is to make the opposition subject to a series of lying accusations? Why can't we forget these very amazing and lying statements that we heard yesterday, and why can't they be constructively related to the opposition, so that we can vote on such proposals with cooperation and possibly with a complete consensus? And indeed, the elements, the questionable elements that have been referred to here, my fellow Members, should not be included in such a proposal, because it is indeed a legitimate expectation, and it is an important task to be able to provide the most important information to the general public in the event of a real emergency, in the context of a regulated framework. However, my fellow Members have also shown in detail that this is not sufficiently precisely defined in the proposal, and, unfortunately, we must say that in this emergency situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, you have, in fact, broadcast propaganda rather than information, and that you have not used the various extraordinary powers, but have abused them. So I think that the mistrust that is expressed not only by opposition representatives but also by a significant part of Hungarian society in relation to your actions may be justified. Overall, I can say that there are important issues in the bill. As Mr Bellozó said, it is very, very important and we can also see eligible measures. The question is that the national Ministry of the Interior has opened up the parts that have been criticised here either to make significant changes or to remove them from the bill. If the Ministry is open to this, then, I think it is possible to take a step that, if necessary, can pass through Parliament by consensus, and then perhaps in this way we can express that we all really agree that this global challenge is real, and that we must act against it by all means in the interests of the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-09-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-09-119	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I'd like to make two brief reactions. On the one hand, while Western Europe is characterised by empty cradles, and therefore, because of the empty cradles, it seeks to replace the new generation replacing children with illegal migration, whereas Hungary has a very strong family policy, we support children, and the two completely different narratives are the result of our confrontation with Brussels. We are in a collision because the narrative in Brussels is that illegal migrants should be allowed in and then distributed. That's why we say no. We've been saying this for years, and it's been almost a decade now that we have to protect the borders. That is why we built the fence, and that is why we also have border police bodies that protect Hungarians and protect Europe from the possibility of illegal migrants entering this area. However, when Brussels wants to continue to force its opinion on us and continue to force us to let them in, i.e. illegal migrants, we can do nothing but have to provide a Corridor. That's what we were talking about, and that's what Prime Minister was talking about, and that's what I was talking about. Tamás Harangozó's suggestion that the media law will be amended is to be amended very briefly because the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law requires that terminology and professional changes be introduced in the media law which make this necessary; and that, as of 1 July 2023, the Defence Council will cease to exist and that the President of the Republic's state of emergency will be changed. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-120	Thank you very much. The further speeches will now follow, but he pressed the button, Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. I'll give you the floor for two minutes.
u2021-11-09-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I think there's a statement here that can't be left unanswered. What Congressman Vejkey has just repeated is that they're trying to create some kind of Corridor, and they're practically giving up the protection of the border, it's quite amazing. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among other things: Not true!]] This was surreal and extremely dangerous and irresponsible political statement. I can say that, and I am part of the committee that is putting together the opposition's programme, that if the change of government takes place in Hungary, the government from the parties of the current opposition will not make such statements, and we will ensure the protection of the Hungarian borders. We will ensure that illegal migration is stopped; and we will also ensure that no such dangerous and irresponsible statements will be made by members of the then government or by representatives of the then government. And I have one more thing to respond to, Congressman Vejkey. Since 2010, it has been an amazing exodus that this nation has suffered because of the failed policy of the Orbán government, suffered by the country, and hundreds of thousands of forced leave. And unfortunately, one in six Hungarian children in motherland is now born abroad; thousands of families have been torn apart. This is a huge loss, and this is the most serious challenge our nation is facing right now. I find it quite amazing that when we are discussing this, there are members of the government who say that there is no problem here, that there is a common European labour market. I think that if a government acts in the interests of the nation, it is necessary to do everything to enable everyone to thrive in their homeland, and the conditions for doing so must be established. Indeed, the performance of a government, or historical perspectives, can be judged by its ability to ensure the conditions for remaining in the homeland. And I can tell you that the Orbán government that lied to itself as a national has failed, and that is why we need a change of government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-11-09-122	Thank you very much. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2021-11-09-123	Thank you, if you have any questions. I am sorry that Congressman Harangozó has left the room, because I quickly looked through the Facebook pages of Mr Keresztes Group leader and Tamás Harangozó, and I have not seen any separation in the case when one of your allies, Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson, said that without the migrants, we could not have been past the Covid epidemic, that we needed more migrants to be imported, that our economies and societies needed migrants. Tamás Bellozó is also a party partner with the Commissioner, and you are in league with her. In fact, I have sought his separations, for example by his party family, the excellent speeches by the Green Party family in the European Parliament, when they keep talking about the need not to stop importing migrants into Europe, but the need to bring in more and more migrants, because an ageing European society needs migrants. That is your position, honourable Member. So if you want to knock somewhere, you will address this sentence in the wrong place, because it was Viktor Orbán who stopped migration in 2016, who built a fence, and we have been defending Hungary not only with the legal border closure, the fence and the lively border protection, but also Austria, Germany, Sweden and France, continuously, honourable Member. [[17.40]] So if you want to argue about this, you will address your questions in the wrong place, because the fact is, honourable Member, that when your allies in Brussels suddenly speak and say such freaky sentences, which say that without the migrants, we would not have been able to get past the Covid crisis, and that we need as many migrants as possible, and that we need to open these roads, you will quietly lay low, honourable Member. Then they don't do loud speeches, they don't post on social media that they're outrageous at what they're saying. We are the only ones who label the sentences of the Commissioner for Home Affairs as outrageous, who stand up against him, and you, when you are here, for example, trying to change the sentences of Péter Márki-Zay, which you said earlier, because, of course, you said that we should not talk about them, as was said here in Parliament yesterday, so let us not recall the common sentences of your joint candidate for Prime Minister, your joint political group, obviously trying to deny the past. Péter Márki-Zay said that György Soros had not brought a piece of migrants to Europe, Péter Márki-Zay said that he did not know anyone who would have been harmed by the migrants, while now news of a knife attack is coming every day. Look at what's on the Polish-Belorus border right where shots were fired today. So the series of terrorist attacks that have been going on in Europe for five years now is quite amazing, and you're here addressing your accusations to us. So I'm asking you, Congressman, to try this somewhere else. His own party colleagues in the Group of Greens, there in the European Parliament, are making hairy, hairy speeches on the subject, and the Socialist Commissioner urges everyone to bring in as many migrants as possible. And then Gergely Christmas says that, of course, we will not talk about it in the campaign, but, of course, we will act according to mainstream, as we are expected. Congressman, I would ask you that, with the vehemency here, you attack us without reason because you have no reason to, because we are the ones who defend the border, we are the ones who protect Europe, you channel these energies into trying to get your fellow party comrades and comrades there in Brussels a little bit more insight into migration in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-124	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes for further speeches.
u2021-11-09-125	Mr President, It is shocking to me that Lőrinc Nacsa, in contrast to all his earlier statements on the subject of migration, has joined his fellow Members here in Parliament, has joined Prime Minister and supports the creation of this particular Corridor. It is quite amazing that it has not separated itself from the very irresponsible statement made by the Prime Minister. You mentioned certain political actors here; they are not our political allies. Personally, I have always made our position clear when I had a job in Brussels on this. For three years, between 2015 and 2018 I represented national interests in the Committee of the Regions of the European Union, and I have personally argued with the Commissioner responsible for migration of the European Union, and I have said that illegal migration must be stopped, the external borders of the Union must be protected, and that should be enabled by the relevant organisations and authorities responsible for this task. But, honourable Member, if I remember correctly, your new friends, the various Italian political actors, on the other hand, demand very strongly the compulsory allocation quota. So you're gonna change your previous ideas in that, too? So do you want to create a Corridor and build on your new friends, build on your new alliance policy, support the mandatory distribution quota? I can say that we do not support it ourselves, and in September of last year, if I remember correctly, in the context of the new migration package of the Union, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made a sign of subsidiarity and presented to Parliament a resolution in which the Committee on Foreign Affairs indicated that it assumed that national competences would be violated in relation to the new migration pact, precisely because of the mandatory allocation quota contained therein. At the time, both the LMP and the Jobbik fractions agreed with this, and we have made it clear here not only during the debate but also with our vote that we do not support the compulsory allocation quota, and we intend to keep immigration policy in national competence. It was also from my fellow Members, my fellow Member Luke, that this statement, this statement concerning the Corridor, was made earlier by political actors. We do know that President Erdoğan, who cannot be considered a friend of Christian Europe, is constantly resorting to the threat of releasing hundreds of thousands of migrants and, by the way, using the Turkish minority in the territory of the European Union as a weapon to make integration impossible. He says a lot about the Prime Minister, who says he is a Christian Democrat, that he is friends with such dictators, who are not friends of Christian Europe. I think that the double speech must be stopped, honourable Members, and that it must be spoken clearly. This has already been done here in connection with statements about the Corridor, and we are appalled to accept that this government is acting in such an irresponsible manner, but I ask you to stop the false propaganda, the flood of lies, this is certainly not the case for these extremely important tasks or for complying with them. I can continue to say that there is also a need for a change of government, and we also need a clear resolution on this issue. The opposition's joint agenda states that, of course, border fences must be maintained, illegal migration must be stopped, and immigration policy must continue to be a matter of national competence. So I think these are the facts, and what we've heard from you is lying political propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2021-11-09-126	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. The next speaker is Zoltán Balczó, Member Jobbik.
u2021-11-09-127	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Congressman Nacsa let go of such a faint smile when my fellow Member spoke of the opposition's joint agenda, which he took on there. To be honest, it is a paragraph of this bill that has somehow been able to explain this migration debate, and I am sorry for the minister, but I am obliged to answer it, because Congressman Nacsa has already said categorically the opposite of what Jobbik has done in these matters. So I'm just telling you the truth. When it came to the defense law about the way the military carried out their duties on the border, it was very right, Fidesz did not have two-thirds, Jobbik provided two-thirds. When the institution of the legal border closure had to be established, Fidesz did not have two thirds, Jobbik provided it. Once, Congressman Nacha told me what to brag about, it's a duty. That's right, it was an obligation, but you said the opposite, you said that we, Jobbik, would let the migrants in. And speaking of what's going on in Brussels: I was an independent Member, so I don't have any party partners; at the moment, the Jobbik Member, Márton Gyöngyösi, is an independent Member; when we say that someone has partners, because the independent people don't share a great deal of community for each other, it is Fidesz. You really like to look at the documents, get them out, and I recommend a report for you: December 2, 2015, the situation in Hungary; then it was about the basis on which the fence was built by this country. I'll tell you what: not only did no representative of the Fidesz-KDNP speak but did not appear at this evening's meeting in Brussels. The only Member who stood up at the time and stood up for the Hungarian government's migration policy is again not a glory, but it was me. So when you put it like this, you like to say that everyone here supports migration, it doesn't correspond to reality. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-128	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. If you wish to respond to what has been said in this debate, Mr Károly Kontra, I will give you the floor. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-09-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what has been said in this debate. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Mónika Bartos for her support for this proposal, representing the Fidesz fraction, and Imre Vejkey, representing the KDNP Group, has also expressed his support. Thank you and ask for your support in the vote as well. As regards the comments of my fellow opposition Members, László Lukács, representative of Jobbik, called for the creation of an independent border guard. [[17.50]] I would also like to say here, we have repeatedly said that border guards and border guards are still in place today, and we have a border guard at European level, which operates within the organisational framework of the police. It was integrated with the MSZP-SZDSZ government on 1 January 2008. I'm sorry that Congressman Harangozó is not here, who was then Chief Ministerial Advisor [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: I am not competent.]] And then the mistake was, if I remember the number correctly, that 4.5 thousand trained border guards left him, the best-age 40s, 45-year-old border guards. On the Slovenian border, on the Austrian border, border surveillance at the Slovak border has ceased and, please, these excellently trained border guards have been released into the wind. He even raised the number of problems, called it in, and was almost happy... You know what's sad about that? He was almost happy that the police couldn't do his job, so few of them. That's not true. I would like to take my hat off to the police personnel, and I would also like to thank you for your double service, since you protect the southern border and provide Homeland Security in a first-class manner. And another thing that is very important is that between 2002-10, more than 24.5 thousand BM people, with professional staff, retired early. It's very difficult for this organization to recover, believe me, Congressman. And if the salaries and salaries were raised like they weren't raised, we'd be in a much easier position today. But back to Mr László Lukács's question, there is a border police directorate, including border-hunting battalion departments, field division, depth control department. So this border guard or border guard operates within the police's organization. This organisation is doing its job well, and we thank the staff. As regards legislation on media service providers under the special legal order, Member, if you have a proposal for an amendment, please do so, we will examine the proposals. Mr Tamás Harangozó objected to the rules on media content providers for the duration of the coordinated defence activity. They also made an amendment to the amendment. First of all, I would like to point out that what he has said is unfounded; the fears he has outlined here and painted black are, in our view, unfounded. As regards the duties of armed security guards and the rules on armed security guards, my fellow Members, my opposition colleagues, Lóránt László Keresztes, György Lukács, Zoltán Balczó or Tamás Harangozó, this proposal is because we have tabled this proposal, and armed security guards are involved in carrying out tasks related to border guards in the framework of police cooperation and police involvement, and I stress this, and I have made this clear. We're putting this in so that we can continue to carry out border surveillance so that we can protect the southern borders. And what you are trying to twist about the Prime Minister's statement, I refuse to do so, is absolutely unfounded, since our government has been a priority since the summer of 2015, since the migration crisis broke out. We've created the fence, created a lively defense and created legal protection. This 3rd defense still works, police officers, soldiers are involved. But it must also be said, and it was also mentioned here at the Parliament's meeting yesterday that this year more than 103 thousand illegal migrants have tried to enter Hungary, and I see the daily numbers, 300-400-500 are the daily tryouts who want to come to Hungary and the European Union. So, ladies and gentlemen, we want to be prepared to be able to, and will be, to guard the border whenever possible. And as for the Prime Minister's words, I quote: "Our discussion with Brussels is not because they do not see the numbers that we see, but because they think it is good. So they think migration is a good thing. The leader of the Brussels bureaucrats said that the good thing is that as many migrants as possible come, migration is good, migration is necessary for our societies. So they think that what we are fighting at our southern borders..., so let me say again: what we are fighting I wish you good morning, fellow Members! What we are fighting at our southern borders is not a bad thing, but a good thing, and they see us as faulty because they think that we are preventing a good thing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So don't try to twist the Prime Minister's words. We want to continue to protect it, and this proposal is also about this proposal, which is also about providing more instruments. And as members of the National Assembly of Hungary, it is our duty to do everything in our power to protect the borders, to protect the security of the Hungarian people, not to allow migrants in. And that is why I ask this House and my fellow opposition Members with great respect, consider and support this proposal, because it is in the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, we have allowed 20,000 people in without checking, which is what he referred to. That's not true. We told you when it was on the agenda that these people went through a four-time filter, four times! So we didn't let anyone pass without checking, I'm just telling you for the record. I think... [[Dr. László György Lukács: We'll know in a few years!]] Congressman, Congressman Luke, you're a disciplined man, by the way, that's how I met you. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This is an outrageous thing...]] I listened to you, too. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I have listened to you, my fellow Member, and if you do me the honor of listening, I thank you. So what I can tell you is that this is a very important bill, which largely fulfils our obligations to harmonise EU legislation; on the other hand, it expands the system of border protection by presenting to this House rules laying down guarantee rules for armed security guards in order to protect borders. So once again, Mr Crossman, we do not want to let migrants in, we want to protect and we will protect the borders. We use all legal means to do this. I ask you, if the protection of Hungary, the security of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people is really important to you, then you will support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-09-130	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, We will have the opportunity to present the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, we now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws on energy and transport, as well as related laws, until closure. The government referral is T/17439. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-09-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you proposes to amend several laws. The amendments to energy laws reflect essentially the experience of law enforcement over the past period as well as changing energy market expectations. Changes in the energy mix over the past period, the challenges of climate change and the development of information technology have also accelerated regulatory changes and their expansion. Dear House, The amendment of the Mining Act is of the utmost importance since it creates the legal basis for the installation of the hydrogen system and adds to the comprehensive rules for the authorisation of the hydrogen system. The amendment is essential for the legitimate and safe implementation of the Akvamarin pilot project, under which the Hungarian Natural Gas Storage Ltd. plans to establish an electrolysing system with a total power of approximately 2,5 megawatts and a corresponding hydrogen gas pre-treatment technology in the underground storage area of the Cardoskút. [[18.00]] The amendment of the Electricity Act extends and clarifies the rules of network licensees on the installation and operation of the electricity storage system in line with EU requirements, giving space to the balancing role of the electricity storage system. In the case of network infrastructure investments of greater territorial scope, even in the area of more than one municipality, the existing legislative environment cannot in practice support the timely and cost-effective implementation of investments. The safe and undisturbed supply of electricity to users is a priority public interest. Thus, the real realisation of electricity investments for security of supply is a priority objective of general interest. The legislative amendment aims to centralise the administrative procedure and to reform exceptional remedies in relation to telewire investments. This ensures that the procedure becomes more efficient and predictable while taking the amendment into account and raising to a normative level the constitutional requirement in the consistent practice of the Constitutional Court that environmental and nature protection authorities should not impose environmental or nature protection aspects on other aspects in their decision-making. Another proposal to amend the Electricity Act, which proposes the creation of a so-called regulatory test environment, should be highlighted. The creation of the new legal institution is based on international examples, as many EU Member States, including Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, have developed a regulatory test environment to promote innovations in response to the challenges of the past period. The purpose of the new legal institution is to provide for derogations from certain pre-defined provisions for specific projects. With the application of the regulatory test environment under the supervision of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, the market and the regulator will ideally be enriched with valuable experiences. The market can also try the idea in real conditions, and the regulator can control the project and find useful solutions in the design of the regulation. The draft law also contains proposals for amending the Gas Supply Act. It corrects, complements and clarifies the existing provisions, while ensuring consistency with the Electricity Act, and introduces the necessary amendments for the signing of the long-term natural gas contract. In the interests of users, it simplifies and harmonises the rules on electronic communications and makes it clear that the rules on natural gas dealers should be applied to the customer service of the LPG service provider. The draft law also proposes a slight amendment to the environmental law. This aims to establish rules for a single integrated construction and environmental permit and to incorporate it into the existing environmental legislation. This will help public network investments to be assessed by a body with a designated national competence in a single, transparent authorisation procedure integrating building and environmental aspects. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the laws on food chain and public oversight, forest, forest protection and forestry, promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport is intended to transpose the European Union Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. The proposal introduces new concepts and aims to reduce the administrative burden on fuel distributors by reducing the expected data content of their regular reporting obligations. The draft law also proposes to amend the law on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products, and concerns the tasks of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association. It aims to ensure that the Alliance itself carries out the tests necessary for the preparation of the annual fuel quality report to the European Union, reducing administrative burdens and costs. Dear House, The Hungarian Government also intends to contribute to the achievement of the climate protection objectives by meeting the EU's legal harmonisation obligations within the deadline. This is the purpose of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol implementing framework, as well as the technical addition and amendment of the Law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the Effort Sharing Decision. The amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office excludes the application of a warning sanction to the energy efficiency fines for which there is an interest in the national economy as soon as possible in fulfilling the obligation imposed by the fine. The proposal establishes the legal basis for an online database in order to register energy savings and their beneficiaries in the energy efficiency obligation scheme established on 1 January 2021 and to ensure the safe transfer of energy savings. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the transport legislative proposals is to introduce the necessary legislative amendments to the existing legislation in the field of rail, shipping, air transport and road transport. The proposal to amend the Road Transport Act serves to transpose the Directive on the posting of drivers in the road transport sector at a legal level into domestic law, laying down specific rules on lex specialis, amending minimum conditions for implementing certain social legislation relating to road transport and supplementing administrative cooperation under the Internal Market Information System. The proposal sets out the sector-specific and different rules applicable to the general provisions on posting laid down in the Code of Work in the road transport sector and sets out the provisions on official controls and penalties for the posting of foreign drivers to be laid down at the statutory level. The amendments will facilitate the efficient development of Hungary's transport network. To this end, the amendment clarifies the obligation of local authorities to take over local roads, which the builder acting on behalf of the State gives them free of charge and simplifies the real estate registration procedures to be carried out during the construction of local roads. Dear House, The amendment to the Mining Act provides a solution for the exploitation of mineral resources which are necessarily extracted during transport investments but cannot be incorporated into the property concerned and cannot be used for regeneration. In addition to technical clarifications to facilitate the application of the Aviation Act and proposals for amendments resulting from the obligation to harmonise legislation, the proposed amendment contains a supplementary provision. Under the rules in force for the duration of the emergency, the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund may, in order to carry out its public service tasks, apply operational restrictions on unmanned aircraft and unmanned State aircraft and may operate in such an established airspace with unmanned aircraft or unmanned State aircraft, by drone. At present, this regulation is contained in a government regulation, but will be repealed once the emergency has ended. In order to ensure further applicability, it is necessary to increase the provision at the level of the Government Decree above to a legal level. The purpose of the amendment to the Road Transport Register Act is to clarify the reference to the data content of the documents set out in the Government Decree on road transport management tasks, the issue and withdrawal of road transport documents. It is also necessary to clarify the transfer of data between the vehicle register and the bond register. [[18.10]] The purpose of the amendment to the Water Transport Act is to ensure the transposition and implementation of directives and regulations which form part of the EU package on professional ship training in inland waterway transport and the transposition of legislative amendments which have become necessary in the field of shipping for reasons of maritime safety in the current legislation. Dear Parliament, On 16 July 2021, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary for the incomplete transposition of certain elements of the Single European Railway Area Directive. On the basis of a formal request from the Commission, Hungary has undertaken to amend or clarify the relevant provisions of the Railway Transport Act. To this end, it is necessary to amend the Rail Transport Act. The proposal also includes the designation of the development contributor and further necessary legislative provisions on developments in Budapest and Záhony. The purpose of the amendment to the Act on Accelerating and Simplification of Investment of Priority Economic Interests is to provide the builder with the possibility to request an environmental authority inquiry in the case of investment in transport infrastructure, even where it would not otherwise be necessary under the legislation. This is because of EU funding proposals, given that the existence of an environmental permit is a prerequisite for these funds. According to the amendment of the Electricity Act, in the case of local roads, public lighting equipment is transferred to the property and operation of the local government liable for public lighting. Where necessary for national road or rail traffic safety, the public lighting equipment shall be owned by the Hungarian State and operated by the road operator or infrastructure manager. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Passenger Services Act introduces the concept of a connected fee product, clarifies the provisions on body cameras and clarifies the power of the bus authority. The amendment of the Toll Act includes clarification and clarification of certain interpretation provisions, and also empowers the detailed rules for the reimbursement of the toll paid in advance but not used by the toll user to be laid down in the Government Decree. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Under the law adopted during the spring session, the Parliament placed tasks under the supervisory authority of the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities set up on 1 October 2021 aimed at strengthening the special role of the State to strengthen national sovereignty. However, public oversight and regulatory control based on a separate regulatory body status should also be ensured in other sectors with the same characteristics in terms of regulatory and market surveillance as those currently supervised by the Authority. National cybersecurity certification authority tasks under the Law on the Electronic Information Security of Public and Local Government Bodies shall be entrusted to the Authority with the exception of cybersecurity certification tasks related to military research, development, production and trade. The purpose of cybersecurity certification is to ensure compliance with ever-increasing cybersecurity requirements in the case of ICT devices and services that can be purchased by citizens and businesses. The indication of the guaranteed level of safety, similar to the CE marking, will be placed on the product, so the user will know exactly what reliability level of product he is buying or using. As a result, consumer confidence in infocommunications products can be effectively increased. The certification of products shall be carried out by accredited service providers and by manufacturers and distributors and shall be carried out by the authority for the market surveillance of those operators. Dear House, CHAPTER XXI The development and development of infocommunication applications and systems that guarantee the security of economic and social processes is a major challenge for national self-determination and the protection of citizens. The supervision of these solutions should be entrusted to bodies, authorities, which, by virtue of their privileges, guarantee efficient and safe operation. On the basis of the bill, the Authority will carry out, in future, the tasks related to the registration of organisations providing post-quantum encryption for the protection of electronic information systems, as well as organisations certifying the closure of information security elements, and the President of the Authority shall lay down the detailed rules for this. The amendment also proposes to change the rules on the publication of retail selling prices for manufactured tobacco by putting prices on the website to the authorities, thus simplifying the very wide range of rules and tasks. Among the rules concerning the management of the public authority, the bill proposes to establish the extent to which the supervisory fee is payable for the public authority service it provides, the criteria for determining it, the elements of the fee and the way in which it is paid, by order of the President of the Authority. In addition, the bill contains mainly legislative and practical amendments, clarifications and additions. In particular, it clarifies the State's tasks under the Law on Tobacco Control and Retailing of Tobacco Products between the Authority and the Central Government; it states that, in the event of an unauthorised cessation of tobacco retail activities, the authority will decide to withdraw the authorisation. Dear Parliament, I would ask you to support the bill on the basis of the reasons given. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-132	Thank you very much, Secretary of State László Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2021-11-09-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State gave a very detailed description of the amendments to the bill before us, the directions for amendments laid down in it. I don't want to repeat them. It can be seen, and it also appears from the expozee, that the amendments are primarily induced by practical experience and harmonisation obligations, so this package of amendments is also intended to address important everyday issues and problems. Two large areas have been mentioned by the Secretary of State and said in detail that one is the amendment of laws on energy and the other is the proposals for amendments that have come from certain areas of the transport field. Mr Secretary of State has mentioned some very important words, phrases, which also lay the foundations for these laws and amendments to these laws. These amendments concern, on the one hand, the Electricity Act or the gas supply amendments. These words are the priority public interest, security of supply and, in parallel, the contribution to climate protection objectives. I consider this to be very important, because these goals and effects affect all of us, all of us citizens, and it is important that these areas are focused on the government when it makes decisions or amends any law on the subject. Mr Secretary of State did not stress it, but perhaps he took a small detour for a sentence, but I would like to point out that Hungary is among the 21 countries in the world that have been able to reduce emissions over the last 30 years, while its economy has also increased, and in the area of climate and environmental protection we are preventing countries such as the Netherlands, Austria and Germany. [[18.20]] And we have no less ambition than the fact that by 2030 90 percent of the Hungarian economy will be free of emissions and completely climate neutral by 2050. I would certainly like to come up with four priorities on which we need to focus. This is to increase energy efficiency, reduce energy consumption, preserve energy independence and maintain low overhead prices. In my view, we must treat these four pillars together in order to be effective and effective. It should also be noted that the EU summit ended about two weeks ago, the EU summit, whose main theme was the rise in energy prices, because we can see incredible rising energy prices, and there is a fear that some of this is due to the European Commission's inadequate energy policy. I see it, and I have been watching for years that the Hungarian government has been trying to compensate for it, and it saves consumers from price increases, because the price of natural gas on European markets has increased by 400 percent in one year, the price of electricity has increased by 80 to 100 percent, while in Hungary, the cost of electricity has not been rising in every European country. And I thought it was important to highlight this because it concerns all of us, and this is an important pillar for achieving climate targets with the strengthening of the other three pillars. I think that the government will continue to defend this kind of result, the result of the reduction of the overhead. The other important area to which the Secretary of State has addressed is the amendment to the legislation on transport. We've learned a lot of details from the expo. The Minister of State also said that Hungary's transport network is constantly expanding and developing, and that he is trying to address the issues that have been raised regularly in practice during the implementation of transport investments and the development of transport infrastructure, and this is the purpose of the amendment. I would like to underline that the proper technical state of transport networks is important not only for Hungarian people and businesses, but also for the economy as a whole, so this could be a driving area for the development of the economy. Here, too, we see that in recent years the government has made great efforts to achieve results in this area. There have been major and partly domestic road improvements and road renovations in several programmes. More than 6,000 kilometres of roads were renewed from HUF 755 billion. This year, the government will continue to modernise the national road network with even greater momentum, especially by renovating the lower road sections, the total value of which is more than HUF 220 billion. This is just a detail and part of a number of legislative amendments, but I think it is very important to bear in mind all of these, because this amendment also concerns and supports the fact that the momentum of road renovations can continue and that we can strengthen our economy. This is very necessary after a pandemic or living in the fourth wave of the pandemic, so that we can build our future with confidence and hope when the epidemic is over. I promised my fellow Members that I would not give very detailed information on certain points of the bill, Mr Secretary of State said a lot. What I can add to this is that the Fidesz fraction will support this proposal, and I also warmly recommend it to my fellow Members. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-09-134	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2021-11-09-135	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Allow me to say a few words about the genre of this bill. That's what we usually call a salad law. I can say that this is the biggest salad I've ever known in the most mixed way, where the fruit salad and the vegetables are together to carry this metaphor where the banana has the cherry and the strong peppers; so that's all there is to it. Otherwise, I do not necessarily make this an accusation to the governing parties, because if I look at the fact that there are two more meetings to be held this year, in February it is likely that a three-week meeting will be held, then I understand that there are legal harmonisation obligations and that the government would like to proceed with this. Let me tell you the number, though. 36 points of this law are 36 different topics, 213 of paragraph 84 pages. There is no real coherence in this, because if we read the general justification of this law, it was generally unable to express anything, but slightly arbitraryly or according to its own taste, the author highlighted the specific paragraphs which he considered to be more important there, and specifically pointed out them as general justifications. What's wrong with a congressman? And let me say that there is a difference here between a pro-government and an opposition representative, because if there are proposals to support in a bill and the opposition believes that what it cannot support is difficult to decide on this with a final vote. I do not underestimate the pro-government representatives that they are looking at and preparing for it, but at some level it is typical and perhaps in our current pro-government side, and it is understandable in part that it is fulfilling the government's legislative programme. So they have less of a dilemma than we do that this point is very positive; well, I can't support that in the end? Well, I'd also like to quote some of it out-of-the-box, perhaps even to prove that I've been going over this bill. And let me add one more thing: how would I have solved it? Mónika Bartos saw this pretty well, and I agree. There are two areas of this which are in very significant quantities here, and mostly harmonisation of laws. There's energy and transport. It could have been one individual, and a third of all the others. The title reads as follows: to amend certain laws relating to energy and transport, as well as related laws. Well, the reason we can't talk about connectivity is because the official pricing of tobacco products is not related to energy or transport anyway. Then let me mention some of the elements. A directive and regulation on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which forms part of the package of clean energy in the European Union, will be transposed. It's very important, very right, it has to be done. The purpose of the amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is to establish an online register containing all verified energy savings as property rights and their right holders up-to-date. Again, this is very important if we take environmental protection and climate protection seriously, so it is absolutely necessary to support it. There is a very interesting subject, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State. Perhaps I am trying to be a little political in my hope to interpret well, this is the directive on transport, which applies to posting. [[18.30]] This, in fact, caused a very big storm in the European Parliament at the time, especially between the eastern countries of Poland, Bulgaria, Hungary and the Western countries. This mainly concerned cabotage operations and tried to limit the fact that if these Hungarian, Polish, Bulgarian suppliers and carriers, let's say in France, could provide the service at a cheaper price, they could obtain a significant market there. If we say that freedom of service is a fundamental principle of the European Union, then why must we prevent Hungary, if it can provide this service in this way, from being more competitive? Because, I would add, apparently they wanted to help us, that the carriers were required to get the same thing the French and the union there, what kind of hotel they were staying in, and what extra salary they would get. We were talking about the fact that these workers were pleased to receive a significantly higher wage than the current domestic situation, which was still competitive, say, in France. On the other hand, the regulation which seeks to eliminate this possibility came, so it is against the freedom of the service in Hungarian. And what we are talking about here is that I hope to make it clear that I understand that these posting rules do not apply in the case of a transfer from a given country to another destination country. Transit and bilateral transport operations are not subject to these rules. So at least we are trying to ensure that this strict condition should not be imposed, which we should consider positive. Interestingly, there is also the development of H5-H6/H7 HÉV in this bill. The project was named in Hungary's recovery and resilience plan to finance the construction tasks. We are very confident that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, will be able to demonstrate as soon as possible that European Union funds will be used in the framework of as much control as possible, and that this recovery plan will finally be adopted by the European Union and these projects will not be opened in connection with foreign borrowing and bond issuance. There is a very interesting, once again positive suggestion that the construction of public works is not permitted in the winter period under several municipal regulations, and today we must see that technologically there has been such a change that at present, at a lower level of daily temperature, it would be possible to carry out these constructions. It is very important to lift this restriction, because this work could take several months to do so. Then it could be suggested how Jobbik tries, how I try to make the final decision on this bill. There is a topic that is not a detailed question related to the current, unacceptable direction of the Fidesz-KDNP administration at the end of the current cycle, this is the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities and the extension of its eligibility in paragraph 11. What is the similarity between the supervisory authority for regulated activities, KEKVA, and the new professional ambition of public trust foundations with a public mission? It was practically inspired by the fact that for the first time Fidesz-KDNP may have a government change, and in this case, nine years or forever, like KEKVA, it is necessary to ensure that the future government does not have any new government over them, but to weaken it in the future. As a matter of interest: Public trust foundations carrying out public tasks are the outsourcing of higher education from public governance to private foundations, not for nine years, but with feudal rights, where appropriate forever, because the absurd decision has been made for the founder, the government, to hand over the founder's rights to the board. Monika Karas is the president of a very important institution, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, and the Media Council, and her nine-year mandate would expire next autumn, but suddenly she realized that she had ambition in new areas, and that she could not wait for this period, the nine years, and she resigned. What does it make possible? So that for nine years now, this majority can appoint a man who can't be replaced. Come on. And what is this, the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities? This deals with the supervision of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty, taking over from the Minister of Justice; as successor to the Gambling Inspectorate, the licensing and official supervision of gambling management; the management of the list of insolvency administrators, the official supervision of certain winding-up activities; the procedures for the conclusion of a concession contract on behalf of the State. And here it is extending to 11 paragraphs, for example, as of 1 January 2022, to take over tasks related to the retail trade of manufactured tobacco from the National Tax and Customs Office; by the way, let us add, a president appointed for nine years, whose personality has not been attempted in such a case, if a consensus, an ex-fidesz State Secretary has been appointed to do so. Well, he's also putting a new set of funds into the account of the tobacco concession revenue that goes into the administration and now pay attention, which will no longer be recorded as a budget revenue, but as a ownership transaction. Fidesz is practically outsourcing the State through this supervisory authority. And one last sentence to do so, which may make it even more obvious that this is the part of the law that Jobbik will vote no for: the decision of the authority in administrative proceedings cannot be changed by the court in administrative proceedings. Here is the rule of law: there is nothing a court can do in this case. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-11-09-136	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-11-09-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I absolutely believe Mr Balczó that he has chewed his way through the salad law and has contributed to many of his passions. I think you've read it a little bit longer, Mr President, because the world of universities, higher education, has already come here. Obviously, you've found a theoretical connection, I understand that. I have also highlighted a few parts of the bill, Mr Secretary of State, in quite detail the many details of the salad law, especially the energy part of the current bill, since this bill proposes changes and measures in the energy sector, based on the practices of the past period. [[18.40]] It obviously includes changes in the field of rail, shipping, air transport and road transport, legislative harmonisation, codification, technical amendments, but also substantive changes. Among the energy changes, the bill establishes the legal basis for the installation of the hydrogen system, and I see this as a new idea and a very important step forward, as the Hungarian Natural Gas Storage Ltd. is part of the Akvamarin pilot project. plans to establish an electrolysing system with a total power of approximately 2,5 megawatts and a corresponding hydrogen gas pre-treatment technology in the underground storage area of the Cardoskút. The installation of the hydrogen system shall ensure that hydrogen is produced through water separation using excess electricity. The hydrogen produced in this way is planned to be mixed with natural gas by the Hungarian Natural Gas Storage Ltd. It will be used in its own gas-powered equipment to reduce CO2 emissions. Our aim is to keep the energy supply of Hungary and the Hungarian people safe, to protect the results of the reduction of electricity and to reduce CO2 emissions. In Western Europe, there is already a serious energy crisis, the overhead has skyrocketed, and the situation will only deteriorate further, according to analysts, in the coming months. You have seen that it has become a tangible reality in Western Europe that people will be forced to suffer a short or longer period of power failure or a lack of heating in the winter months. In Austria, citizens are already being prepared on billboards and online advertisements for a week or ten days of energy failure due to the energy crisis. The Austrian rescue service signal is particularly ominous, according to which, in the event of a lack of electricity, they can function effectively for a maximum of 48 hours. In Germany, disaster management has produced a film on how older, single citizens can defend themselves in the event of a possible energy outage of several days. On the other hand, there is a continuous supply of electricity and gas in Hungary. On 1 October 2021, the new long-term gas supply contract with Gazprom for 15 years entered into force, with lower prices and more favourable and safer conditions for Hungary. In addition, in response to the attacks in Ukraine, Borrell, the European Union's foreign and security policy representative, said that there is nothing illegal about the agreement between Hungary and Gazprom, nothing contrary to European law. Hungary is therefore preparing with predictable, continuous energy supply and Europe's lowest energy prices for the winter ahead. However, if it were up to the left, the reduction would be abolished, which your joint Prime Minister's candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, said that he did not want to maintain in this form the reduction. We can remember that between 2002 and 2010, you doubled the price of electricity and triple the price of gas, honourable socialists, so Hungarians had to pay 1060 billion forints more for their overhead costs. If we were to return to market price regulation before 2010, an average Hungarian family would spend 32,000 HUF a month more on overhead. This would add nearly 400 thousand forints per year to an average Hungarian family, and in this calculation it does not include how the market price of natural gas, for example, could increase in the months ahead. According to a study carried out by the European Commission, Hungary has been able to reduce the share of the households concerned among the Member States of the European Union to the greatest extent in both key indicators of energy poverty since the introduction of the reduction. While 15 percent of households were unable to heat up their homes sufficiently in 2012 and almost 25 percent were regularly delayed by paying their bills due to financial difficulties, the rates changed to 6 and 11 percent for the last available year. According to the September 2021 data of the international price comparison study of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, domestic retail consumers can obtain gas in Europe at the lowest and the second most favourable average price. This is what he said to Klára Dobrev that the reduction of the rent did not happen, and Peter James said that the reduction of the rent was a scam of the century. This reduction was called by your current Prime Minister's candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, who said that instead of reducing costs, we should go back to world market prices and use less water, electricity and gas. I understand that you're uncomfortable with the sentences of your candidate for Prime Minister, but they came from him, recently, yesterday, the day before yesterday, from last week. We therefore have a lot to protect from the left, because we are also continuing to fight climate protection in addition to the reduction of the costs. In the last thirty years, as the Congresswoman has said, Hungary has been able to make economic growth by reducing its CO2 emissions. In addition to Hungary, only 19 other countries in the world have been able to achieve this performance. In Hungary, CO2 emissions decreased by 32 percent and energy consumption decreased by 15 percent. So there is something to be proud of, but there is also a need for further significant steps. The government's programme is to achieve by 2030 that the energy produced in Hungary is 90% carbon-free and that Hungary will become a climate-neutral country by 2050. To this end, in Hungary until 2030, two new 1200 megawatt nuclear power plants will be built and the capacity of solar power plants will be multiplied by 2030, thus increasing to 6500 megawatts. If the nuclear power plant is properly operational, it does not produce carbon dioxide, it is free from harmful emissions, so it does not pollute the environment, it does not play a role in climate change. We know very well that we have repeatedly argued that nuclear power is, in our view, pure energy. We see that in France, for example, 75 percent of electricity comes from nuclear power plants; 15-17 percent of the world's electricity supply is also produced by nuclear power plants. We treat nature conservation, climate protection, creation protection as a priority. We believe that it is important to protect the results of the reduction and that Hungary should move forward in technologies such as hydrogen use. I highlighted one or two points, but of course we found all the points of the salad law eligible, so our faction will support it. Thank you very much. [[Mónika Bartos applauds.]]
u2021-11-09-138	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to the next speaker, Member Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2021-11-09-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill is a classic salad law, in which 33 different laws are amended for various reasons. Normally, amendments to each area should have been tabled in separate legislative proposals in order to enable Parliament to thoroughly discuss the reasons for the proposed amendments and the directions for the proposed amendments. Instead, what probably happened was that László Palkovics put everything he found in the Ministry into one proposal, saying that it would make it easier to hide amendments in the proposal that could pose political risks. The content and justification of the bill are not in line from a formal point of view, for example, the justification refers to the fact that the European Commission on 16 July 2021 2021 2021/2092. The European Parliament and the Council of 21 November 2012 initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary in view of the lack of compliance with Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area. On the basis of a formal request from the Commission, Hungary has undertaken to amend or clarify the relevant provisions of the State Property Act on several points. In comparison, none of the provisions of the bill affect the 2007 Law on State Property. The amendment to the Mining Act states as a new provision that, in the case of road constructions, in the case of railway works, the mining contractor, which is contracted to the builder acting on behalf of the State, acquires the investment-based mineral raw material, i.e. clay, sand, and the rest of its ownership for a fee of 50 per cent, so that it does not need to be stored, stored and sold freely. The proposal is likely to have a particularly positive impact on the near-government or directly-Prime Minister mining companies who are transporting gravel, gravel and other raw materials to the public construction of the Orbán system, as they have done in recent years. The amendment to the Electricity Act and the Gas Supply Act that no longer requires a postal notification to the electricity and gas dealer of the first notification of the debt and the possibility of switching off is an adverse amendment for retail users, merely stating that it is required to do so in writing. [[18.50]] That this actually happened, there are no provisions in the law. This reduces the level of consumer protection vis-à-vis the electricity and gas supplier. This suggests that Fidesz wants to simplify the possibility of switching off from the service and increase the number of disabled people. The bill does not provide any guarantee that everyone has access to the electricity, gas or water required for life support. The faster connection of the property alone does not guarantee access to public utility supply, the 1 cubic meter per month of water on the subject law at a price of 1 HUF per cubic meter, and an affordable quantity of electricity and gas that is subject to the right of everyone. This would allow no one to remain without electricity, water and gas, as the MSZP and Dialogue presented in their joint bill, which the governing parties of course voted against. On the basis of the bill, those who have previously been turned off due to a fee or do not provide for the installation of prepaid meters will not be returned to the network. Therefore, it would be necessary to require, in our proposal, that the rules on reimbursement of costs also cover the switch-back of the network, because the costs of the switch-back are so high that those who have been turned off once cannot reconnect most of the time, even though they may already have been able to pay the bill themselves. And it is also important that prepaid meters are installed free of charge for those who ask for them. According to the MSZP, there is a need for a system of symbolic access to basic public services at affordable prices corresponding to half the current tariff for electricity and natural gas in the case of water to the extent necessary for the maintenance of life. What we want is for no one to get into an unworthy position because they can't pay the heating, water or lighting bills. And although Péter Horváth's office predecessor said that, by September 2020, the MEKH will prepare its proposals with a new social tariff and a fixed price system, this has not yet happened. The Government has previously stressed on several occasions that there is no conflict with EU law on the reduction of costs. It is therefore incomprehensible why the bill does not contain a proposal to freeze or reduce the retail prices of natural gas, electricity and district heating, as promised by the Prime Minister. Since April 2014, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, responsible for price monitoring, has not once proposed a reduction in retail prices, even though the wholesale price of natural gas has decreased by half in recent years. And here I would say to my Fidesz fellow Member that, at the moment, what he is saying, it may be true that in the last few weeks, in particular, weeks, up to a month or two, the increase in the energy price is currently being protected by the Hungarian system, but in recent years, we have been presenting Parliament's proposals for four to five to six years, we have held a press conference, we have called the attention of the public and the government that they have cut through Hungarian people in such a way that it has been a pleasure to watch. In recent years, as I have read, the price of energy, such as natural gas, has been reduced by half, and you have kept the official price at the same level. Do you know what happened? Hundred-billion-dollar cash went to the energy trading companies and God knows who made yachts and luxury villas and stuff like that. Or did they put it aside, and now they can compensate for it? Can you demonstrate, my fellow Member somewhere, that for the past four or five years... [[To Nacsa Lőrinc on his way to the seat of his representatives:]] He was not here, I am only telling you because I would like to argue with you on this point that what you are saying is true at the moment that, in addition to current world market prices, the price, the fixed price for the reduction of the rent, is now protecting the Hungarian population, but in the last four or five years, my fellow Member, you have fooled people, because in the years after the agreed price, for example, the price of natural gas has decreased by half, and you have not reduced the price of the residential land house by a penny. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Now it's eight times more!]] And as I just said, hundreds of billions of fabulous fortunes were once again in someone's pocket, hundreds of billions of dollars a year. At least they would've put it in a fund that would make up for it afterwards, but as far as I know, none of this happened. Obviously huge forks and giant yachts and shit knows what else has become of private individuals! Someday, when you really get there, or anyone else, I don't care, except for you, when MET Zrt. does. Someone's been looking back at the operation of the last few years, then, I think you'll see very, very scary and surprising things there. Changing the sanctions applicable to the energy efficiency obligation system is evidence that the system introduced by Fidesz does not meet the government's expectations. The energy efficiency obligation system basically leaves it to energy traders and large companies involved in the savings obligation to implement it, which does not foresee that a wide-ranging renovation of the poorly-efficient, degraded domestic housing stock would occur. It is regrettable that the new national energy strategy adopted by the Fidesz government in January 2020 does not include targeted support for the deep renovation of the so-called Kádár cube and the other 1.4 million condominiums and apartments. However, the version agreed by the ITM contains this, and to date there is no real reason for the change. The Fidesz government has not previously given priority to increasing energy efficiency. Even in 2015, the government was too late to transpose the Energy Efficiency Directive, and partly due to delays and partly inadequate implementation, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. The amendment to the Energy Efficiency Act adopted a year ago also seemed to be the simpler way to check the obligation to harmonise legislation than a package of measures aimed at achieving real results. The above also confirms that the Orbán government does not care about efficient energy use. Although the various strategic documents correctly define the objectives, increasing energy efficiency has not been at the heart of the government's energy policy measures. On the producer side, banning high-efficiency cogeneration from a mandatory take-over system has essentially resulted in the return of past polluting and less efficient technologies while no meaningful progress has been made on the user side. Current retail prices are only a semi-solution to reduce energy costs, but they do not even encourage more efficient and efficient energy use by those who would have the means to refurbish. This is also the reason why government programmes that encourage energy saving have also been significantly reduced. In the last ten years, we should not have spent thousands of billion forints on energy purchases and company purchases that enrich foreign investors MOL 500 billion, E.ON 260 billion, Main Gas 90 billion, MBBF 140 billion, and it would still be a long line to spend, but perhaps for the insulation and renovation of the domestic building stock, thus achieving substantial and significant energy savings and efficiency improvements. The tasks of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association are extended, so in the future it can also spend its revenues on purchasing, developing, establishing, acquiring ownership in storage companies and repaying its loans. The question is how much of the stock-holding fee currently paid by non-resident users in the price of natural gas or the payment of petroleum products at petrol stations will be involved in the establishment of the electricity storage project, what does MSZKZR have to do with the establishment of the electricity storage facility, why it is not intended to be created by a publicly owned company. What should be highlighted in the amending provisions of the transport legislation is the amendment of the rules on the posting of road transport and passenger transport workers, on which the proposal does not contain any indication of whether or not the sectoral trade unions have been consulted on this matter and what they have come up with. Fixing the privileged position of MTVA at the statutory level with regard to the exemption from drone flight restrictions... I don't think you need to comment on that. The restrictions on the right of air traffic controllers to strike should be further highlighted in the transport legislation. And finally, of course, as in the last two weeks, the responsibilities and budgets of the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities appear here as a small ball in every law. Of course, by not going into the details, they will receive more money and new powers. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP does not support the adoption of the bill on the basis of the above comments, because it does not include our proposals and guarantees for access to secure energy supplies for a wide range of consumers; the provision of 1 cubic metre of water per month on the subject rights at a price of 1 HUF per cubic metre; the provision of affordable electricity and gas for all, subjective, necessary for subsistence; the free re-connection of consumers from public utility services and the free installation of pre-paying meters; the elimination of the basic fee for gas and electricity and water; the reduction of energy prices held unduly high by the government and the introduction of a fair strip price. Thank you so much for listening. [[19.00]]
u2021-11-09-140	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I now give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group.
u2021-11-09-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Members have given us very detailed and well-founded criticism and criticism of the bill. What I can tell you is that Mr Secretary of State is in an extremely uncomfortable position as Secretary of State for Transport Policy at the presentation of such an extreme salad law and at the debate on this. I think it is absolutely justified to refer to this. I agree with Congressman Balczó. We have often found that one of the manifestations of the poor quality of government is that they bring a lot of salad laws to Parliament, laws that contain a lot, a lot of incoherence, elements that really have nothing to do with each other. But you could say that this is out of line in the wrong direction. The Secretary of State responsible for transport policy has an ungrateful task at a time when it should be debated about the amendment of the Mining Act, the Law on the transformation and protection of the built environment, or the Act on district heating, electricity and gas supply. But how the Traffic Act was amended, I suppose no one can explain it, perhaps even Congressman Nacsa could explain in some way how the Traffic Act was amended, but it is certainly clear that it is not taking us into the field of transport policy. This also underlines what we have said many times that there is no strategic thinking, no foresight, the government usually runs after events. Mr Balczó also pointed out that there is now a time squeeze, and that is why there is obviously going to be more and more salad laws of this kind. This also leads to the fact that we have not yet been able to find solutions to basic system problems that are trying to resolve, where appropriate, in terms of utility supply, transport policy, infrastructure development, but we do not see any real results. I do not wish to repeat the detailed criticism of my fellow Members, but I would just like to briefly point out, in addition to some reaction, that there are obviously some elements that we agree with, but there are very, very many elements of this bill that are unacceptable to us. As a positive element in the context of public utility constructions, it is possible to conduct them under specific weather conditions. That's obviously positive. Obviously, legislation must also follow technical and technical progress, and if anything is possible and positive, it is justified to allow it and to allow it in the legislation by means of the amendment. We also consider it important that the Environmental Authority can carry out the environmental authorisation procedure in all cases, even if it has not been required by legislation in force before. This is also a positive step, and we also consider the extension of the powers of the Forestry Authority to be positive. Obviously, the range of measures with which we disagree is much longer. You have already referred to drone regulation, Congressman Bellozó. I think it would also be worth a stand-alone speech to talk about this anomaly and the political will behind it, and the damage it will cause to this sector, and it has already caused it. They alone make such a salad law unacceptable. There has been talk of changing the case of unused mineral resources intended to be recultivated, that it has so far remained state-owned, and that it is now possible to give priority to abuses and economic lunar yards. It is clearly visible, and based on the experience of the years so far, it can be concluded that this legislative amendment is obviously preparing for this. But how did it come to amend the law on the operation and contracts of tobacco stores? This cannot be considered coherent in any way. I would like to refer to some of the things that have been said here during the debate. Congressman Nacsa mentioned the operational safety of nuclear power plants. We have debated this issue a lot. Congressman, in the case of the current nuclear power plant, there have only been 21 failures or malfunctions that have not been planned in the last three years. I think we can agree that it would be very difficult to talk about operational security under such conditions. The extension of the operating time has been completed for the currently operating blocks, yet there are a lot of such malfunctions and failures. It has been mentioned here and I would like to ask this as a question, in addition to energy efficiency, about environmental protection, environmental aspects, green policy, climate protection. We had quite a lot of discussions here a year ago on the railway sidelines situation. I have repeatedly asked questions to Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to do the same now. In the case of 32 railway sidelines, the government implemented a so-called epidemiological agenda, which meant that, in the event of an epidemic, when railway sidelines allow significantly more safety than buses with much less capacity, this shameful step of the bus lobby was carried out there. If I remember correctly, ten cases of local political pressure and protest have been corrected, but what about the remaining 22 railway sidelines? Has this so-called epidemiological agenda been in place on the sidelines since then, and has any review been carried out in this regard? That is what I would like to ask the Secretary of State. He mentioned the reduction of the rent, presenting the current Fidesz propaganda, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. I just want to ask you one thing back. We have talked a lot about the situation in the water utility sector. We know that this is on the verge of collapse, and we also know exactly what the situation of service providers has been in, because of the freezing of prices, that the maintenance and replacement work has been cancelled for many years, and we are now at a loss of thousands of billion forints in 15 years to maintain the most important public service. There was indeed a kind of expectation here when public utilities were built from EU development sources that maintenance should be enforced in price policy. This will probably make it very difficult to find EU funds for replacement, maintenance and replacement. In what way does the government intend to face this situation? We have come this far, and I have also asked the Prime Minister about this, that this is an extremely serious, huge problem, but we have not yet heard of the solution, that the government has any idea that they will at least put something on paper in the next six months before the change of government in order to resolve this important problem. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Congresswoman Mónika Bartos mentioned the development of the road, the development of the network, that with enormous resources a lot of roads have been renovated. Well, not so long ago, the competent bodies published statistics on state-owned roads from 2019 to 2020 and we can see that they have continued to deteriorate. You have indeed inherited a difficult situation in 2010, but instead of solving it, you have started to go in the direction of eliminating problems and that, in addition to propaganda, the proportion of high-quality roads is increasing, well, Congressman Nacsa, the length and proportion of roads with poor quality and quality levels in the Hungarian road network has increased in recent years. So we continue to see in propaganda how much money, how much energy is being spent on road development, and yet the situation is getting worse and the road network is typically getting worse in the countryside. Did this government have any idea when they would get there, so that it wouldn't get worse every year, that they would come out at least zero in a year, so that, with the many, many, propagandaally announced road development, things wouldn't get any worse? I would like to ask one more specific question, although it might be better for Minister Palkovic because of the aspects in Debrecen. Several of the pro-government speakers mentioned environmental green points. We can see that the government now has a so-called green online consultation that can be described by propaganda elements; Congresswoman Mónika Bartos has also spoken about this. I would like to mention a specific example. The commitment of municipalities to the current salad law has also been raised. What do you think of this, Mr. Secretary? On 17 September, Debrecen's pro-government mayor announced that the University Avenue will begin in Debrecen on 20 September, as well as the renovation of Bethlen Street and its two-track reconstruction. The investment will, as a rule, further increase the transit traffic in the downtown, with significant noise and air pollution, and a significant reduction in the green area of Bethlen Street. [[19.10]] That local party organizations, local civilians, protested strongly, raised their voices, did not particularly interest the Fidesz leadership of Debrecen, and ignored this protest. What is the State Secretary's view on this, he accepted that Debrecen's pro-government mayor has set the goal of further increasing car traffic, and that this investment will lead to an increase in noise and air pollution, and in what impact studies can a city's management take such decisions? I think that we should not only talk about applying these aspects, green aspects, at the level of urban policy, but indeed we should move in a direction, let us say, a political force, either at the level of national policy or city policy or municipal policy, which does not increase such effects, does not increase environmental damage and environmental problems due to the known impacts, but is trying to move in a positive, indeed green direction. I would like to hear the opinion of the Secretary of State on this particular matter. Of course, the LMP fraction will not be able to support the bill because of the many problems mentioned. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-142	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I would also like to welcome my fellow Members. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor for a two-minute comment to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik.
u2021-11-09-143	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I quickly went over these two hundred and fifteen-something paragraphs and thirty-five points, and I could not find the regulation on nuclear energy. But since this has worked, I would like to respond very briefly to what you said, Mr President, because it is a really scary number, and we have heard it here and in Parliament last autumn that 21 failures, so the production of nuclear energy is so uncertain. Here, a fellow Member practically spoke of Paks as the end because: explosion in the Belarusian nuclear power plant, Paks II. Brother. You know that, but let me tell you: how is electricity produced? There is a base source of energy, where appropriate, a nuclear energy process, a nuclear reaction, oil, where appropriate, as a base-energy carrier, natural gas, coal. By heating this water in boilers at high pressure, high temperature, the turbine expands, turns the turbine, the turbine turns the generator, there is typically 15.5 kilooltons of electricity, and then in order to bring it to the network, there are so-called block transformers, let's say 400 kilowatts. What happened to Paks II. Brother? The transformer exploded. If it produces energy from natural gas, it will explode in the same way, so this failure has nothing to do with the fact that it was basic nuclear energy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So it's obviously serious when there's a nuclear problem, but often it's not. That wasn't it either. Thank you.
u2021-11-09-144	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to respond. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you to the Fidesz and KDNP faction for supporting expressions. Indeed, many people think that energy and transport are not related, although energy and transport are treated as one in many countries and institutions, but there are usually so many changes that we have done separately. These themes are absolutely interrelated. I also thank those who have expressed their views on the Mobility Directive. For many years, we have fought together with several other countries to ensure that this mobility package is not adopted by the Council or Parliament on a proposal from the Commission. Unfortunately, in this fight, we were not successful in all aspects, and all countries had to be transposed into the legal order. Here, the posting directive is being transposed into the domestic legal order so that the owners or users of foreign vehicles arriving in Hungary are also obliged to comply with the items of directive contained in the mobility package in Hungary, so that it is precisely for the purpose of not being a competitive disadvantage for Hungarian entrepreneurs. We very much hope that the processes that have now started in Europe, for the first time in England, we have seen the lack of goods, the lack of fuel because of the lack of drivers, the lack of transport capacity, this has to be shown in several countries. This is one of the signs that the mobility package is working. We have received comments and questions about the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities. The proposal does not concern the term of office of the President of the Authority, the office of President of KEKVA or the NMHH. Control of tobacco trade is still the authority's power, from the NAV only the price disclosure will be transferred from 1 January. Tobacco concession revenues are not for the Authority, but are included in the revenue of the central budget. The proposal contains general government clarification on the registration of concession revenue. In connection with mining and extraction materials, the contractor has purchased and stored the raw materials, but has remained the property of the State, but it remains its responsibility to guard and store them. They could practically not be sold. This new bill covers only investments that are priority for the national economy. It covers construction contractors who are not mining contractors. If they were, they could get the extracted material, they wouldn't need that change. Hungary has started a dynamic road and rail development programme in the last decade and has successfully continued. In the next decade, the greater emphasis will be on rail development. Accordingly, in the question of Mr Lóránt Keresztes, I would like to say that all Hungarian railway lines have rail passenger services, and we are giving back rail transport on an increasing number of lines even to a higher level than before the pandemic. An example of this is the Esztergom-Almásütő railway, where eight pairs of trains will run daily from the new winter change between Esztergom and Süttő. But I could mention Békés County or the increase in the supply of services by train on the Dombóvár-Komló railway or on the Villány-Mohács railway. Road development and road maintenance, road renovation are two different areas. In road development, we can be proud of the fact that within the framework of our unique road programme, which is already financed by the Hungarian budget, we have built a motorway and a motorway system in Hungary that is worthy of recognition in Europe, and, for example, the Hungarian section of Via Carpatia was completed five years before the deadline in excellent quality. The Hungarian Road manages 32,000 kilometers. Indeed, a significant part of this, almost half of it is not in good shape, but I would say that since 2010, so during the operation of the civilian government, we have renewed more than 6,000 kilometres of roads. Only this year 1200 kilometers will be renovated within the framework of the Hungarian village, the TOP support, the complex road renovation program and the programmes based on high social needs, worth nearly HUF 330 billion this year. This ensures that road renovation is now carried out to the extent of depreciation. So at this rate, the disadvantage can be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. With regard to the increase in car traffic, noise and air pollution, I would say that it is not certain that vehicles driving at higher speeds emit more noise or more harmful substances. We have prepared a study covering the effects of speed reduction on urban motorways. There is a lower speed, right, because of the lower engine speed, higher speeds, it can result in more emissions. [[19.20]] For example, I have to mention Moscow, where a five-beam ring was built with avenues, but at the same time a very good public transport system, a suburban rail system, and a parking network were also created in order to make it possible for the person who needed it to go by car. Therefore, it is not certain that narrowing down, narrowing down lanes, unwarranted formation of cycling lanes and other restrictions can only reduce car traffic to public transport that we strive to develop and work on, and that this related road infrastructure together can achieve a minimum reduction in noise pollution and air pollution. On the subject of the reduction of the rent, Mr Tamás Harangozó also mentioned that when the gas price was lower than before the reduction of the rent, what we used these resources for. A significant part of the final consumer prices have been offset by the use of the system to cover the costs of improving energy infrastructure development, operation and maintenance, which should reduce a significant lack of status in previous years. So in these years, when there may have been more, we sought to improve the quality of the network precisely in order to ensure that network losses, which should be paid to all end-users, would be much lower than they were before. I think it is clear that losses on a faulty network can be made easier. Thank you very much, that's all I thought. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/17431. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, passenger transport and freight transport between Ukraine and the European Union have also continued to expand, but this has been blocked by the pandemic caused by the coronal virus. The bill before you, the recently signed agreement, aims to gradually open up the relevant aviation markets and integrate Ukraine into a wider European Common Aviation Area. Ukraine will thus continue to harmonise EU aviation rules and its internal rules in areas such as aviation safety, air traffic services, aviation security, environmental protection, economic and competition regulation, consumer protection and social aspects. In addition, the agreement is expected to offer new air transport opportunities, more direct connections and economic benefits to the signatories. All EU airlines can operate direct flights from any point of departure within the Union to any airport in Ukraine and vice versa for Ukrainian airlines. The restrictions on flights between Ukraine and the European Union have been removed and the provisions on open and fair competition will ensure a level playing field. Dear House, The agreement facilitates the maintenance of people-to-people relations and extends trade opportunities between the European Union and Ukraine. Wizz Air Hungary, a Hungarian-bound airline, also offers very beneficial opportunities. Within a short period of time after the agreement was signed, the airline announced the launch of several new routes and initiated a limited Budapest-Kiev frequency expansion, which was made possible by this comprehensive agreement. The agreement constitutes an international contract under the law on the procedure for international contracts and should therefore be published in law. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill and its publication. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-09-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The EU-Ukraine summit took place for the 23rd time in October this year, where, in addition to two other proposals, the text of the proposal before us was signed in Kiev. This international treaty opens the way, as Mr Secretary of State has said, for the creation of a common air transport area between the EU and Ukraine. This is very important, as Ukraine is an increasingly important aviation market for the EU, as in 2019 it was the 13th largest non-EU market with 9,8 million passengers. It is part of the agreement that all EU airlines can operate direct flights from any point of the EU to any airport in Ukraine, and vice versa for Ukrainian airlines. All restrictions on flights between Ukraine and the EU will be lifted, and the provisions on open and fair competition will ensure a level playing field, as referred to by the Secretary of State. This will facilitate market access and offer new opportunities for consumers and airlines on both sides. However, if we are talking about Ukraine, we should mention that unfortunately, Hungarian-Ukrainian relations have been experiencing difficult times in the past and in the present period. We do not need to go far, we can only think of the language law, the education law or the expulsion of politicians without notice, or the recent attack that followed the Hungarian-Russian long-term gas purchase agreement. Of course, however, we are doing everything we can to improve our relations, because it is also in the interests of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia with a population of 150 000 that our eastern neighbour is strengthened and that the sovereignty of its territorial units is also a fact, and that it will not be damaged in the future. We therefore call for closer cooperation between Ukraine and the EU on all international platforms. We also supported and supported the visa facilitation of Ukrainian citizens, and it is no secret that we have been behind the EU's and NATO's non-recognition policy in the context of the illegal annexation of Crimea. So I think that we are doing everything we can to improve our relations and bring the two countries closer to each other, and this agreement, which is about establishing a common aviation area, and makes it easier for citizens, airlines and the market to get closer, will be a step forward in this. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the proposal. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-09-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next keynote speaker is Mr Zoltán Balczó, who presented the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-151	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Obviously, we don't have a big playground here. There is an international treaty that has been concluded between the Member States of the European Union and Ukraine, and this must now be announced by a law. About why this is important, Mónika Bartos said data. In other respects, it is obviously important that airlines comply with the quality required in the European Union from a consumer point of view and should therefore be supported in substance. But let me make a little skeptical myself. I was present in the European Parliament when Parliament voted in favour of the Association Treaty between the European Union and Ukraine, between very large externalities: there was a joint meeting between the two parliaments, which was expressed, we did this between the Ukrainian Parliament, the European Parliament there, and we did it with great joy and externalities, while we also knew that there was a great deal of trust that had been advanced in many respects, because Ukraine had not done a lot of things until then, and, as we can see, it still hasn't done a lot here, so in this case there is some optimism. [[19.30]] I now quote from the bill:. The Parties shall take all necessary general or concrete measures necessary to fulfil the obligations arising out of this Agreement and shall refrain from any measure which could jeopardise..... And one more thing:. The full implementation and application by Ukraine of all the provisions and conditions arising from this Agreement shall be carried out over two transitional periods. During this I assume that this is necessary because after the first completion comes the next step. I therefore hope that, in this case, this is not an advanced trust in these services, but that we can achieve this on the part of the Ukrainian party. By the way, we obviously support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-152	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-09-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, How optimistic we are about this relationship also shows that I, as a banned person, will support the expansion of air transport. I hope that we will get to the point that these things will be settled, and that we will be able to travel to Kiev or even to other settlements in Ukraine by settling this relationship. We're interested in partnership. Everyone can recall that Hungary has supported the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement as one of the first, and Hungary has supported Ukraine's visa waiver application to the European Union as one of the first, so we have done not only gestures on several occasions, but also serious steps to allow Ukraine's European approach. Obviously, one of the major drivers of this is the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia, who has suffered a number of insults, many disadvantages, and narrowing of rights in recent years. We hope that relations should not be normalised by bans, threats, not by different means, but by mutual respect, minority rights will not be reduced, but increased to normalise dialogue and take Ukraine's approach and partnership more seriously towards the European Union. This is the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace, which has been discussed here by the Secretary of State and my fellow Members, which is what the bill before us is about, which is not too long, and we must declare it. This market opening will be reciprocal in terms of access to routes and capacities, a gradual market opening, and not only the European Union will expand its capacities, but also Ukraine; ensuring regulatory convergence, the effective application of EU requirements and standards by Ukraine, and ensuring non-discrimination and a level playing field for economic operators. We can talk here about a major aviation market, which has really grown in recent years, as in 2005 it was a 1.8 million passenger traffic between the EU and Ukraine, but already in 2019 it was 7.6 million, so we can see a dynamic increase in the last 15 years, which means passenger traffic between the European Union and Ukraine's various airports. This agreement is also beneficial for Hungarian air transport, as it will allow you to travel from a new Ukrainian settlement to Budapest, as well as to expand the frequency on the Budapest-Kiev route. The application of this agreement also facilitates administrative burdens for Hungary and airlines and simplifies the acquisition of Ukrainian permits and the reduction of bureaucracy there. In the context of the negotiations in the Council of the European Union, Hungary strongly supported the signing and making possible the provisional application of this agreement as soon as possible. Therefore, on the basis of the reasons stated and with the reservations expressed by both Mrs Balczó and by Mr Balczó, this should be another gesture that the Hungarian Parliament unanimously accepts the announcement of this agreement on the common airspace; this should also be another message to the Ukrainian party that we are interested in a peaceful neighbourly relationship with both parties, I stress, both parties. We are also prepared to vote in favour of this and many other decisions supporting Ukraine, but in return we ask that the rights of the Hungarian minority there should not be limited but expanded and that a normal neighbourly relationship should develop. So in this spirit, we will support the current bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-154	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Lóránt Keresztes László, leader of the LMP group, who presents the opinion of his group. Here you go.
u2021-11-09-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think it's rare to make a proposal where we can agree on almost everything that's said. Congressman Nacsa concluded that it would be good to send another positive gesture to Ukraine by unanimously accepting the ratification of this international treaty by the Hungarian Parliament. I can say that the LMP fraction is a partner in this, of course we are voting in favour of this, and we also believe that it is important not only to take all such symbolic steps, but in itself, what is behind this, this international treaty, this approach, the strengthening of relations is definitely positive. We hope that this too can be a kind of impulse towards Ukraine, that it really calls for a partnership and for negotiations to be made possible as a first step. Indeed, we as well as I personally have repeatedly explained in the European political scene, in domestic politics, that the process of education and language law that is visible here in Ukraine is unacceptable. In general, these are the outbursts against national minorities, and the Hungarians in Transcarpathia are also suffering from this, I do not think they are compatible with the European Union's core values. Accordingly, while I was on the Committee of the Regions and a few years ago, when the European Union was preparing for the Eastern Partnership Summit, I tabled a gross amendment in the language of diplomacy: the Committee of the Regions proposes that the European Union expect Ukraine to respect the right of national minorities to be taught in their mother tongue. It went through the Committee of the Regions at a considerable cost, and the proposal went on and ended up in the final declaration of the Eastern Partnership Summit. I think that this was also an important step, and we have been able to bring this amendment through through cooperation that goes beyond party policy. I can say that on this issue, i.e. the guarantee of the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, we also fully support the toughest steps the Hungarian government can take, so we will always, at every forum, stress that we will support these important steps and approaches, let us say, the toughest Hungarian position on NATO's various manifestations and meetings. I think that all the hard tools and all the possible means must be taken in order to protect the rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians. I think it is also in the interest of the Ukrainian party to see that Hungary has a partnership, and it is in no way good for Ukraine to have a harmful policy, whose sufferers are primarily Hungarians in Transcarpathia. So I repeat that the LMP faction will support this proposal and all other efforts. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-156	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see any other speakers, but I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No one has come forward, the general debate is closed. I will ask the national secretary of state how he wishes to react. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-157	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the honourable groups for this supportive attitude. Indeed, we have to assume that this unblessed state, which is now between Hungary and Ukraine, is not due to the Hungarian party's fault, will soon cease, and then economic and social relations can normalize. This requires normal air transport from distances, but the conditions for this can be created. We continue to strive to build cross-border roads in Ukraine and to operate them in compliance with the expected human standards. In rail transport, too, we would like to see an increasing volume of goods coming from the east by train to Hungary, so that we can at least raise the level of rail transport in the East-Hungarian region. Thank you very much for your support. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-11-09-158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend the laws on specific training and employment until closure. The government referral is T/17440. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will address Sándor Bodó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, who is the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[19.40]]
u2021-11-09-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Indeed, as Mr President has very precisely said, the general debate on the bill amending the laws concerning certain training and employment is before the House today, and the most important in this regard. The bill before you, together with the amendments to employment policy, higher education, vocational training and adult education, serves to achieve Hungary's strategic objectives, strengthen its competitiveness and sustainable growth in its economy. I think that these sentences, this goal, are already decisive in itself, and it is driving us all towards action. But let's see what's in the details. The amendment of certain legislation in the field of higher education aims at creating cohesion and implementing the necessary legislative amendments in the course of the change of model, whose primary objective is to clarify the legal environment. The amendment of the Law on the status of civil servants also provides for a more flexible remuneration in public higher education institutions. Among the technical amendments to the National Higher Education Act, it should be pointed out that the best students will have the opportunity to participate in doctoral training during the last year of their Master's degree. The regulation of part-knowledge training will also be more flexible, as some higher education modules and courses will be available to anyone. For foreign students, our medical higher education will become more attractive by allowing those who have received general medical training to complete the complex exam of doctoral education to do so on their own. Such training shall be carried out in parallel with general medical studies and the graduate shall be entitled to use a doctoral title referring to the field of training abroad. The National Higher Education Act also sets out the name change of the University of Physical Education, after which the name of the institution will be the Hungarian University of Physical Education and Sports Sciences. The amendment of the Act on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas provides for a reduction of the procedural deadline to 30 days, thus helping the economy and the country to operate more efficiently and competitively. Ladies and gentlemen, The new VET system launched from 1 September 2020 is successful and the government's VET strategy is in place. This is clearly reflected in the constantly increasing vocational education and training data. The changes thus brought positive benefits for students, educators, companies and parents. With the changes introduced, the vocational training system has become simplified, transparent and interoperable. Today, all students who are involved in the training of new basic professions receive a vocational training scholarship. On average, the wages of professionals in vocational training increased by 30 percent and new opportunities for dual training were also opened. The aim of the bill in the field of vocational training is to further strengthen the system of new types of vocational training. It improves the system of professional training based on programme requirements by bringing into the framework of an official procedure the registration of programme requirements. This will make more professionally sound training more appropriate to real economic needs. The amendment clarifies the relevant data circuits and the deadline for reporting in order to ensure the correct and accurate reporting of vocational training contracts. Changing the rules on training credit can help to foster continuous further learning. This could further increase the number of participants in vocational training. The adoption of the bill before you will help ensure that the system of renewed vocational training continues to provide high-quality and accessible tools for a wide range of society to meet the challenges of a constantly changing economic environment, and will obviously help those who want to adapt to it. Dear Parliament, The draft before you also includes amendments to adult education. One of the most important of these is the tightening of the sanctions applicable to the control of training from State resources, which are needed to avoid misuse of State aid. Thus, it will be possible to prohibit the pursuit of an adult training activity without warning in cases where the adult training course is subject to State aid for the conduct of the training, or where the trainees may apply for training loans. A more stringent penalty may be applied where the training has appeared to have been carried out by the adult training instructor on the basis of data provided to the reporting system for adult training, but cannot be demonstrated during the on-the-spot check by presenting the documentation required by law. In order to ensure the legitimate use of State aid in line with the objectives of the aid, the amendment allows the immediate withdrawal of the adult training licence in that case, the immediate deletion of the adult training licence from the register, the prohibition of the pursuit of adult training activities for two years and the imposition of administrative fines. The amendment raises the most important conditions for the use of training credit to a legal level and also changes the conditions for the registration of adult training experts. Under the latter rules, adult training experts are already required to carry out compulsory training and to pass an effective examination for registration. Those who are on the register on 1 January 2022 and who have not yet fulfilled their continuing training obligation, will be able to do so by the end of the next period of training due. Dear Parliament, Higher education, vocational training and adult education do not exist for themselves, but serve the nation. It creates professionals with competitive knowledge who increase our country's economy, services, public tasks, health care and public education. With the adoption of the bill before you, it will be possible for the renewed high-quality system of higher education, vocational training and adult education to continue to provide adequate answers to the challenges of the ever-changing economic environment. I think that this bill is particularly topical for the few months behind us, when we have actually found that, coming out of nowhere, in a few days, there have been challenges on the labour market that only prepared professionals can respond to properly. Obviously, we should not have such challenges in our lives, but of course we cannot rule that out, so we really need to make all the minor or major changes to the law and the amendment of the rules in order to be able to respond to the economic challenges in all circumstances. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, with respect, to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-09-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Winner Vinnai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2021-11-09-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to state in advance that the T/17440. The Fidesz fraction, since Lőrinc Nacsa has left, has been consulted and will be supported by the KDNP fraction. These are very important amendments, as we have heard in Mr Secretary of State's exposé, which also concerns higher education, vocational training, adult education and, in a sense, employment in the context of EU harmonisation. But what is the content of the proposal? because we have heard the substance of the amendment from the Secretary of State. One, as regards higher education, was the publication in 2016 of a strategic material entitled . Change of degrees in higher education, adopted by the government and then published an action plan a year later, and these two represent the strategy of higher education, the essence of which is that Hungarian university education myself has been competitive in college and university for nearly 40 years, in order to give students, university students, skills that they can cope with in the labour market. The aim is to strengthen competitiveness, to create open higher education for the needs of the economy, to create higher education working with companies and companies, and to define quality and performance principles. [[19.50]] This is also served by the change of model, from 1 July 2019 until 1 September 2021 21 universities entered this path, and I do not think it is necessary to stress that the change of model gave me the opportunity to develop at university, the Senate decided on this, they asked for it themselves, they decided, started with the University of Corvinus and ended with the University of Pannonia. One of the points of the amendment, as the Secretary of State said, concerns higher education at 9 points, and we have heard that the year XXXIII on the status of civil servants. it amends the law and the law on national higher education. I would only like to highlight one, since the Secretary of State has made his point. For example, a public education institution operating independently and managing outside the organisation of a higher education institution may be fully available to the higher education institution. There are professionals here, so I think this word, that training schools, training schools, have a known content in this circle. I think that the future of higher education in Hungary is also the future of the country, because the more educated people there are, and the more suitable young generations with useful knowledge perform universities, the better the goal for Hungary is to have higher added value in the labour market. It is also shown that education improves employment, as according to all statements, surveys and statistics, people who have a degree or a qualification can get better jobs on the labour market. I would just like to give you an example: I came from a constituency I recently saw the labour market statistics of one of my districts, the district of Tisavasvár, employment, where you can see that more than 80 percent of job seekers in the labour market have only 8 generals or not. This is why education is very important and these amendments are important. If I can get to vocational training, it's a real success story, as Mr. Secretary said. I was also involved in the presentation of vocational training, vocational training 4.0, a new strategy and concept, and then we apply this new type of vocational training in the system going up from the 2020-21 academic year, and now the amendment means fine-tuning. If I can tell you that the essence of vocational training is that we have introduced new professions and a new training system from 2020, in which, perhaps, I can say this, shortages are emerging, although almost all of them are missing, which is included in the training list, but in fact vocational training has started to meet the needs of the economy. We also provided 30 percent increase in wages for teachers and trainers in the new vocational training system. There's no shortage of instructors, there's a 10 percent increase in admissions. In fact, in the spring of 2021, I have in my head the proportion of students applying to vocational schools and high schools, because of course it is very important that they apply to high schools and then go to universities 34 percent of the students applied to high schools and 41 percent to technicians and vocational schools. This means that there has been an increase in the premiums of vocational training institutions, because the importance of acquiring a profession has been assessed. Not to mention that the scholarships also appeared with the students who applied here. We know it's very important for families to get a scholarship. In fact, in dual training, people in vocational training are also paid by contract of employment. In fact, I might add one sentence: students who pass a successful professional exam will also receive a one-time start-up allowance. This is an opportunity to catch up, and the new vocational training law also includes the need to reduce early school leaving; I am also doing a little research in this area. We still have work to do here, but this is a new opportunity to catch up in vocational training. The Secretary of State spoke about adult education and adult education, saying that the use of state resources is being monitored more closely, he spoke about the content of adult education, the administrative procedures, the introduction of a data reporting system that is transparent and works well. As far as employment is concerned, I may mention two thoughts. One is the renewed European Social Fund Plus, a new EU option to support Member States in achieving high employment levels and fair social protection. I think Hungary should not be ashamed of employment indicators, as employment has increased significantly in Hungary over the last 10 to 11 years. As I understand it, Mr State Secretary, there are about 4 million 704 thousand people working, although this may be statistics from a week ago, but there are over 4 million 700 000 people working in Hungary today, and this is one of the highest in the European Union, or at least in the first trimester, as far as employment is concerned. To conclude, I would like to say once again that we are in favour of amending the laws on specific training and employment. In my opinion, this is a very important law, which, in everyday life, means the transformation of higher education, the fine-tuning of vocational training, the control of adult education, all of which will increase skills and thus promote employment. So I also urge my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-162	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Balázs Ander, who will present the opinion of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-09-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Vinnai, thank you very much for your encouragement, but I am quite sure that we do not know this bill. A real salad. But we weren't surprised to see them using such tools. There are a lot of lovable things in this, too. I will also list a few of these, showing that we are trying constructively to do so, but they will only smuggle elements in order to which we can simply say that it is outrageous and that we will not accept it. Well, Mr Secretary of State has also spoken about the recognition of foreign diplomas in Hungary or the small reform of medical education, which we can say are elements of this bill that must be fully supported, or such is the training loan, which can be one of the key elements of lifelong learning, and thus a second chance. I myself taught in a vocational high school where we trained adults, and, where appropriate, this training loan could be very useful for people who are in need of it. So there are elements to support this bill. If you are talking about strengthening the relationship between higher education and vocational training, this is also a proposal to be accepted, because it is rational because it is in the interests of the country. When we are talking about dual training, and here in the bill, perhaps by example, what they are thinking about, say, making the relationship between medical training and the higher education institution better, normalising this bill, we can also say that we can support this on the part of the Jobbik faction. Otherwise, it would be fair for you to treat these elements separately from what we cannot agree to. Secretary of State, since we were talking about vocational training, let me give you an example from my constituency once we're here and there's a competent secretary of state. [[20.00]] I heard what our colleague, Győző Vinnai, said, so this is 34:41 percent, so that vocational training has become more popular than traditional high school training in Hungary. If this is to be achieved through organic development, then we can say yes, so be it. However, if this is forced out of individual communities, such as Nagyatád, or as they would like it to happen, they would practically grind up the high school education there, which has been a great prestige in the city since 1953, not only among the settlement, the walking chair, but also among the population of the surrounding villages and communities, if the municipality could unanimously support this in its decision-making proposal a few days ago, regardless of the party position, then I believe that the only thing you can do at this time is to hear, listen to this demand, and to fulfill the wishes of parents, teachers and students, to allow Nagyatád, the Ady Endre High School, and now in a vocational high school, traditional high school to remain. This is the message I would like to convey to you during the debate on this bill, Mr Secretary of State. Please listen to them, and I would like to underline once again, regardless of party status. So the Fidesz local government representatives also stood up for high school education in the settlement. Now, Mr Secretary of State, if we look further at the edible, edible and digestible parts of the salad, then we can say that the part about adult education also contains such an amendment to be supported. After all, it is quite clear that this sector cannot be delivered to them, and obviously it is always respectful of the exception, but there have been anomalies when certain training companies have basically specialized in pulling down the Hungarian state and using the resources they have received in an abusive manner. In other words, no training was actually carried out, and the labour market relevance of these trainings should be increased if we are to meet ideas such as the new challenges posed by industry 4.0 or digitalisation. If we take into account the enormous role that adult education can play in integrating disadvantaged layers in creating social cohesion, then again I can say that it is absolutely natural for Jobbik, as a modern, national, conservative people's party, to support these proposals, because it is important to maintain and increase the country's competitiveness, sustainable development. And if we take Eurostat data here, according to which, say, Sweden and Finland, the adult population there, at least 25-30 percent of the 25-64-year-old generation, is participating in adult education, the EU average is slightly above 9 percent, and in this region, according to a Eurostat survey, Slovenia is leading by about 7.5 percent, and Romania is locating at the end with its own 1 percent indicator, so that is why we have to develop. And since we have room for improvement, we can accept these improvements. Mr State Secretary, you have spoken, and our fellow Member from Vinna has also said here, let us say, about the economic challenges posed by the pandemic that need to be answered, a working response must also be given to such legislative amendments. This salad includes the 1991 IV. on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits. amendment of the law. That is not what I intend to do here, because we can also support this, but I would like to draw your attention to a hair-scarring fact that the narrowest unemployment benefit system in Europe is in Hungary. And we can blink and boast about it, because why not the level of employment in Hungary compared to some other countries, but then not only that, but also that, let's say, the average level of income is at 43 percent of the EU level. And if I think of my narrower Patriots, Somogyland, the southern part of it, then we there, in those districts, Barcsi, Nagyatádi or Csurgo district reach only 75 percent of the national level. If you think about it, and if you think about how 120 750 forints has been maximized and job search or unemployment benefits are only paid for three months, then I have to ask you, if you prefer, how much can this government, which calls itself a right-wing Christian, be able to meet, say, XIII. The principles laid down by Pope Leo in the Rerum novarum in 1891. 'Cause we don't think so. So you're the one who brought up the pandemic situation here with Vinnai's fellow Member. When we have seen it, thousands of families are in an extremely difficult situation, and when, let's say, debt piles up, it is easy to lose the home, especially if you do not do much to curb the excesses of your executives. So that's why we suggested that people in such difficult situations shouldn't be left on the side of the road, shouldn't be kicked into the ditch, but should be raised for nine months. You may bring up national numbers here, but then I would like to refer you back to the area where I came from, this is a more shadowy part of the country, and it happens that from Vízvár this 500 small settlements in South Somogy have to commute to Zalaegerszeg, which is 110 kilometers away to work for that small wage next to the assembly line of one of the major plants, and can even support your family. And if we take these fates into account, then, Mr Secretary, yes, we should do so, and it would be good for you to follow the proposals made by Jobbik. Then the XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants The amendment of the law, which makes it possible by regulation to establish an excess salary, is perfectly okay to create the background of this 15 plus 15 per cent increase in public higher education institutions. Well, let's just go back to the basics of where we're going from. When, according to a recent Facebook post, you must have met him at one of the supermarkets offering 473 thousand forints of rent to the storekeeper and the vendor. How much does a teaching assistant take home in Hungary? A net of 155 thousand forints? How will this become competitive? You've been talking all along about what we can agree with, but this is misery, this is the drive away of young researchers from this country! And if it is already a civil servant status, it should also be taken into account that since 2008, the civil servant pay table has in fact remained unchanged. In practice, they keep the IMF pact in place, so it's a waste of time to do this because that's what you're actually doing in practice. There is an existential threat for public servants in Hungary, and a cunning fear is administered between them, not by accident, and this feudalism, in many cases put into communism, will certainly have its effect. We also say that we should create a fair and livable Hungary, otherwise, if I say it again about civil servants, then it is in a party-neutral way. Mr State Secretary, I would like to return a little further, say, to the situation of young teachers and teachers in Hungary at all. [[20.10]] I'd like to bring you a Romanian comparison. My excellent fellow Member Brenner held a press conference a few days ago where he raised the monthly salary of EUR 600 in Hungary with the example of these young teachers in Romania, where they are looking for one and a half times that. Now, we know that your anti-knowledge and intellectual policy is indeed the great enemy of prosperity and freedom, and it would be good to heed the words of Magdolna Csath, who said that budgetary rigour should not affect the field of education and pay attention, Mr Secretary of State: a new model in Klebelsberg would be needed to support the modernisation of the economic structure. The one you were talking about. And once again, we can fully support it, but under such conditions you not only drive away teachers from public education, but it is also the case that they discourage these young researchers from being in Hungary, because one hundred and fifty-something thousand, 160 thousand forints monthly wages cannot be paid. And what is it that we can't support then? The 15 plus 15 percent increase is perfectly natural for us to support it. But in ten cases, you refer to ten laws concerning this salad proposal, such as the KEKVAs, public-service trust funds, and if we were unable to accept this at the time, and the opposition did not turn to the Constitutional Court by accident, because you have more than 1,700 properties worth a thousand billion, ports, resorts, castles, and could be classified, stock packages were handed over to, well, to whom and why? We said it was a large-scale robbery privatization, actually, to build a parallel fidesz mini-state, because you might be preparing for the fall of 22 and, yes, the fortune must be saved so that the network can continue to be fed. And as I refer once again to my colleague Brenner, who said that Hungary's state form had become a foundation, headed by the chief curator, Viktor Orbán himself. Well, that's what we're not asking for, that's what we have to say no to, which is why this salad proposal is unacceptable to us. They put universities under political control, and they didn't save their party soldiers from curators. What is the purpose of this? The fact that the hundreds of billions of potential arrivals in the EU are destined for the development of higher education in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm sure you'll be able to get it to your friends' companies if you need it. That's what's unacceptable. [[The president's ringing again.]] The rest of me listed a lot, showing once again our constructivity was unacceptable. Thank you.
u2021-11-09-164	Thank you. Our next lead speaker is Lóránt Keresztes, who presented the opinion of his group as the leader of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-11-09-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member, Balázs Ander, has given a very well-founded and good criticism of the bill, this salad law. I do not wish to repeat his thoughts, but I would certainly like to respond to the thoughts of the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr Vinnai, notary. Here he repeated the propaganda that we have been hearing from a lot of places in the press for a very long time, here in Parliament and on all kinds of media. Let us be clear that this change of model was not a change of model, but an outsourcing and the introduction of Hungarian higher education, almost all Hungarian higher education, into political control. They managed to achieve this to such an extent that there were no state-owned higher education institutions left in the countryside, and there were five state universities left in Hungary. It was a lie, all of which you have justified. It was clear that in the last eleven years your higher education policy has been a complete failure, that they could not do anything to achieve so-called competitiveness, and then they decided that political governance and outsourcing could be the right instrument to fit into the course of your government decisions. But I can say that this is nothing more than an assassination of the future of young Hungarians and an assassination of rural areas. It was completely unfounded that development or competitiveness was linked in any way to this shameful process, since we can see that the best European universities are typically state-owned. So the efficiency of university operations, the implementation of improvements have nothing to do with the maintenance change or the maintenance person, if we're talking about a state, or just about the foundation reservation that you've implemented. But we can also tell you that the foundation outsourcing, the foundation restructuring, the maintenance change could have been done differently. There are good examples of this, too. We always said it was completely unnecessary, unwarranted, but it could have been done differently. You have practically ignored the signals, expectations or marginal conditions coming from the profession and sector, as the Senate of the University of Pécs said, which was really important for those involved. And by the way, Congressman Vinnai, I remember when we tabled these marginal conditions as a proposal at the committee meeting, and I specifically said that what the Senate of the University of Pécs asked for, you said that anyone who misses a model change would miss development resources. It was an open blackmail for universities, so they didn't actually get the development resources that you threatened and blackmailed universities with. There is a long list of what the university leadership bodies, the senates, have expected in connection with the structure of the curatorium, the recallability, the appointment of the curators, and at all what powers the Senate should have, what their say in the management of universities, the decisions on universities. We can say that the worst scenario is equality: the Fidesz scenario has been implemented. Technically, the Boards can take all the powers, take all the decisions, including the definition of university budgets. And indeed, I think it is at least daunting that you talk about competitiveness by ruling for 11 years, and, indeed, the salary of a university assistant with a doctoral degree is still gross HUF 185 thousand. You've been talking about twice 15 percent for months, maybe longer. Of course, we're happy with every raise, but the problem is that even 15 percent of it didn't happen once. So most colleges didn't get a one-time pay supplement, let alone a wage increase, by promising the second one by the beginning of next year. But I'm getting signals from a lot of universities that they haven't received it yet, and there are signals from certain institutions, typically in rural higher education, that I would already impose conditions on them twice as much as you promised, and, where appropriate, apply it to teachers, but in the case of those working in other university positions, it would not be automatic or it would be late. I think that your higher education policy can be said in any case that there is now a government minister who makes eighteen times as much money in a month as a university assistant with a doctorate degree. You are completely ignoring knowledge, ignoring the university sphere, ignoring the research sphere, and actually pursuing an anti-science and anti-university policy for a very, very long time. And, by the way, the situation is even worse, because we know exactly what role the major rural universities, the major rural universities, have in the economic life of the region, not only in the life of the cities that are home to them, but also in the impact on all regions, counties and regions. Once again, I'd like to give an example to the University of Pécs. Pécs is the largest city in Transdanubia, but the budget of the University of Pécs is double as it is the budget of the city of Pécs County. And we can also say that not only the city, not only the city of Pécs, not only the county of Baranya, but one of the largest employers of the entire region is the University of Pécs. So it is quite clear that the development of Pécs, Baranya and the South Transdanubian region, its future is linked to the future of the University of Pécs, and you have outsourced the University of Pécs with a feather stroke. The Curatorium looks to have two former Fidesz Vice Mayors in the Curatorium, a current prime minister and Secretary of State Bódis himself, Secretary of State for Higher Education of the Fidesz Government, President of the Curatorium of the University of Pécs. And I repeat, what has been said by Congressman Ander. Practically a feudal model has been implemented, the founder's right has been handed over, and in this way, according to your intention, this fidesz grémium will be managed forever with this annual university with a budget of about 110 billion, without the wage increase being realised, the development has not been realized, and the entire huge property that belonged to the Hungarian people, you have moved it under the control of this Fidesz board. This is a disgrace, and it is totally unacceptable, and I can tell you that whatever your intentions led you to, one of the most important and first measures of the new government that will emerge after the elections next year will be to restore university autonomy, as this is in line with the interests of Hungarian young people, and this will provide Hungary with the right future. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-166	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member who has applied may speak, so I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik.
u2021-11-09-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the main strengths of the law currently under discussion, which is to be sold as a government success, is twice a 15% wage increase for higher education workers. [[20.20]] If this twice a 15% increase is achieved, then we will get to the point that in Hungary the average monthly wage of a career-starting instructor and researcher will probably reach the average monthly wage of a fast food restaurant. Wow. Congratulations. Secretary of State, is this what competitive salary looks like to you? Is this what investing in knowledge, into the future looks like? Is this what the state training of a multitude of educated heads looks like? 'Cause then something really bad, really slipped. This increase of 15 per cent will not help us appreciate higher education workers, teachers, researchers, but this will be necessary to ensure that this 20 per cent increase, when the workers will receive the guaranteed minimum wage, does not exceed the employees of higher education and public education; that the shameful, shameful situation in Hungary, who works as teachers in public education or higher education, and who devotes his life to it, should not come up with less money than a warehousekeeper. We may be able to achieve that. This, I think, is completely absurd. It is absurd that today, in Hungary, it is not the average salary for physical work, but the guaranteed minimum wage will be equal to teaching in higher education. I would very much like to say that this is not against those who are doing physical work, and it is not demeaning or underappreciating the work of those who are doing physical work. Let me tell you that I come from a family, a family of peacemakers with basically peasant roots, where almost all my ancestors have done hard physical work, and where hard physical work has its honor and respect. It is not that the work of these people should not be appreciated, should not be compensated financially, but that in Hungary there has been a situation where our parents and the generation of our grandparents, who had worked before, had their children trained, my parents had me trained, I could be a first-generation graduate in the family, so that I could go further in life, so that I could have a good salary for millions of Hungarian parents, this is not a perspective. Social mobility has lost its meaning. Today, in Hungary, parents' children should not be persuaded to take an intellectual career, where to go as teachers, but to talk them out of it. Today in Hungary, a family of teachers must talk their children out of it, if they merely look at how they can prevail in life, so that you don't choose the teaching career by chance, son, because how you're going to make a living, go to being a mason, then you can earn twice or three times as much. And not the masons make a lot of money, but the ones on the other side, they make a little. It's absurd. It's completely unacceptable. Right now, if you're looking for an outburst, you're gonna have to go to McDonald's or Aldi's cashier's job instead of the teacher's track, and maybe you can make a better living. Would that be, my dear... would I speak to you if you were in this Chamber a large number of my fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP, the civil Hungary you once dreamed of? Is this civil society? And now I can give you international examples. You are very fondly referring to illiberal democracies. I could give you the example of Singapore, perhaps a positive example of how economically successful an illiberal democracy can be, or I could mention, let's say, the example of South Korea, where there is basically a Meritocratic type of governance, but I don't run that far. And I don't even say Finland, but I mention, let's say, the example of the Baltic States or the V4s. For example, I have here the latest collection of the European University Institute, where you can see that there are two long diagrams, on these two long diagrams Hungary is one of the last in the line, this is the monthly gross salary of university teachers, and on the other, where the salary of the first-time instructors is the last. These two tails of red under the long and long lines, this is Hungary. [[He's showing it on the paper.]] Do you think that's normal? Even if this twice 15 percent increase is achieved, the very lucky situation will be that even so, even with the twice 15 percent increase, those working in higher education will not catch up with Romania. If there was a 50 percent increase, I'd be able to catch up with Latvia or Croatia. To catch up with the Czech Republic or Poland, we would need a 100 percent increase, not next year in two installments, but tomorrow morning. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán proudly refers to Poland in general as the flagship of the V4 countries, which Hungary deserves to follow. I would like to note now that in order to follow this flagship, we need a 100 percent wage increase in higher education. I would like to ask you, if Poland is the flagship, then in Hungary teachers, especially those working in higher education, have been discharged into the water on which lifeboat, because they are about there now. The thing is, I have said this many times, but I will say it every time, as long as such laws are introduced, as long as those working in Hungarian higher education want to spot their eyes twice by 15 percent and those working in public education by 10 percent, I will say that it is intolerable and intolerable that the service of the nation in Hungary is synonymous with the voluntary commitment of poverty. And anyone who treats his own intellectuals that way will cut down the tree, and you, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, will cut it with a chain saw, which is a motorcycling under the nation. It is also very talkative that on the day that this 10 percent increase was put into public education, the 20 percent guaranteed minimum wage was announced on the same day; it is estimated half as much. The current chasm, which stretches between those who do physical work and those who do spiritual work, teachers, teachers of the future generation, is not only trying to get closer to each other, but beating another wedge to break it even further. I'd like to ask you where this leads. Is there a prudent national strategy objective behind this, Mr. Secretary of State? If the goal of national strategy is to educate Western multinationals cheaply, well, disciplinedly, low added value workers, tape robots, then this is a perfect direction, especially if we bring in even cheaper two-handed workers from Ukraine, Vietnam, this is the perfect direction. I also hear a lot about why so many graduates in this country, too many graduates, need two-handed workers, need professionals, not graduate unemployed. I would just like to ask who will train these professionals, who will teach them mathematics, physics, chemistry, when teachers are on the run, with a record high percentage of career leavers; when the number of teaching posts in Hungary is currently recordless; when the physical education teacher has to teach chemistry classes slowly, because there is no one to teach chemistry, physics, mathematics. Who's gonna train these two-handed professionals, skilled workers? Or what kind of skilled workers will they become, Mr. Secretary? 'Cause if we're gonna get stick-making helpers and strippers, that's a good direction, but I'm guessing you didn't mean that when you talked about competitive knowledge and a competitive line of skilled workers. I'm not missing this, because I was accused the other day of criticizing why I didn't train the highest intelligence in this country, and I'm not saying that I have sleepless nights where I'm gonna have 500 new religious philosophers in this country, but those skilled workers, the craftsmen you're watering, will be trained. Minister Katalin Novak said that the economic situation does not allow a substantial, large-scale wage increase to take place. [[20.30]] Interestingly, I did not hear this aspect when it came to paying a 13th month pension two months before the elections, or paying a pension premium, or the unspeakable money-taking that was done during the coronal virus epidemic, and for those hundred billion who simply went out of the state register weekly, I somehow did not hear this aspect, that the economic situation does not allow it. And the thing is, when you refer to it as an extremely false reason, it is true that when the economy is strong, then there will be money for education. The situation is exactly the opposite: there will be a good and strong economy if there is money for education. The foundation of general well-being is when everyone in the country, from the assistant worker to the office worker to the top of the pensioner, when everyone lives well, is based on the strong middle class, and the strong middle class is based on the self-conscious and self-serving intellectuals. The anti-intellectual atmosphere that's going on in this country is quite amazing, because that's exactly the prerequisite for everyone to live better once in a while. Vane is, or rather I ask the other way around, Mr. Secretary: is there a country in the world where this was reversed, where everyone lived well, where the economy was very good, where everyone was very good, and in the end, at the end of the line, after everyone was good, did teachers also receive money? Well, I don't know a country like this. This model, which you are pushing for, the Hungarian model has not been successful in any country, nor has it been found anywhere in the illiberal Far Eastern countries, nor in the Scandinavian countries, nor in the V4 countries. Everywhere, in every country, they invested first in education, research, development, and this drew the whole economy, and then the welfare of everyone grew, which was the engine of the economy. The fact is that today universities in Hungary are not giving rise to an outbreak of poverty, but are preserving this poverty. If one does not have rich parents, there is no strong parental background behind it, then there will be deprivation, voluntary poverty; there will remain scholarships that have lost their purchasing value; there will remain social subsidies that are virtually incomprehensible in the current inflation conditions; there will remain colleges, Mr State Secretary, 85 percent of which, according to your own government decree in 2017, do not meet the minimum requirements and do not meet the minimum conditions set by you, and these state-built colleges are hardly fit for housing. Or those who miss this will be the ones where rent prices have increased by one and a half times in rural areas in recent years, and here in Budapest more than double. And anyone who can't get or pay for expensive apartments is left with a mama hotel, can stay a burden on their parents' necks, have no credit, the inability to get a decent loan at all, to buy any apartment. That's your perspective. And our perspective, the perspective of the Civil Reply Movement, on the other hand, is the civil Hungary that you have denied, which is based on the strong middle class, which is based on the self-conscious, self-interesting middle class, which is based on the practice of the last thirty years, which has always kept this intellectual layer in bondage, or has tried to make it a political instrument in your current political interests, which appreciates, values their knowledge, values their diligence, values their commitment, values it financially, appreciates it at the social level, and which creates a country where everyone can finally manage and rotate it back into the community in accordance with their own knowledge and diligence, so that at the end everyone can be good. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2021-11-09-168	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to respond. [[Sándor Bodó: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-09-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your opinions, and I think that there have been a number of things in them that are certainly worth thinking about. They obviously have some political resolutions that, frankly, did not surprise me too much. But maybe we should go into the details a little bit. The fact that competitive knowledge is essential, I believe that no one in this Chamber disputes it, and that we need to take some kind of measures and a system of measures to this end, I do not think that it should be discussed again. Of course, we can always think that if we don't do anything, we leave everything like this, then something will change on its own, but we certainly won't, so then we have to take a road that breaks off with previous traditions, breaks off with the methodology used so far, breaks with comfort, and, as with all new things, of course, a uncertainty arises in one's mind, whether it will succeed, whether it will be good, whether it will result. That quality and performance should go hand in hand, believe me, fellow Members, from the practical example of the day, I can justify a number of signs. When we talk to employers' representatives, they say they hit quite different strings, the players of the Hungarian economy, when they sit at the same table even in the context of wage negotiations, hit quite different strings. You can see that in order for Hungarian GDP to be as high as we are looking for, we need to take very firm and firm measures, and these measures, if I may put it this way, may hesitate between two models if someone does not get deeper in this. One is obviously about what you have said here, too, that we should give as much support as possible, if we fail to find a job, there should be a long chance to think about what will happen to me; the other is that it should not happen to you, because it is not good for anyone, but also for the employee in person, because there has been an example in the crisis or even the company, which is now, in the present days, an ongoing programme, so that he should receive government attention and not only attention, but also financial support in order to be able to work. When my fellow Members here have rightly acknowledged that Hungarian employment figures are in the forefront with one of Europe's best indicators, there are indeed minimal differences in fourth to fifth and sixth places, while, let us say, the Italian or Spanish unemployment rate is double to three times our own, then it is decided that the right way is to work for job preservation, job retention and job creation and job creation, and we have to take a lot of aspects into account in this work. One is obviously knowledge, the effectiveness of knowledge. Hours could be talked about how the knowledge that we now consider such an eternal and unbreakable unity with the daily practical example can be applied. We also have a long discussion about, for example, the wage increases that we have all acknowledged in this Chamber, whether we consider it necessary in relation to the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, what they are a burden for employers. One important aspect is that this amount is good, now, with government help, according to the rules of the market, companies should produce more efficiency; they do not know that yet, so we need government help, and this government assistance is obviously present. And when we say what are the main drivers of the economy, obviously the future of vocational training, the skilled workers, the highly qualified skilled workers, because here I am not... surely we are not reading the lines in the same way, but here we should not think about, say, twenty-thirty-forty years ago, when a vocational training was conducted, but a completely different methodology, a completely different methodology. What is needed is a completely different knowledge of material, a completely different knowledge of tools, a skilled worker today, whether he is an employee, but if he is an entrepreneur, he especially needs knowledge that his predecessors couldn't have thought of before, because he wasn't needed. So this area is much, much more complex than to say at first reading that the old one was better and what the innovations were for. They are therefore clearly present. What my colleague, Mr Ander Balázs, could very well support is the fact that vocational training and higher education are closer to each other, that is precisely the aim. [[20.40]] The exact aim would be not to have a special caste, a separate corridor, a separate dining room, a separate workplace, but to have these knowledge, these skills meet very closely. Today, there are countless companies that ask their highly qualified engineers to stand next to the work bench on certain days of a month and do the work that the factory worker has to do. And there are days when the skilled worker is asked not to start that tool today, but to try to make a little summation, to put together some theoretical knowledge of what our engineers should develop based on your practical experience. So this goes hand in hand. I really thank my fellow Member Vinnai for his contribution, which has obviously moved us in this direction, as well as for you who have taken the debate in this direction. That there may be problems with specific examples, I do not dispute it. What the congressman said in the case of Nagyatad, I myself experienced as an individual district representative. For example, there was a time at the Bishop's Lady High School when school users said that they did not want to enroll a student in this high school class. Parents said no. According to my information, that's what happened in Nagyatad, because they said that you're very welcome in the six-class class, and that's where the numbers are. In this situation, the congressman is right, it is not the right way to say that from now on, there will be no four-year-old high school class in Nagyatad, but the school board there, local decision-makers, the foundation, the former students of the high school have to start an enlightening, informative campaign that is really worth going to that high school. The demand of school users is a very big word. And believe me, fellow Members, but you obviously know that the school is in vain for its own sake. What's it gonna be? The school must obviously meet the needs of school users, who obviously start from the fact that they are children, parents, micro-communities, larger communities, whole settlements, cities and nations; they all have to be seen together. An opinion was also expressed on workplaces. I have just mentioned the two models to give aid or to put jobs on the flag. We chose the latter. Allow me, fellow Members, to say that this is not a Hungarian figure. Before they say that these employment or unemployment data have been manipulated here because of some sort of undersecretary's mischief, there is no such thing. It is precisely that all data are determined according to the European statistical procedure. So when we can say that 4 million 700 000 people are working in Hungary, it is determined according to European standards. We're not doing it. We'll get these data ready, too. When the statistics say 195 thousand in the unemployment rate, I protest with my hands and feet every time, because we know that based on tonight's data, we know the expert colleagues are sitting here that it's 245 thousand. So the Statistical Office's data is lower, the reality is really higher, about 40-50 thousand people. But these 245 thousand people are also lower than they were in the period before the crisis. That is, what you have complained about, so that you can spend more time at home, think about how you want a job, and the employers absolutely cannot agree with that, because today's data is that there are nearly 70-73 thousand vacancies in Hungary. It is welcome and useful to think about whether these jobs are in the right place now, I mean from the point of view of employers and workers. Probably not. Indeed, there are a number of parts of the country where there is a higher unemployment average and there is an increased need for these developments. And a number of job-creating programmes are worth extra points when applications are submitted from such an area. But I could also mention the temporary travel subsidies, housing allowances, work-in-campus construction programmes that were already in place. In other words, these programmes can all be interpreted in complex and collective terms. I must categorically reject the fact that the Hungarian government is anti-knowledge and intellectual, because it is absolutely not so, and it was not so during the period of the epidemic. This was not the case, because when our reduced wage support programme, called Kurzarbeit, was launched in the first wave of the epidemic, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology launched a separate chapter to protect highly qualified jobs in the field of research and development. Here we provided 320-330 thousand forints per month for six months in order to ensure that this knowledge is not lost anywhere, so that there is no inventive thing left in a desk drawer, no procedure left in pieces. So it is precisely so that these highly qualified Hungarian workers remain at home. In hindsight, it can be said that during that period, there was clearly a foreign intention to lure our professionals abroad. Therefore, R &amp; D I and R &amp; D II. Our programme was designed to keep this intellectual layer at home, and even the programme had an element that if employers recruited highly qualified workers in this situation, they could receive this amount separately. So the fact that we're anti-knowledge and intellectuals wasn't true during the epidemic, and obviously it's not true now. The provision of resources, increasing competitiveness, has already been discussed. I saw that the debate went towards the model changers. By the way, I can see from my notes that, for example, the Baja of Eötvös József College is a state and not among the model changers, so there is an example. But I also feel that that was not the point of this thought process. The board of trustees only received powers that had been with the state maintainer before, and didn't acquire something that was taken from someone else. Thus, the provisions on basic law university autonomy protect these institutions. Of course, everyone is more aware of the area or loves it more than anyone else. Obviously, there are also guarantees in the Higher Education Act on education and the independence of research, and they could not be undermined now. The model changers received the necessary funds, and in most places they paid the increased amounts from September onwards. I do not dispute that there may be a place where this has not yet happened, but I will certainly ask the competent State Secretary to consider this, obviously, to be a burden, or I do not know what the reason is. I would also like to thank the Member for bringing this up during this evening. We still need to see that model changers are not tied to a pay sign. Obviously, even now, when the first steps are taken towards the pay of competitive wages, I think it would be unfair for them to immediately say how untalented they are, how they do not manage, how they do not live in market conditions. However, there is already an example in the first days, the first weeks or months that Hungarian teachers working abroad have returned. It's obviously a welcome thing. When I took the Hungarian professions out of his words well, and he said that, yes, of course, of course, but still, well, if he watched the competition of European professions in the last few weeks, he could see that there were Hungarians studying higher education, too, I think that this competition was in Switzerland or Luxembourg, who performed outstanding performance, maybe they did 5 or 6. I think that in many areas we would raise our hats at a European 5-6 place. The fact that the technicians are present, I think, is intended to ensure that again, but perhaps we agreed that vocational training and higher education are closer together. Believe me, my fellow Members, this is the need for the labour market, and you will expect it from the actors. Here in Parliament, we can say anything, perhaps the opposite, that will not convince them. They are convinced by real performance that companies must be so intensive, efficient and equipped with all knowledge, but also have practical experience to compete in international competition. I think that's obviously the purpose of all of us in an indirect way. [[20.50]] I must say, therefore, that, from vocational training to employment, all the measures that have been taken over the past period, and obviously there are some legislative requirements that we have already met, which are justified, which will help the Hungarian economy to achieve this way, the employment indicators will develop in this way. That this is still possible, there probably won't be a debate between us either, because perhaps it was a classic saying that football, pedagogy, vocational training, the labour market, I see more and more that everyone understands. But that's okay, it's basically not a problem at all, because it's obviously our common cause, and in order to do that, everyone's opinion really matters. However, I would ask you to consider this by listening to what has been said, perhaps by reading through the law again, who have not been able to support it, and to those who can support it, thank you for your revelation separately. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, Lóránt Keresztes has applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of our city, Pécs. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-11-09-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, in my speeches after the agenda, I am talking about the situation in my narrower country, and today I have to talk about a parliamentary decision that will have a very strong and negative impact on Pécs and Baranya County. Today, representatives of Fidesz and KDNP voted in favour of a bill that practically outsourced the National Atomic Energy Agency, outsourced the authority that has the authority to authorise and supervise nuclear power. We know that the counties of Pécs and Baranya are involved in so-called two dirty ends of nuclear power. This means mining uranium and the disposal of nuclear waste, i.e. the construction of a nuclear cemetery. We know that there are still plans for uranium mining, so there are actors who have not set off plans to return to uranium mining activities near Pécs and research into the site of the nuclear cemetery for the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste is ongoing. I think we can say that it is an obvious fact that decisions on nuclear energy can only be taken by ensuring full transparency and involving the population as widely as possible. This is contrary to government policy, to today's decision or to several previous amendments to the nuclear law. We have said many times that we do not consider nuclear energy to be a green, cheap or safe source of energy, and I think that anyone who knows the environmental devastating effects of former uranium mining in Hungary certainly does not say that nuclear energy is a green or clean energy source. We know that the former uranium mining activity has resulted in brutal environmental destruction, which, to date, requires a huge and extremely cost-intensive struggle. Tens of billions of forints had to be spent on water base protection and recultivation tasks, and this task will always be ahead of us, and this will never end. So we can say that uranium mining, the former uranium mining, caused irreparable damage. That is why it is unacceptable for us that some actors would like to open again a uranium mine that would operate under the inhabited area of Pécs. We also need to say that this would have no economic relevance to what it once was when it gave work to thousands of people, and uranium mining was a livelihood for thousands of families. Here a few hundred highly qualified, typically not Pécs or regional workers would be given the opportunity, but this uranium mining activity would be perfectly opposed to the strategy developed by consensus between Pécs and Baranya, thus ensuring sustainability. It would therefore cause enormous economic damage beyond the environmental risks alone. This bill adopted today, as well as the various amendments to the Mining Law and the amendment of the Nuclear Law, has once again an impact on the region's ability to avoid, and even the local authorities in the region's ability to go against, these plans. We can also say that the permanent disposal of high-activity nuclear waste and spent fuel has not been resolved anywhere in the world. This is also a challenge in Hungary, but it should also be noted that nowhere in the world there is an example that they want to build a nuclear cemetery as close to such a metropolitan agglomeration as this government plans 6-8 kilometers from the western borders of Pécs. We can conclude the debate that an area has the right to comment on this issue, since in 2015 Viktor Orbán personally said in Pécs that without the opinion of the people in Pécs and its region, despite our decision, there is no nuclear cemetery in the region. On the other hand, the Prime Minister's promise was immediately amended by the nuclear law, the possibility of the local governments in the region was taken away, so all legal options were taken away. Since then, the population of the region has not been asked to accept such a nuclear cemetery in the region. In 2019 the Municipality of the City of Pécs County protested against this in a resolution, and the municipality made it clear that neither the reopening of uranium mining nor a nuclear cemetery was accepted. This is completely contrary to the policy followed by the Fidesz-KDNP government, and the decision that has been made today, and in this way practically outsourced and placed under political control the authority responsible for the authorisation procedure of the nuclear cemetery. We say that a government that goes against the interests of an area and goes against the intentions of an area must fail, and I am quite certain that this government will fail next spring, and we will create a government that will guarantee that there will not be a nuclear cemetery a few kilometres from the western borders of Pécs. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-09-172	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I'm closing the meeting, wishing everyone a good rest.
