u2021-06-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 28th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I do my sad duty by announcing that Alajos Dornbach, former Vice President of Parliament, died in 85 years of his life. Alajos Dornbach became known as legal advisor to the democratic opposition before the regime change, then obtained his mandate in the first free parliamentary elections after the regime change, on the national list of SZDSZ, and for three cycles until 2002 he was a member of the Parliament. He served as Vice-President of the Parliament between 1990 and 1994. Under his mandate, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Freedom and Conflict of Interest and the City and Police and member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition to his national offices, he practiced as a lawyer until he retired, in which he represented a number of cases of national importance. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear House, Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor. [[13.10]]
u2021-06-07-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, On Saturday, the Andrássy Road was full of protesters, and Kossuth Square was full of us. This crowd with Gergely Karácsony, the mayor of Budapest, the candidate for Prime Minister of the MSZP-Pallore Association, wanted one: in Budapest, with Hungarian money, a student city should be built and not a Chinese university; in Budapest, the state should support the cheap housing of students, not the construction of a Chinese campus. This campus, unlike the majority of Chinese products, is not a small and not an Ócó, very not. According to the government's own calculations, it will cost approximately 540 billion forints. Allow me to illuminate the absurdity of all this with a metaphor in the social media. Which one of you would do it? ! , that he would build a house on his own property for me, so that: (1) they build it from my loan; (2) they complement it with their own money; (3) my company builds it with my workers; (4) in the end it will be mine; (5) last but not least, they will pay it back nicely, and with interest, the loan I gave for the construction? The end result: I'll have a house on your property with your money. Do you think that's okay? Because this is what they are about to do, but not with my house, but on a Hungarian property they want to build a Chinese university with the Hungarians' money. That's why we went out on the street. This mass demonstration didn't like the Chinese State Department, criticized the Democratic speakers of a legitimate protest. I do not want to interfere violently with the domestic affairs of the Hungarians, but I would like to say that the Hungarian State has asked for less. I ask you: is Hungarian freedom of speech worth as much as the Mayor of Budapest as a goalie coach? If so, at least the Chinese ambassador will be asked after the scandalous statement. But I ask you, what happened to you guys in the first place? You protested as a young Democrat over 30 years ago because of the massacres in Tienanmen Square, you were still young Democrats. How did they get to the point of wreathing the heroic monument of the Communists as an aging despot? How did you get here? ! In fact, you protect persecuted Christians in a more remote corner of the world, but you do not like the name of a street in Budapest from an imprisoned, imprisoned Chinese Catholic bishop. In fact, if the Holy Father visits Budapest, they would like to meet him, of course, but if the Pope's position doesn't please you, you don't think he's a Holy Father, he's just a demented old man. How's that? And then, of course, they wonder if he doesn't want to meet you. A few years ago, Viktor Orbán said that a country can be conquered with either a sword or a debt. What do you think now when you take loans from Russia and China without a neck? The demonstration had already had an effect, it is true that for now this has been shown in a mess of speech. Minister Gulyás has shown indulgence in referendums, but he has indicated that he believes that the university's case is inadequate for social debate. And you find him fit for parliamentary debate? Even though they're smearing, smearing, lying, backing down, people are with us. Fudan won't be in Budapest. There's a student town in Budapest. There will be a change of government in Hungary, and the Democratic Prime Minister of the next government will be called Gergely Christmas. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-07-2	To reply, the floor is for Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-06-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is a discreet charm that you, who started your political career at MSZMP, are now trying to make us communist. [[Sándor Burány points towards the pro-government benches.]] This is infinitely weird, honourable Member. It is also quite clear that what the left did on Saturday is nothing more than political hysterical. This category includes the protest against the establishment of the Budapest campus of Fudan University. This didn't make any sense either, because, as we said several times here in Parliament, the Prime Minister said, I told you several times, and I had the opportunity to talk about it, that the process is currently only in the planning process. There is no decision on costs or implementation. It is possible to decide on financial issues and much more when we arrive at the time when the plans are made and we see what is really going on. This is an approximately one-and-a-half-year, two-year process, and in the second half of 22 it is expected that this issue will actually be opened, and it is worth making a decision on this issue at all. So, in fact, there is nothing else, honourable Member, but that you have created a story for yourselves, and in this context you have tried political hysteria in Hungary, Budapest. So you're really nothing but nebula riders. Honourable Congressman, It is also clear and clear that if the metropolitan and district leaders were not to continue with this nebula stabbing, they would not be able to think about political clowning and street signs initiations, then I could help prepare at the negotiating table and help the process of conception. Because if you do not do this, if you do not want to participate in this, it will certainly be their responsibility, honourable Member, that the site of a large-scale urban development remains a rust cemetery, a dump, or as you have been talking about these areas lately to a huge beekeeper. Honourable Congressman, Let us also make it clear that Fudan University is one of the best universities in the world, with 30,000 students, 4500 excellent instructors, great scientific and research results, a university that, in contrast to your claim and the statements of the left, shows clear facts, is an active part of scientific public life, international scientific circulation, cooperating with the rest of the world's best universities. Congressman, you've talked a lot about China. Dreamy, Congressman, that's the approach you've been telling me. As an anti-China policy, the entire Hungarian left continues because it is well seen that Hungary, like everyone else in the world, has an interest in cooperating with China. We can see that this is what Western European countries are doing, and that is what everyone else in the world is doing. [[13.20]] By the way, Congressman, the corona virus epidemic has also pointed out this very well, because everyone in the world has tried to get tools and vaccinations from there. Like it or not, China has a strong R &amp; D capability and innovation potential, and it is worth working with them in this area. As your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, did when he took political responsibility. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that university investment and student-city investment are not worth confronting, these two investments complement each other and together would attract a wasted and neglected capital area. At the same time, as we said yesterday, we do not want to do good to the people of Budapest, if not against their will, which is why we support that when the conditions for the investment are visible and known, when the plans for such a debate are made, the Budapesters should really decide in a referendum that they want Fudan University. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-4	Now it's time for LMP's representative, Péter Ungár. I give you the floor.
u2021-06-07-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In the beginning, I would like to say a few sentences about Hungarian reality. I'd like to quote a Facebook group where social workers talked about their pay situation. Starting: 40 hours of weekly employment, 24 years of bedside allowance, 251,000 forints net. Thirty-year-old civil servant course, net $237 thousand forints, family supporter. As a teacher in child protection, 32 years of employment, 30 years of civil servants, with two degrees 235 thousand HUF net. And a social worker in a nursing home 21 years ago, 235 thousand net, with all the allowances. And now I'd like to quote you. In 2010, governance was started with the aim of improving the life situation of those working for the common good from kormany.hu, but they can only move forward in the pace of economic development. The first would be the introduction of a career model for teachers, next year they will be followed by uniforms, and discussions on wage increases in the social sector will begin. When did that quote come from? This is a quote from the Prime Minister in 2014 according to kormany.hu. It has been negotiated since 2014 and nothing has happened, and this dramatic wage situation remains. And if it's about the wages of uniforms, talk to a bv worker or someone who's a police officer, and he'll tell you what he thinks about careers and police wages in Hungary. I am talking about this because, in the case of the Fudan University case, the geopolitical context should be mentioned, but it should also be said that they want to spend HUF 500 billion on Fudan University without having HUF 45 billion on a single wage supplement for social workers. They want to spend 500 billion at Fudan University without 200 billion forints to pay for the social sector, no 200 billion forints to pay for law enforcement workers, and no 200 billion forints to increase the salary of beginner teachers. It's more important for you than those in the public sector to build a Chinese university, which is then put on a foundation reserve. The fact is that the people working in the public sector are among the worst-wanted people in Hungary because your policy is neoliberal, and you think that anyone who works for the public does not deserve a real salary. The last real wage arrangement in the public sector was in 2002 after the 100-day programme, which you voted for, rightly, but since you have been in government, there hasn't been any real wage arrangement. 500 billion at Fudan University is a lot of money. A lot of money you've spent so far not asking people whose tax dollars you wanted to spend on this project. We are pleased that you have withdrawn and we are pleased that you support the referendum. The fact is that the public sector's wage management cannot wait for itself because there are many sectors that are already in a shortage of staff that threatens the country's viability. We have seen precisely during the coronal virus epidemic that without the public sector there is nothing to do in Hungary, without it there is no way to rely on the primary labour market or the private sector, as they are the basis for this country to work. As long as there are 15,000 vacant jobs in the social sector, while there are huge shortages in the law enforcement sector, there is no way to talk about a developing economy in Hungary. Overall, you have let these people down, let them down ten years ago, and you don't really know what to say about why this happened. And the thing is, if you think about how much a teacher, a social worker, or, say, a policeman, is making today, you know exactly how ashamed the government's performance has been. In fact, you know, you know very well that this situation is untenable. I don't understand why they don't do something. Gergely Karácsony, the candidate for Prime Minister supported by LMP, will do something a little faster than your promises in order to re-esteem the public sector in Hungary.
u2021-06-07-6	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-06-07-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You must have had a Unicum to cheer that Christmas Gregory here in Parliament, who was trying to blow up your party and your party's parliamentary faction here in order to read the May Other Politics into the left. Times are turning big, it seems, here in Parliament. I didn't think to discover Gyula Horn in your words, either, but it was my second surprise, who said that we were spending too much on college students, and that he would imagine that money elsewhere than to receive diplomas that he didn't see the point. So this rhetoric of Gyula Horn also came back in your words. Honourable Congressman, You rightly said that those who work in state employment, and I would say that those who work for others, who spend their lives helping people and families in difficulty to teach students or heal patients, must be recognised to a greater extent. I fully agree with that, honourable Member. Why don't you just tell me why you're conspiring with people who, if someone wanted a degree in social employment or even wanted to be a teacher, have you enrolled in teaching and I can still list doctors, nurses, nurses with higher education, all these qualifications are subject to tuition? ! Then why are you supporting them, who wouldn't have helped someone get that kind of education in the first place? [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]]
u2021-06-07-8	We are glad that Mr. Arató has arrived.
u2021-06-07-9	You are now in favour of those who have taken a month's wages from precisely one of the most difficult social workers here in Parliament with a pen stroke. You have forgotten to report on this, honourable Member. Because when there was a crisis like today, when there were economic difficulties in all countries of the world, they didn't say what we said last year, that we were raising the wages of social workers by 14 percent, but they said that everyone should wear their belts further, including social workers. On the one hand, they reduced the norm, 100,000 forints at the high-level care, 30,000 forints at the standard care; on the other hand, Lajos Korózs from Kamuvide said that neighbors and friends and acquaintances would have to do a little more to deal with people with a difficult fate; and they took a month's wages from social workers. They didn't take it from the multinationals, they didn't take it from the utility companies, they didn't take it from themselves, they even bought the electricity at a cheaper price. But people who work in the social sphere have taken me away. And the teachers took me away. And the cops took me away. And the doctors took me away. And the nurses took me away. They didn't take me away from the banks. Who did Klára Dobrev collect around you at the beginning of the campaign? Bankers. Well, it's a more honest confession as to whose interests you're going to represent, there's not enough. He's going after the bankers. Of course, you just argued for Gergely Christmas, because, as I said, she tried to blow up your party with a cycle and a half before. Talk to those who took a month's wages from social workers. Here they are, together with you, speaking again today: István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, László Szakács, Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, László Hajdu, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai, László Varju, Sándor Burány. Did you tell them what you just said to the public in this country, that social workers should be better valued, and that maybe it was a huge mistake on their part? [[13.30]] You probably didn't tell me, because otherwise you wouldn't be conspiring with them, honourable Member. Or did you tell Gergely Christmas that when the Crown Virus outbreak broke into the homes of the elderly on Pesti Road, you might have gone to social workers and nurses there to at least symbolically help them if you had done nothing for them, and you couldn't even solve the possibility of continuing medical care in a social home, in the home of the elderly on Pesti Road, honourable Member? As I mentioned to you, you're having difficulties in almost every country in the world. But, honourable Member, in the future, if you were to vote in favour of the budget, you could contribute to spending 768 billion more, thus increasing the salary of nurses by 30 percent from January onwards and increasing the salary of doctors to earn more than twice as much after next year as you earned last year. There is either 101 billion forints more for schools in the field of public education or for social services, honourable Member, 57 billion forints more for next year's budget than this year's. This means that since 2010, a total increase of 158 per cent has been made, while social workers' salaries have also increased by 110 per cent, more than twice. We agree that they should make more money, only there are governments that have reduced their salaries, the only ones since the change of regime, you start with them in the election, and some have raised them year after year with sectoral wage allowances. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] where there is a sectoral salary supplement. That was us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-07-10	It's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn.
u2021-06-07-11	There is no doubt that Parliament is in a good mood to see that there will be parliamentary elections in less than a year's time. It's inevitable. However, it is no longer that the majority of governments, by preventing all attempts, simply refuse to talk about the future, can listen here every week to what they think not only of the last ten years, but of the eight preceding years. Ladies and gentlemen. If you think you need to talk about the past and not about the future, that's not a problem, but this is not going to get you home. And it will not go any further if, in this political competition, you present yourselves as the representatives of the only true idea, who, moreover, represent moral and historical superiority in the matter of the country; this will, moreover, underpin any intention to make the campaign an area of aggressive intentions. I urge you to be the starting point and encouragement of your conduct and politics in a cold-citizen war. If you're going to wage a ruthless, violent war against one side of the country, it's going to lead to this. You don't have to fight with us, you have to fight for the country. I see you can talk about the country, the nation, but you can't do anything about it, plan the future, value one half of the country, consider it a part of the nation, you can't do that. Well, let's try it for the next three minutes. What should we do in the coming years? Most probably, we consider the citizens of this country to be equal, equally valuable, national creators, because the same thinking, the same opinion, the demand for the same faith, is, to be honest, only the own of dictatorships. You say that's not what you want to build. Then act like a Democrat. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everything can be said...]] Keep the country together socially. Not to create a world where your minions build up incomprehensible wealth with human intelligence, while the majority work hard to make a living every day! Create a country where those who have to work daily for a living can protect themselves, even if they are not your supporters, because we want a country where the path to success does not lead through loyalty to Fidesz. To succeed, you don't need a party book, not government support, but competitive performance and quality. The country that is not built on this will not be competitive in the world. The country doesn't go forward like this, but sooner or later, it's gonna go down in your hands. This is what you do to your country. Thank God, and together we hope that we may be through the most difficult part of the coronal virus crisis, but he showed us something: the nothing you've done in the last eleven years in health care has had a terrible consequence. You had the power to do one thing: to prevent a real, progressive strategic reform in opposition. That's been prevented! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The visit fee!]] What have you been doing for the last 12 years? They have achieved that the vast majority of those who want quality services, if they can, either purchase this service with bribes, gratuities, or escape to private health. That's what's happening, please, underneath you. What happens is that in our schools we do not talk about the future, we do not prepare them, we do not acknowledge that every child is different and every community is different, we do not give them freedom, we do not encourage them to ask questions, we do not encourage them to be swept up, and they think that from Szalay Street you can tell how children with different thinking and different backgrounds can be taken to the future by a joint effort. The members of the past remained in every respect. You have nothing to do with the future. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And if they have nothing to do with the future, they should stay in the past. That's what's gonna happen to you soon. Don't hurt too much by then. Be nice. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-06-07-12	I give the floor to Csaba Dömötör to answer.
u2021-06-07-13	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, There's a lot of talk about the future here in the House. Another question is that in most cases [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We can't hear anything! A statement from Jobbik: It's okay! Go ahead. The sound's working.]] He's not here to listen to this. As for the future, if this government had not dealt with the future, there would have been no decision on the tax relief of young people: it will enter into force next January. You guys didn't even think about granting a tax exemption. You did not strengthen pensions, but you took a month; this government will return the one month, 13 months' pension that you have taken. We're going to give it back gradually. That is why the government deals with the future, that universities receive unprecedented support in the years ahead. As far as health is concerned, we are indeed past the most difficult weeks of the virus crisis, and this is due to the vaccinations that you have attacked. If we had gone on your proposal, we wouldn't be here, there would be no opening, and now we wouldn't be thinking about how to restart the economy. What you call progressive reform, in a simpler way, is paid health care, daily allowance, visit fee. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] If we had accepted that if a referendum hadn't canceled it, then each patient with a coronal virus would have had to stick their hands in their own pockets to pay for the supply. And as for the gratuity money, it was the government that led it out, not confirmed it, but led it out. As for the numbers, this government spends 1700 billion forints more on health care compared to your governments. So we're not spending the same amount, we're spending much, much, much more, and that tells us a lot about how important this sector is. You referred to violent phenomena. Well, let's not get to the point where they're trying to make themselves a victim. No violence or threats of violence will fit into Hungarian public life! It would be good to believe that this is what you think, but the fact is that, in recent years, the opposite policy has been pursued, a policy that constantly builds on violence and provocations. Take, for example, the parliamentary scene. If they shout with a loudspeaker, including directly into the face of the President of the Republic, if they include chairs, if they try to prevent decision-making or occupy the Pulpit, they say that if this is the way to behave in Parliament, within the walls of the House, they can behave even more harshly outside the walls of the House. They're telling me everything can't be. Then let's look at the other scenes of the public. It wasn't the pro-government politicians who threatened journalists! It wasn't a government representative who broke into an editorial office threatening the journalist. It wasn't us, it was you, all of you, practically all the parties involved. They broke into a TV booth, and now they're talking about violence, so that one of your vice presidents, by the way, threatens journalists in Rwanda, and another left-wing representative is wondering how journalists who don't think like them should be banned from their profession. [[13.40]] If we had said that, we would have been on the front pages of international newspapers and on the agenda of the European Parliament, and you would have reported us as usual. We also remember well that they were clearly talking about not being able to condemn a building when it was physically affected. Now, the obvious consequence of these sentences is that one left-wing party leader threw smoke grenades at the police, or as he later tries to deny it all: he dropped... then he tries to deny it. That's your policy. The fact is, left-wing threats also affect politicians. A few days ago, you threatened the pro-government politicians with prison, not on a specific matter, but on everyone in general. Everyone in general. Bertalan Tóth threatened to exchange administrative workers, and your wife sent threatening messages to the Constitutional Court. After such a history, I respectfully ask you not to try the role of sacrifice, try not to hide in it; if you really want a more peaceful public life in Hungary, do not bring back the threats of the civil society style. And besides, we have a very vivid memory of one day, the day that you and you not only threatened but also shot at your own people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And there aren't enough funny-looking shirts, loose videos, and youthful sneakers to make rubber bullets go away. Not even because the Hungarian people have always noted that someone attacked their own people. That's why they won't let you come back. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-14	I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély; he will speak for the MSZP. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-15	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, It is clear that the representative of the governing party or the government secretary of state cannot talk about the work of the last almost twelve years, because when I look at Bence of Rétvári, four minutes of his speech is occupied with the past. And we've been listening to this for weeks, and all the secretary of state talks about the past, they're just talking about socialist governance. Mr. Secretary. One of the biggest problems in this country is how healthcare has been bled out in the last 12 years. Today, 325 people die in Hungary per 100 000 inhabitants because the Hungarian disease prevention or prevention system is inadequate. 176 inhabitants per 100,000 inhabitants die because they do not receive adequate health care. It's a 2019 survey. Mr. Secretary. Today, the profession recognises that high Covid mortality is directly proportional to the fact that healthcare is inadequate in Hungary. And that's not for us opposition politicians, it's for professionals. You know, Mr. Secretary, you talk about vaccination all the time. When do they stand up in Parliament and say that by far the majority of the population died in Hungary in the Covid epidemic? They don't talk about losing 30,000 of our compatriots, and to the greatest extent only because the health system is in such a state that they couldn't save them because of other diseases, but such an epidemic took these people, they died. Today, a report appeared with Róza Ádány, Professor of the University of Debrecen, and she also says that the reason why so many people died in Hungary in the Covid epidemic is because the state of health is inadequate. If we look at the mortality rates in Hungary: cardiovascular diseases; cancers; if we look at how many people are sick in European countries, then we could say that Hungary is in the middle field, but in death, we are leading the world ranking by far in cancer. If we look at why they died or where they died thanks to God, now the list of settlements has been made public about how many people died in which settlements, although we also have doubts about the fact that they actually wrote down the real numbers, we can see that if we look at poorer settlements, the underdeveloped regions, where there are less GP districts or community of practitioners or practices that are empty, there are far more people who have died than in the more developed regions. You know, Mr. Secretary, they'd only stand up once and confess to the truth. One day they would talk about what the Hungarian people are experiencing today! Mr. Secretary of State spoke about paying health care. You know, Mr. Secretary, for a year the Hungarian people have not received health care because it was not available to them! Imagine, even in private health, there are waiting lists that even in private health there are patients who have not been able to consult a doctor in time to cure their illness. A simple blood test today, if you went to private health under Covid, you had to wait weeks. For a simple blood test. You know, we have compatriots who can't afford private health care. Today, in Hungary, they have no chance of recovering from a serious disease. And you can say it's been eight years. Secretary of State, it's been 12 years, which is already your responsibility. No one else can be responsible but you. And, you know, the particularly outrageous thing is that if you are a Member of Parliament or EU Parliament, like István Ujhelyi, want to ask you for a professional material, such as a child health professional programme or an anticancer professional programme, you refuse to give a meaningful answer for more than 80 days and then you claim that you cannot publish these documents. Last year, a study on the transformation of the health care system was encrypted for HUF 350 million for ten years. You say that today nobody has anything to do with the transformation of Hungarian health care other than you. Why are they hiding these materials? What do these substances contain? Perhaps we could learn about the reality of these materials. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What you have described to you is that we are right and those Hungarian people who claim that in twelve years you have only been able to destroy health care? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-07-16	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-06-07-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You said that we have been redirecting back to the past for ten years, and you, honourable Member, have been trying to wipe out the past for 70 years. They never take responsibility for anything when, under their own government, they do nothing; when they do not do anything for the benefit of the people; when they only trust in communication; when they say they are far beyond the country's capacity; when they admit that people, the European Union, have been constantly lying, and even the numbers of their budgets are not real, honourable Member, you say that we must not talk about the past. You will never take responsibility for anything, which is why you want to wipe out the past, honourable Member. But what I find very strange is that when Hungary is praised by Hans Kluge, the WHO Regional Director of Europe, and commends the performance of Hungarian doctors, nurses, the operational tribe and the people involved in defence, and says that Hungary is conducting an exemplary vaccination campaign, the vaccine is considered a life-saving tool, whose question goes beyond geopolitics, such and similar sentences have been coming from world organizational leaders for months, then you are constantly criticizing today's Hungarian defence and trying to speak against it. On the basis of the most recent data, the grafting rate in Hungary is already far above 54 percent, while in the European Union it has just reached 40 percent and we are also ahead of the United States of America, which is also below 51 percent, honourable Member. There are few countries in the world today where people who want to be vaccinated against the Crown Virus can do so in an electronic system within days; they register, choose a date, choose a vaccine, and receive their vaccine in a few days. If it were up to you, there'd be classified contracts in the warehouses, not vaccines that we can get people vaccinated with, because you're here in Parliament, you're against everything, everything, everything, but everything, you've blocked. Kamuvideos, fake stats, fake photos published on the Internet to try and stop the defense. You underestimate the Hungarian health system, the Hungarian hospitals, but in Hungary it did not occur, like in Italy, that the patients should have been in hospital parking lots with a larger number of non-invasive ventilation. It has not happened in Hungary, as in France, that chemotherapy treatments have been delayed and that serious life-saving surgeries have not taken place either, honourable Member. What has happened in many other Central European countries has not happened is that he has called doctors and nurses from abroad, because it has not been enough. It didn't happen that doctors have to decide who gets the ventilator and who gets the treatment, because you attacked him all the time, but everyone in Hungary had a ventilator because the government got them. [[13.50]] You, on the other hand, have been able to attack every single phase of this acquisition and have done nothing to help. Once they did not say how you could help more vaccines arrive in Hungary; once they did not say how they could help you with more respirators. Nothing, but nothing has been helped in the defence, but here in Parliament, in the public and in the European Parliament, they have constantly tried to discredit Hungary with false news in Brussels. But it also did not happen, although you constantly criticized Hungarian hospitals for having to treat patients in hospital dining rooms. It did not happen, as in Spain, that the hospitals were so unable to care for the sick that they had to treat the sick in hotels. But there was no such thing in Hungary, Congresswoman, yet you constantly insulted Hungarian hospitals, Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses. What has happened in Switzerland has not happened in Hungary, honourable Member, because they have been told that it is best for people to have their will in advance, how exactly to be treated, if they had been hospitalized during the epidemic. What would you have said as an opposition representative in Switzerland if the government had said that people should already decide in advance to ask for treatment, no, what treatment they asked for, what treatment they would not have asked for if they had entered the parliament during the epidemic, because the Hungarian doctors and the Hungarian nurses also behaved in this great difficulty and sought to protect the health of all Hungarian people. Nor did it happen, like in Greece, that the patients were transported in bulk by trains, say to the capital, or, for example, in Belgium, they were transferred to Germany, but this was also in several other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We Hungarians together, with a joint effort, by changing their way of life, by not meeting with others, not even their relatives, doctors and nurses by not caring for themselves, but by going in and healing and treating themselves, and by joining forces with the operational tribe, police and everyone else, and trying to help the defense, we managed to eliminate them. And you do not thank these people for their work, you do not acknowledge that Hungary has been more successful in these areas. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's like other countries, it's constantly attacking, because all you care about is politics, not human life, not health. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-07-18	It is now Peter James, but before I give the floor, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, in view of the history in Parliament and beyond, I do not believe that you will again violate those provisions. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This Prejudice!]] in the rules of the house and crossing the boundaries that everyone else knows, including you. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Prejudice!]] So I would like to warn you in advance that the Member can say what he has to say, and I would like to say that if he repeatedly knowingly crosses the limits that are not appropriate in Parliament, then I will apply the sanctions that the House Rule makes available to me. So you have the floor.
u2021-06-07-19	Thank you for the floor. Honestly, I'm really sorry we didn't get to see you in person last week, but I have to say, you look really good today, Mr. Speaker. I'm telling you, the mustache, the tie, everything's in place, the seating is really great. So, if the nervous system can withstand the pressure, I think we should do it right at the beginning, of course, that if, for some reason, I cannot tell you the truth within the walls of Parliament today, then I will say it outside the walls of Parliament, as I have just done, because everyone has the right to know! who destroyed this country and what awaits the thieves if we come, because they will pay. You will pay for all the depravity you have committed against this nation. So I'm asking you to think carefully about what you're going to do with the power for the next few months, because we're not the only ones who say you're going to give a damn about the law. But the Fidesz Constitutional Court says the same thing, which finally stated that you voted against the slave law in 2018. In other words, for years you have forced the Hungarian workers to work too hard by illegal means. How about this? ! What's the plan now, fellow Members? Is there another amendment to the basic law coming, or are you willing to acknowledge that even you can't do anything to the Hungarian workers? Yes, overtime is due, rest is due, well-being is due to all Hungarians, I add to it, who is working alongside the line. What are you guys doing compared to that? I look at the budget for next year and I see that you want to collect more taxes from the Hungarian population. I'm sorry, but why would you want to pull more skin off the Hungarian people, for what? Well, they don't have any skin on them anymore. Look around you. Can't you see the numbers? 40 percent of Hungarians have lost income, more than two million Hungarians live below the minimum living age, nearly one million pensioners have to come out of less than 100,000 forints per month. Meanwhile, the price of vegetables will increase by 30 percent, the price of chicken will increase by 25 percent, and the salary will increase by 7 percent, and the pension will increase by 3 percent, but inflation will also carry on. You're having a good time, aren't you? ! Paramedics fighting the third wave to save lives asked the government for money so they could get a little extra income. And what did you do? Instead of money, they sent them a letter saying that you were so, so appreciative of the ambulance's work that they had already raised their salary. I asked a paramedic to tell me how much his work is appreciated. You know what he said? It means he brings home 240,000 forints a month with overtime and night allowance. He saves lives for 240,000 forints a month! And then Viktor Orbán says on the radio that the Hungarian man is never satisfied with what he receives because he always wants more? Well, what are we supposed to be satisfied with? With the 56,000 community service, the 28 500 minimum pension? Should we be satisfied that the World Exhibition in Dubai will cost 11 billion and 150 billion for the athletic stadium? Or should we be satisfied that now they want to take a billion forints a year from Dunaújváros just because the New City people voted for the opposition? Or should we be satisfied that Audi was given a HUF 1.2 billion grant after the CEO of Audi himself said that they should not be supported because they survived the crisis? And he's right! The multinationals survive the crisis and the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises die because they do not receive any substantial support from the government. None! Compassion and loan, yes, rather than giving back 80 percent wage support, letting go of personal income tax on under-average workers, doubling the family allowance, reducing the tax on the poor, the VAT. But no, you don't give anything to the people, you just take more money, more taxes. You're a real loan shark of one of the worst kind. And then listen up. Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, is coming and says that by 2030, Hungary will have one of the best living standards across Europe. Yeah, right. How many times have we heard this line, fellow Members, how many times? ! For 30 years we've heard nothing but four more years, eight more, ten more years, and then it'll be nice and good. We see it! Is this how you want a Western standard of living, like this? With more taxes, even higher prices, even weaker forints? This isn't gonna work, fellow Members. Do you know when we're gonna have a Western standard of living here? Then if you guys get out of public life and pay for everything. Let the thieves pay for the stolen land, pay for the stolen factories, pay for the stolen country, pay for everything. When that happens, there will be hope again that this country will finally get what it has been waiting for for for thirty years: freedom and prosperity. Prosperity for all Hungarians!
u2021-06-07-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-06-07-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me not to yell in my speech, as you did, but we're used to it. Allow me to begin by saying that the workers have never been worse off than they were when you made an alliance with them. The money you'll be campaigning on may well come from privatisations, and it could easily come from the workers. As far as wages are concerned, the minimum wage compared to their government, with whom you have now joined forces, has grown from 73 thousand to 167 thousand. The average gross earnings doubled, from 202,000 to 403 thousand. These are the facts, with which we do not accidentally say that this is enough, but we do say that they have shown an upward trend and are constantly growing. Then there was no family support system, it's now. And as far as the future is concerned, I would ask you with all due respect to the fact that the people you've joined together, what you've promised to put in writing for the future, because if you look at income tax, this government has reduced the income tax rate to 15 percent. Gergely Christmas has a proposal in this regard: she wants to introduce a two-key one, with a tax rate of up to 25-30 percent. That's higher, not what this government has decided. Corporate tax would be increased to 19 percent instead of the current 9 percent, more than double. That doesn't make it a higher wage, it's a lower wage. And the family support system would be adapted in such a way that it is not tied to work. You know very well what that would mean: it would result in 12 percent unemployment. By the way, if I look at your narrower country, only Borsod has lost unemployment from more than 17 percent unemployment to 5 percent. If it's up to this government, it's gonna fall even further. [[Peter James: Only 5 percent...]] Allow me to address not only you but also your new bosses for the rest of my answer, Mr. Leader. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's Rows]] 'Cause that way, maybe it'll get a better finish on what you're about to say. So I would also like to tell Ferenc Gyurcsány and all the left-wing representatives [[Demercation and intervention from the opposition. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Pathetic!]] that they have played an extremely unworthy role in Peter James, he must play this hate-inspiring, provocative role. And there's always a new production, where he brings signs, where he swings potato bags, where he parades in TikTok videos, there's always another. [[Peter James: But I never hold a gun to anyone's head!]] And we can see that sometimes they let him in on talk shows. Well, there's some pretty steep stuff he's saying. [[14.00]] For example, he speaks quite openly about the fact that rural voters do not really dig into things, they do not really read programs, while they are better informed in large cities. [[Peter James: It's hard with hungry stomachs, you know?]] I, honourable Member, [[Peter James: Sorry, you don't know!]] I, honourable Member, have grown up in the countryside, and I ask on behalf of many of us [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] What a scornful country ride this is. The SDS didn't allow you to do that. (Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. ) Then it is also his job, and his job, honourable Member, to stand up for the post-communist candidates one by one. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Consider the examples of the past few days. Shared posters: Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Gyurcsány Party; László Varju, Ferenc Gyurcsány State Secretary [[Dr. János Fónagy: Hurts, doesn't it? Does it hurt?]] László Hiller Minister of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Isn't it embarrassing to do this job? [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] If Gergely Christmas needed an entire Unicum to finish this task, then you might need a whole hecto keg. [[James Peter intervenes.]] You've been campaigning for one of those KIS leaders over the past few weeks. [[Peter James: Of course!]] who had a rather ignominious role in the privatisation years. Let me ask you, Mr. Group Leader, where are the thieving charges? Our feeling between us is that if Mátyás Rákosi were alive, you would be on a poster with him for a few listings. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! That's right! That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Defiance, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] That's it! We have patience... [[Peter James: I bring the Chinese Communists here, don't I? Oh, my God.]] We have patience, and I'm not saying that you're welcome, but we're going to be watching your lectures here, your productions here, and we're going to make a soft conclusion that you've denied everything you've ever done to create a national party. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] to be the country's highest-paid provocator in the service of those against whom they were formed. [[Peter James: You don't have to watch next year!]] And to me, that thieving rhyme was familiar, and I realized from where: a year ago, you told me about it. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] That it was hard to sit at a negotiating table with those against whom they were formed, because Jobbik, let's face it, was created against thieves. It's been a few months, and you didn't sit down with these thieves at a negotiating table. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] He signed them, he sat next to their leader. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: You are the greatest thieves!]] and, as a consequence, a few months later, in Dunaújváros, he held a joint press conference with him, alongside the person who was otherwise responsible for privatisation, and signed it. So, Mr. Group Leader, if you'll see me next time, [[James Peter: You didn't steal the money of the New Towners, did you?]] I don't know how often you do it, and I don't know how you want coffee, but if you get coffee, next time you think that maybe even the cup came from privatisations. So, your statements in the thief's topic, your questions [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I want you to address him to his new boss. A lot of people are gonna be waiting for an answer. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-06-07-22	I apologize to the Secretary of State for not trying. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] By reprimanding you to create a better atmosphere to tell you what you have to say in five minutes, but, uh, I'm guessing you got out first, so you'll forgive me. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Woe! There won't always be a housekeeper's world. Interjections, disclosure in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[James turned to Peter:]] Dear Chief of Staff, Your faction has demonstrated in the last five minutes how you see democracy and respect for others, so I've let everyone see what it's like not to be interrogated by the chairman in that production. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Thank you for the educational purpose!]] What you do here in choir [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We don't want any lectures, thank you very much!]] After your five-minute private number. [[Péter Jakab: Thank you very much, teacher.]] The word is Nacsa Lawrence.
u2021-06-07-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, let me thank all teachers, my former teachers and everyone who cares about our children on the occasion of yesterday's Teacher's Day. Kindergarten educators, teachers, teachers, higher education teachers have proved their sacrifice and position in the last difficult year in order to educate and educate future generations. We also thank them from the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has restarted, the restaurants have opened, the mask has been removed from the smiling faces on the street, events can be held, the curfew has ceased, and this is all due to the successful vaccination program. The country's unique result is that Hungary is the only country in the European Union where there is not a shortage of vaccines, but an abundance of vaccines. You can choose between vaccines, make an appointment, and receive vaccination within hours and days for the person who requests it. There is no such thing anywhere in the EU, if you talk to your foreign or foreign Hungarian acquaintances, you will see exactly how different the situation is elsewhere. Many EU Member States still have curfew or bans, outdoor masking obligations, in many places hotels and restaurants are still closed. We appreciate that we have been given our freedom earlier and that the lives and health of many of our countrymen have been saved thanks to the successful vaccination programme. As the Prime Minister said, individual responsibility has a huge role to play now. Everyone is encouraged to take the vaccine if they have not done so yet, and who has already received it, and who will not miss the necessary second vaccination for ourselves, for our family, for our friends, for our communities and for our nation. Hungary will switch from mass to emergency vaccination, we will maintain designated injection sites, who want to be vaccinated, they can get it there. Let's note that if it was on the left, we wouldn't be here today. Two million people would have been less vaccinated, and most of the restrictive measures would still be with us. Mooding, unsettling sentences, petition, resolution proposal, banning is just a few examples of the left-wing toolbox in recent months when their anti-vaccination campaign was put to the top. Since then, if we look around the house on the left, we can see this: outdoor, unmasked press conferences, country walks, events, pre-election preparations and demonstrations. What do they have in common? They wouldn't be able to hold any of them if Hungary weren't at the forefront of vaccinations, and as a result, we wouldn't have defeated the third wave. If it had been on the left, he would have made his own protest impossible just to prevent the success of the vaccination program. Yeah, it was all over the weekend. The Hungarian people were pleased with the first summer weekend, and there was also a left-wing demonstration, where there were more Communist pro-president flags than national flags. On June 4th, the day of national integration, Peter James compared the Gyurcsány coalition to belonging, but so at least the bettermans knew why they had to throw away their great-Hungarian T-shirts months ago: to make room for TeamDobrev, but even more so for their TeamGyurcsány brand new T-shirts. Now that Jobbik is in favour of the post-communist candidates, and DK is in favour of racist candidates, at least everyone knows that there are only two things missing from the cooperation: common sense and the spine. Finally, with regard to the European Championship that is about to begin, I would like to wish our Hungarian team good luck and decent standing, and to ensure that the whole country is already proud of them, and as twelve people, everyone will be standing with one heart and soul behind them, and will shout out loud, "Go, Hungarians!" Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-24	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-06-07-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the end of an extraordinary academic year, it was indeed an extraordinary educator's day, because we have had a lot to thank the teachers for the past year and a half. I think it is important to confirm from this Parliament that what they have done in the last year has been a great effort. They were used to teaching in front of the school board, and now they were teaching Hungarian students from behind the laptops, but they persisted even when they had to take care of the students in a special way, digitally, with a three-day transition, and then, when the education and education could restart in Hungary after the out-of-line vaccination, they could also teach the students with presence education. In particular, we thank the graduates that last year and this year have not been wasted, as they have been able to graduate, we thank their preparatory teachers, the examiners, the participants in the exams, and thus the possibility of university further education remained for them; not as the Left suggested, which would have tried not to hold these exams in both periods. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] We therefore thank the teachers for their extraordinary standing in the extraordinary situation, helping the students this year as well. The Member also mentioned who are now joining forces on the left, for whom the last year has not been about disease management, but on the one hand, about the attack on disease management and, on the other, about the location and the nomination on the various lists. How did Ferenc Gyurcsány talk about Jobbik a year or two ago? He said that this is not the only sentence that he did not follow up on, that while I am the president of DK, I will not allow DK to engage in political alliances with Jobbik. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] That is why he said in Parliament today that we should not talk about what he said in the past, just about the future. Ferenc Gyurcsány's sentences are extremely embarrassing even at these negotiating tables. Ferenc Gyurcsány said such things about Jobbik: the majority of left-wing voters cannot forget the burning of the European flag, the listing of people and the guarding. It seems Ferenc Gyurcsány forgot these first of the left-wing politicians. He also said: I don't know, I can't, I protest with all my gut that I should be on the same platform with radicals of new Nazi ideas, and then Ferenc Gyurcsány defended here this week and last week's better representatives, Péter Jakab, leader of the group. Also a quote from Gyurcsány: If we make an agreement with Jobbik, we agree with a wolf in sheep's clothing, and with Nazis we can't and we don't have to agree with Ferenc Gyurcsány said these things, then today he said here in Parliament that we shouldn't talk about what was said in the past. [[14.10]] Of course, Péter Jakab was not a fan of Ferenc Gyurcsány, not so long ago, in January 2020 he said that you always have bad thoughts when Ferenc Gyurcsány throws in the idea of a common list. Now, with a smile and a happy march towards the common list, Gy. Erzsébet Németh and other emblematic left figures will be launched as Jobbik's own candidate in the primary. This means two things: on the one hand, that Jobbik has lost all credibility; on the other hand, it supports exactly what it has been created against. And the other is obviously an act, a Gyurcsány show, the entire left-wing primary, because when Jobbik's candidate, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, obviously we cannot seriously believe that this is a real competition, where the candidates of the left-wing parties are competing among themselves. And we have also seen in the last few days that, for example, when the momentary candidate stepped back in favor of Bence Tordai, it also shows that they do not want any realistic competition, but want to divide positions between themselves before the competition is launched. To eliminate as many competitors as possible from this competition as possible, the important questions about who will be on the Gyurcsány list next year will be decided in Ferenc Gyurcsány's tiny villa. Gergely Christmas said: "I don't deny it, I had to drink some Unicum today to put up with the situation; I don't like it that way, but that's what it is. This, by the way, in every part of it, I think is typical of Gergely Christmas, that, if that's the case, she accepts that she doesn't have a particular will in this area either. So we can see that nothing on the left matters but power. Ágnes Vadai asked the D.A. to disband Jobbik in 2012, and now he asks the right-handers to support him in the elections. Kálmán Olga didn't let any better guys on his show because he said he wouldn't give the Nazis any ground, and now he's proud. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Takes their support. Where is the straight speech on the left? ! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-26	Our last speaker before today's agenda is coming out of the ranks of the Fidesz faction. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund.
u2021-06-07-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, What doesn't kill you strengthens you, says the proverb. And we have nothing to build on it, the death sentence for Hungary and the Hungarian nation was issued 101 years ago at the Grand Trianon Castle in Versailles. Punishment like the peace dictatorship has never been imposed on a country or nation since historical memory. But Hungary was able to overcome the incomprehensible losses and revive from its own ashes like the mythological phoenix bird. At the same time, the torn parts of the nation showed their will and ability to live, organized themselves, and adapted to the changed conditions. World War II has caused further devastating losses, and the decades of internationalist communism have followed. While in the successor states all levels of the state's operation were covered by chauvinist ideology, in Hungary in Kádár there was also a severe punishment for singing the Székely anthem among friends. In the mother country, there are at least two generations who have heard of Hungary as a country bordering itself, because Hungarians live everywhere on the other side of the border. This was the point of reference from which the sense of national cohesion had to be rebuilt. Ladies and gentlemen, On June 4, we remembered the national tragedy at the memorial of the Szekler Division in Csíksomlyó. The striped knights also summoned the memory of the Szekler division. At that time, after the great war, a few thousand Szeklers fought for the Hungarian country with Hungarian weapons in a situation that seemed hopeless. Today, all young people should know this story because it is possible to draw strength from the glorious battles and the example of the inner division, which is also fighting the communist enemy. There is no lost cause, there is only the honour of the Hungarian country, and for that reason we must fight, the example of the Szekler division sends to us as the warriors sang it together, as one man in the battle march. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, During the last 30 years of marching, the journey took a heartwarming climax and disappointing lows. Looking back from today, we can really see the significance of József Antall's late Prime Minister's statement that he is in spirit 15 million Hungarian prime ministers. Another high point was the status law, the Double Citizenship Act, the introduction of a system of cross-border family and economic development aid. However, we cannot forget that there were also soulbreaking low points that caused slowly healing wounds on the body of the nation. Such was the elimination of the Hungarian Permanent Conference and the undisputed negative coronation of everything, the Gyurcsány national treason of 5 December 2004. The latter was a low point in Hungarian politics that cannot be forgiven even today. Perhaps not because the person who coordinated this prehistoric crime, the Hungarian foreign national of the motherland against Hungarian, never apologized for it. The left he led, Ágnesestul Vadai, and to this day Klarást Dobrev continue the same practice, scattering the meth, and raging against the foreigners, and Gyurcsány's men, the entire left, follow the autumn national traitor. Timea Szabó felt sorry for the masks from the Hungarians from abroad. Our better-looking fellow Members, who previously remembered the Trianon tragedy on 4 June, are celebrating the birthday of their new leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, on the day of national mourning. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite all previous pitfalls and intrigues, Hungary's past ten years after 2010 were also a successful period, measured on a historical scale. The country's international authority is constantly increasing, and we have managed to settle our common affairs with some neighbouring countries. Today there are more than one million new Hungarian citizens, and the Hungarian nation is more united than ever in the last hundred years. In the last year, the virus has been isolated, but today we can hope that together we have overcome the invisible enemy, the vaccine protects us from the virus, and at Pentecost, Csíksomlyó once again ignited the flame of hope in the Carpathian Basin. Ladies and gentlemen, The forces that make up the left in Hungary are, in fact, the local unscrupulous servers of the global interest group who think in a Europe without nations and local peculiarities, deprived of its traditions and Christian values, broken down by migration. In the new world they dreamed of, we can't even be sure that the boy is a boy and the girl is a girl. You also need to see how they call their Prime Minister candidate anyone, whatever parties form the left-wing cooperation, its conductor and dominant figure will be Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, in order to gain power, will have nothing expensive. If necessary, he will lie in the morning, at night and at night, and if necessary drive a wedge between foreign and motherland Hungarians. In such a situation, all Hungarians who love their nation and country have to do that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In order not to allow the left who attacked his nation to return to power, he will have the right to vote next year: vote for the rise of the nation. The stakes are huge, but we have the flag and the long fight...
u2021-06-07-28	Congressman, your time is up 15 seconds ago.
u2021-06-07-29	... tostrengthen, we will win this battle together again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-30	State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer, please.
u2021-06-07-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The commemorations on Friday, June 4th were special, because we could not have been together, if we had not succeeded in breaking down the coronal virus epidemic with cooperation, the preparedness of those involved in defence, a smart vaccine procurement policy and the reduction of anti-vaccination sounds, we could not have said so firmly that we could finally begin to restart Hungary. For the past year, the feeling of being locked up has been overwhelming for all of us, and the constant struggle has determined this period. However, we can now say that we can raise our heads again, we can sort things out together, and we have the opportunity to analyse the situation and even make plans. Our predecessors faced a situation even more difficult than today, 101 years ago, when they had to reorganize the mutilated Hungary in the shadow of another extremely serious blow, the Trianon tragedy. Our ancestors then began this task with great enthusiasm, they did not lose faith in the fact that for Hungarians it was almost a mission, a thousand-year mission to organise life in the Carpathian Basin, no matter where the borders of our country go. Neither the opposition of the successor states nor the cynical colonial policy of the great powers behind them could shake them in this faith. There were, of course, forces in Hungary that question this assessment of the situation. One hundred years ago, the supporters of some left-wing ideologies paralyzed Hungary at the most serious moment, exposed us defencelessly and fundamentally contributing to the destruction of the building work of the previous period. Today's left-wing policy, as a continuation of this glorious tradition, wants to destroy the construction of national policy for the last decade. [[14.20]] The construction, thanks to which Hungary has once again become an important player in the Carpathian Basin and the whole region, and is able to make independent decisions as a sovereign state on matters of fate; thanks to which it has successfully completed its cross-border reunification, we have broken down the epidemic among the first, and, relying on our own internal power, we have escaped economically relatively unharmed the plagues of the last year. The question of borders must not be left unmarked in the speech on a nation's solidarity and the Trianon tragedy. We Hungarians understandably feel duality in this concept. It would be unthinkable to have any political-cultural community or nation without delimiting it. However, the cut-off not only separates, but it holds together, it also provides security and protection. However, the existing state borders have been physically separated from the mother country for more than a hundred years from the rest of the Hungarian nations living in the Carpathian Basin. At the same time, thanks to the national unification policy of the last decade, they can no longer prevent any Hungarian from feeling a full member of the nation. Therefore, I would like to draw attention here and now only to the fact that the real borders are often not where passports are requested, but where the expanse of a community ends. Today, the Hungarian nation's action radius, its border, lasts much longer than the border of the state. We ourselves are proof that common origin, common language, common customs, common religion, common laws are the same limits, linking the living within them, and even in a globalised world, this is a huge buoyancy. Therefore, I propose to everyone that we do not view the physical boundaries that exist today primarily as dividing national parts from each other, because we ourselves are the proof, we Hungarians; the policy of the past decade, the spread and the spread of our community, goes beyond that. Instead, let us look at them as official links with neighbouring countries. Here again is the day of national solidarity, which is a sign; a sign that the injustice that has happened to us will never be forgotten; our opponents will never be able to break us, that we have a mission in the Carpathian Basin, and that borders can not only separate us, but also connect us. We have a lot of work to do, the winner of the new world under the new rules and the 21st. We must make Hungary a winner of the century and all of Central Europe in it, but we are ready. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-07-32	Dear House, We have reached the end of the comments before the agenda, but I have been informed that Congressman Gergely Arató wishes to speak on account of personal concerns. Is that true? [[Gergely Harvester nodds.]] Thank you. However, I see that the reality is that no comment has been made on anyone's part that would justify it. From now on, all I have to ask is that you wish the House to vote on this matter. [[Gergely Harvester says no.]] No. Thank you very much. Then I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz, notary, to present the other speakers on the agenda.
u2021-06-07-33	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Balázs Simon, Fidesz; László Szakács, MSZP; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Anita Potocskanyé Kőrösi, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik. Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Márta Demeter, LMP; Lajos Oláh, DK; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik; László Földi, Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Miklós Simon, Fidesz; Anett Bősz, DK; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-06-07-34	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:25 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[Noise.]] My fellow Members, I would like to ask you to move quietly and quickly, who has work to do outside the Chamber. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the room.]] Dear House, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since I know that you are a great fan of quotes, allow me to begin with a quote from András Lánczi:. What is called corruption is practically the main policy of Fidesz, said the then leader of the Századvég in the winter of 2015. According to Fidesz, it is important for the domestic entrepreneurial layer to be strengthened. The quote goes on: "This is what they say, but this is corruption. This is a political point of view, and it is actually a question of making corruption mythical. So far, the quote. Dear Secretary of State, Do you agree with these statements made by one of your chief ideologists? Do you believe that corruption is the essence of Fidesz's policy? This is interesting, you know, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán found in the last instant questioning hour about Jobbik that we are the most corrupt party in Parliament, and he referred to these oligarchs as an argument; obviously also the money man who made a significant contribution to all your political victories before G-day. There's some contradiction here, don't you think? But if you are going to use Viktor Orbán's disparaging sentence... please name a politician in Jobbik's ranks who has been accused or accused of a corruption crime. But allow me, however, to name some of your ranks, just for clarity. For example, let us begin with Flórian Farkas, whose name can be attributed to HUF 1.6 billion of abuse from the time when the Fidesz Member of Parliament was the president of the National Roma Municipality, which carried out the programme to the world of work. In view of the complexity of the transaction, the prosecution has not been able to close the case since 2016. Five people have been interrogated. Meanwhile, for three years, the EU Anti-Fraud Office has prepared a detailed report on embezzlement of employment subsidies, i.e. corruption is the essence of Fidesz' policy. Then there's Roland Mengyi, your former Member of Parliament, sentenced to four years in prison for attempted budget fraud and other crimes, which means Fidesz's policy is about corruption. This fate seems to be waiting for György Simonka, who is still pressing the buttons in this House, providing you with two thirds, even though György Simonka and his associates are being prosecuted for the crime of fiscal fraud, which is particularly detrimental to property, and for other crimes. In August 2019, 33 defendants were prosecuted by the Metropolitan Tribunal. So the whole point of Fidesz's policy is corruption. But here he sits in his ranks, also. Boss., István Happy, who, as a senior official, has committed the crime of accepting bribery as an instigator of a criminal alliance, and has committed a criminal offence in a public procurement procedure of an instigator of a restrictive of competition agreement. So the whole point of Fidesz's policy is corruption. Dear Secretary of State, In light of this, who do you think is right: András Lánczi or Viktor Orbán? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-36	The floor for reply is Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. I give you the floor.
u2021-06-07-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I think, Congressman, that there is also some confusion in your head and in the minds of some of our fellow Members in the next seats if you hear the term corruption. You are a Hungarian teacher, so you should know that if a philosopher declares that the protection of national capital, if you call it corruption against multinational capital and help national businesses, you may call it corruption. If you can't jump this, it's not my fault. I do not wish to go into details, but with effect from 1 June 13 of 2012 Act C of the Criminal Code, he placed corruption crimes in a separate separate chapter in Chapter 27, Chapters 290-300/A. The provisions of this Regulation shall be read in accordance with the correlation table in Annex II to this Regulation. I suggest that these be studied independently or with legal assistance for the sake of clarity and for the benefit of all of us. [[14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a state of law: the police, the prosecutor's office and the courts enforce the laws with everyone and apply them to everyone. The congressman may throw names, but unlike the left, we always have the consequences of turning away from the path bordered by law by our community. [[Interviews from the benches of Jobbik, including Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, pointing to the benches of the governing parties: Sitting here...]] But let's see what you have to say. Prime Minister, every word you said was true when you said that Jobbik was the most corrupt couple. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre:]] Think of the poster case, for example, that's why the President of Novak left your ranks. But if you look at the current period, you are behind Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: What about corruption?]] contrary to the fact that they are in breach of their purpose in the articles of association, who is practically linked to the party nomenclature. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: So?]] With this, Jobbik, or what he became, betrayed his voters, betrayed the victims of the 2006 Gyurcsány Terror. [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Jesus!]] Dear House, Allow me to mention a few quotes from you or even from the entire left. If we move on in time order to see how big the collusion is at the Jobbik-Palogue duo: Bence Tordai said that Jobbik is full of dark cases and public figures. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Find them. I'm moving on. Balázs Ander, your party partner, in his Facebook post on August 30, 2016 called it a shame that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his associates, responsible for police terrorism in 2006, were not put behind bars. I would also like to quote one of their deputy group leaders, who in 2020 shared Péter Jakab's post with the inscription that the Origo asks that the Gyurcsány line remained in Jobbik; and he responded: the question is a lie, how can something remain that is not there. If you want to talk about corruption, I will help you: this is politics, this is corruption, what you are doing is political corruption. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] And another thought. I don't know. You've already thrown out the guard vest. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Was that corruption?]] Or you can recreate it when Ferenc Gyurcsány is protested together to allow the sickle and hammer again. And in the end, we mentioned that you must also have literary education. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You banned the guard vest...]] In the chapter of Dante's Divine Charade on Hell, there's a ninth round. I don't know, from head to head, who's frozen in ice, suffering or even in other forms in the ninth circle, yes, this is the circle of traitors... [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches. You're in...]] Study this situation. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-38	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2021-06-07-39	Thank you very much for the floor. You know, Secretary of State, what surprises me most is that I have already delivered this interpellation on Wednesday, so there was enough time to prepare them for whether, indeed, the matters that I have brought to this House, and which I have listed, are matters of corruption, or they actually fit into any other category. I think that it is appropriate to talk about economic corruption, and these matters fall exactly under the category of economic corruption. Of course, I cannot agree with the washing of the nutmeg, and I cannot agree with the accusations of the left, because I believe that there are no very specific accusations here, very specific persons and very specific investigative deficiencies. I think that if there is a change of government here in 2022, and it is likely that it will be, then these matters must be speeded up. And I can't accept that answer for you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-06-07-40	Dear House, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will be taken on our meeting tomorrow for each interpellation which the questioner will not accept. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for families. I give you the floor.
u2021-06-07-41	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government is re-entering the fertility treatment system. After years of reform, a law amendment was resubmitted. It says a lot that all this came into a bill on asset management issues last week. On the basis of the proposal, in the future, special procedures for human reproduction will only be granted under the State-owned health service provider and a clinical centre in accordance with the Public Interest Trust Foundations Act, which forms part of the single public health management. Service providers that are now authorised to do so will lose this right next summer. On the other hand, the designation that a clinical centre under the law on public-service public-interest trust foundations is, in Hungarian, that the clinics maintained by the recently established university foundations can still carry out fertility interventions in addition to the public service providers. So it can't be a non-state, but eventually it will be an opportunity through foundations to do so. Nationalization has not just begun, since at the end of 2019 six fertility centres were nationalised; as a memento, there were only a small number of three or four clinics, but now it's over. The clinics to be ploughed will be obliged to hand over the embryos and gametes they hold, while companies undergoing the change of ownership will be entitled to public compensation. It is also interesting how they are in a hurry to do this, as after 30 September, a new reproductive procedure will be launched this year, and no further independent intervention for fertility management can be launched in the current centres, even though this law will only be implemented next year. To this end, the justification is very politely added that the transitional period is made possible by the fulfilment of the population policy objectives inherent in the continuity of supply. But what's the hurry? You're not planning on plowing this before the election, are you? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State and to know how you need consent to hand over embryos and gametes to a third party, whether this is not illegal. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State, since she is no longer here, why the proposal was submitted by the new Minister Gergely Gulyás, who is the Prime Minister. We have a secretary without a wallet named Katalin Novak. It is quite interesting that this very important amendment is not submitted by the Minister for Families, but by the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I ask you, Mr Secretary, why the haste, and indeed the program of infertility is supported by these transformations. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-06-07-42	Mr. Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-06-07-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The proportion of women and men suffering from infertility has increased worldwide over recent decades. Today, like international proportions in our country, one in five couples encounters difficulties in getting pregnant. According to expert estimates, the total number of couples with fertility problems reaches 15 percent of couples, representing some 150,000 couples. Today in Hungary, we support the birth of all the children we want and are responsible for. The measures we have taken so far will help us achieve our main goal, so that as many healthy children as possible can be born in our country. To this end, the National Health Insurance Fund Manager will support five IVF cycles for the birth of the first child from 2017 onwards, compared with five supported IVF treatments in total, while for additional children a further four to four cycles can be used publicly funded. Dear Parliament, As of 1 February 2020, funding for fertility benefits in Hungary has changed significantly, with 100 percent support for treatment. We have removed the performance limit of the institutes that operate flask treatment with state aid. Unfunded diagnostic care has been introduced so far, so public involvement in fertility treatment has become nearly 100 percent. It is essential to develop, operate and manage institutions subject to government governance in a national system; it is also necessary, while organising central management, to adopt a single directive and procedure by the profession and to enforce health authorities. It is also of paramount importance to provide financial instruments to encourage child birth. Overall, in recent years, we have nearly doubled the amount of funding for infertility treatment. I have to say, Mr President, that the congresswoman has partially told me about her interpellation, and there are two other things I would like to answer despite the fact that she has not said it, because she has one of her questions in writing concerning the provision of data, to which I reply, that, even in the year 2020, the number of embryo implantations by public service providers was higher than in the year before, in 2019, based on the information provided by the National Health Insurance Fund Manager. For further information, please see the representative on the NEAK website. [[14.40]] I would also like to inform the Parliament that what she has written about the case relating to the CSOK contains several errors. If the Member had read the relevant legislation, it would have been clear to her that what she said did not, of course, correspond to reality. The congresswoman wrote, and I quote: "If the planned child does not arrive within a certain period of time, then the couple must undergo compulsory fertility treatment. This is not included in any legislation in Hungary. The Government Decree on housing aid for the construction and purchase of new dwellings also regulates in detail the situations which are particularly appreciated in relation to the relationship between childbearing conditions and housing aid, specifically with a view to giving birth to as many children as possible to be planned and undertaken. What I can tell you is that it's not good to deliberately misinterpret legislation, because it's for certain couples who care about it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We'll make your intentions difficult or we'll upset you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-44	I'll ask Congresswoman, she'll take the answer.
u2021-06-07-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for mentioning the fact that I asked a few months ago how many children were born in Hungary in recent years through flask treatment. You have only been able to provide such an approximate number, and it would be mandatory for KSH to publish data before and after 2014, how many of you have been involved in reproductive treatment and how many of these children have been born. Since 2014, KSH has not complied with this legal obligation. In addition, one of the internal employees described that this legal obligation is not fulfilled, and I do not understand that a Ministry or a State Secretary cannot give an exact number of numbers, how many children are born in Hungary through such treatments, because the Ministry must know exactly how many children are born in Hungary. Secretary of State, I can't accept your answer because you didn't answer what interests [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They control the law to even hand over the last private clinics to the state. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-07-46	Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. I give you the floor.
u2021-06-07-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the shocking results of a recent survey, 70 percent of domestic and law enforcement workers are considering changing their careers. Basically, it's the result of your non-government that more than two thirds of the cops, prison staff and firefighters are thinking about finding a new job for themselves. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that you think that this is okay, perhaps we should spend taxpayers' money on something that interests people and which is important in people's lives between two hunting exhibitions. Being a policeman on the street is being a fireman, putting out the fire, and being a man in prison who guards the prisoners, and there are a lot of other tasks there, which is a very important issue for the people. Unfortunately, I have to tell you, you're busy spreading public wealth. Here's the so-called model change, as you call it. We call it public money hundreds of billions being shoveled into fidesz private foundations. This is so busy with all their strength that they don't even realize that a very important group of law enforcement workers are expressing their dissatisfaction. However, it wouldn't hurt to grind two foundations, which we can say is, unfortunately, to deal with the fact that only two percent of domestic and law enforcement workers think that they properly acknowledge their work and pay them well. This is no wonder, because it is important to say here that the average salary of a newly-equipped police officer is essentially the same as the guaranteed minimum wage, Mr. Secretary of State, that is 145 635 forints. So that's why they're out on the street all the time, and I don't even want to add that right now, because it deserves a special interpellation that these people are doing an amazing amount of overwork and over-service precisely because of the huge shortage of numbers that you're constantly denying. So now, in the twelfth year of your non-government, we are in the process of still struggling to raise the law enforcement salary to 60,000 forints. Secretary of State, other stipends have been raised by some, not much, but increased. Now we are talking about the fact that the Hungarian Defence Agency is essentially sucking away the police and domestic law enforcement. It's definitely not a solution, and you know it. They've been reorganized since then, so they're changing the relationship, basically they're doing the same job they've been doing, yet they're out of public service status, they're getting a low wage, they're getting much lower wages, they're making progress slower, they've got less freedom. It is clear that their situation will already be dealt with by the new government of national unity in 2022. We are going to do that, and we are going to sort out their circumstances, but, by the way, obviously. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your blessed activities will not be forgotten. My question, Mr. Secretary, is when will the wages of law enforcement workers be raised to 60,000 forints?
u2021-06-07-48	Mr Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2021-06-07-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The survey referred to by you cannot be considered credible or representative, anyone who has been able to fill out this questionnaire every time. Let's look at the facts. In 2010, the government set itself that goal and promised to restore order and public security in Hungary. As a result, today we can say that the number of crimes has decreased by one third, not by one third, but by a third, compared to 2010. Hungary's public security is balanced and firm. Surveys show that citizens' sense of subjective security has improved significantly in recent years. Here too, before the National Assembly, I thank the law enforcement professional staff, their often trying service ensures the safety of all of us, they are also responsible for the establishment and maintenance of internal security, the surveillance of borders and the fight against Covid. Thank you very much. You constantly and regularly distort reality, slipping. The discussions and discussions on salaries have been conducted by the Ministry of Interior in the past, not in public, and we do not want to continue this practice in the future, and we will maintain the negotiations. In the first four months of 2021, 253 professionals removed the uniform, including retirement and death, while 85 percent more applicants were involved. The 10 - month course was started by 189 people, who will be appointed about two months later. As far as the salary base is concerned, honourable Member, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the new salary system, by increasing or redefining other elements, has led to a significant increase in salaries and a significant increase in earnings for professional staff. In July 2015, we launched the law enforcement career program with the new law enforcement law, with an average salary improvement of 50 per cent of professional staff, which was completed by 2019 and thus implemented. From 2016 we introduced performance benefits, and the government provided HUF 12 billion in additional resources; this was also a significant revenue and a significant increase in earnings for professionals. In 2011, housing subsidies were extended, which is currently HUF 2.8 billion a year. On 1 January 2017, we introduced the system and institution of law enforcement health damage care. According to this, in December 2019 each law enforcement officer received a lump sum of HUF 500 thousand gross upon application for a regular salary five years before the retirement age. This increased by 10 percent compared to the beginning of the year, and as of 1 January 2020 professional staff will receive a 10 percent higher income on an additional income allowance, which is granted each month under subject law, and the government has allocated an amount equivalent to a total of six months' extra wage in the 2021,. 22 and 23 budget, i.e. an amount equivalent to six months' extra wage, to ensure the staff allowance for professional staff. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As has been the case so far, the government has provided adequate resources for the effective performance of law enforcement tasks, recognising the work of professional staff, which is what we will do in 2020 and 21 and 22 respectively. If that is what you want to achieve, I would ask you to support the 2022 budget in the final vote by voting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-50	The floor is once again for Congresswoman. [[14.50]]
u2021-06-07-51	Dear Secretary of State, You raised the salary of firefighters, cops and bvs the way you cleaned up this country in two weeks. They can't lie to the staff, no matter what they say here in Parliament, what's on record, what lies they tell. They know exactly what is real, and unfortunately, people feel what is lacking in the stock. So make sure there's a cop on the street, firefighters who put out the fire, bvs who guard the prisoners, and otherwise, that's your responsibility. Now, for the moment, not for long, but you're in control. The stunt I've done so far pretty much shows that I pictured you doing this, by the way. For next year's budget, I submitted an amendment that would guarantee an increase in the salary base of law enforcement workers to HUF 60,000, thus making a major contribution to uploading the stock. This also applies to Józsefváros, Ferencváros, VIII, IX. Circuits, just like they do nationwide. If it's important to you, you'll vote for it, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-52	Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Property Management without a wallet. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Interpellation will be answered by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology with responsibility and competence. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This expensive hunting exhibition is outrageous in itself in the midst of the epidemic, but if you look at the details more carefully, unfortunately, this is such a waste of money and is so extremely expensive that it transcends all imagination. It is not clear why we needed to organize the exhibition in a place that would require a few more tens of billions. It happened that the government bought Hungexpo in April 2016 for HUF 17.3 billion, but with a very strange and unfavorable contract. According to the contract, this area is rented to a French company until 2035; under the terms of the contract, the state does not have access to the pavilions, so it is that this area is rented for HUF 2.5 billion for the hunting exhibition. On the other hand, the state is forced to spend billions more on Hungexpo, which is rented to a foreign French company. Well, I want a man on his feet who understands that. The point is that the World Exhibition with the renovation of Hungexpo's building is actually much more than what the government says. We don't even know exactly how far it's going to end. Last week, your boss László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation, threw an additional HUF 6 billion in public money at the exhibition, so the total cost in this program is now well over 70 billion. Zsolt Semjén said several times that this world exhibition will be profitable, it will come back to pass, but the reality is that the last HUF 6 billion added alone is more than foreign hunters leave in Hungary in a year. To sum up: an expensive, completely unnecessary exhibition in the middle of a pandemic, organized in a place where the state, i.e. the Hungarian taxpayers, pay double. On this basis, my questions are: how much do you think will be the total amount of the event and the associated investments? Where's the line? What is enough for you: 100 billion, 200 billion, or the sky is the limit? What makes this investment profitable? How many hunters will arrive, how many guest nights do you spend here, are there any calculations for that? If there are, be kind, show us, we're very curious. And in fact, this is the most important question: wouldn't it be cheaper to cancel all of this right now, and to spend the money on protection, health and social worker wage increases, to help entrepreneurs in tourism and catering? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-06-07-54	Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor.
u2021-06-07-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, you're not telling the truth again, what you're doing in Parliament on a regular basis, is 99 percent lying and 1 percent clowning. Honourable Congressman, You're confusing everything with everything. Of course, I could say that I consider it a personal failure, that I have tried many times to explain to you the different numbers, always completely unsuccessful. Now, I would like to make an experiment, although I have no great hope of understanding that I will be able to make you understand the fundamental facts. Hungary hosts a serious international event between 25 September and 14 October, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Hunting Exhibition of 71. The total cost of this, as you said, is HUF 17 billion, and this includes the HUF 6 billion you talked about. So once again: 17 billion forints, and it includes 6 billion, no extra costs, no new items. This amount clearly includes the total of the 20-day World Hunting Exhibition at 75 thousand square meters, half a dozen international conferences and a number of Hungarian additional events that will take place as the launch of the World Exhibition. The total cost of the development of Hungexpo is HUF 55 billion, the reconstruction is going well and will be ready for the World Hunting and Natural Exhibition, but also if this word means anything to you. Moreover, this development is completely independent of both the Eucharistic World Congress and the World Hunting Exhibition, as it will continue to be a useful and important venue, where international events can also be organised in Budapest. The exhibition halls in the Kőbánya market town are renewed and a new reception building is added, as well as a new conference centre, which means that not only in Budapest and Hungary, but in all of Central Europe, there will be a huge institution of this type with the greatest capacity. This will help Budapest, which we want to develop, to become a regional exhibition and conference centre in the future, even more so in this area. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible why you and the entire left would want to constantly smudge and distort the various amounts. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) We have also said on many occasions that holding these events in Budapest is of paramount importance for the restarting of life, which you could understand only because your friend Gergely Karácsony is leading the capital of Budapest, and instead of supporting the re-launch and development of tourism in Budapest, you are speaking here in Parliament against Budapest. You go against taxi drivers, hotel owners, restaurant owners and everyone who lives from tourism in Budapest, by the way. I don't understand this, Your Honour, I don't understand. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. I'll return the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio for a minute. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Couldn't explain things, but let's just say it didn't sink as low as it did the last time you forged a letter, read a letter from 2019. [[János Schanda: Me?]] 2021. [[Tamás Schanda: That's not true!]] So this exhibition was called around HUF 10 billion a while ago. Deputy Prime Minister Semyen said that he would be around 10 billion. Now it turns out, Mr. Secretary of State, we now know that it will only end in 17 billion. [[Tamás János Schanda: You talked about 70 billion!]] So you're making it look like this 6 billion has already been planned, while you've been talking about a cost of about 10 billion. Now it turns out it's 17 billion. That's why I'm telling you, these amounts are going up so fast, it's amazing. In the middle of a pandemic, in a crisis, you have the most important hobby of the Deputy Prime Minister, and you want 17 billion forints. This is a very good example of the whole government's attitude to this issue. I'm sure neither the hosts you're referring to would accept that answer, so I don't accept it either.
u2021-06-07-58	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Member Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How many jobs have you managed to protect thanks to the Government's employment protection measures? It's an address. Honourable Member, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer you. Congressman Bánki has the floor. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2021-06-07-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The coronal virus epidemic has posed an unprecedented challenge for our country over the past year. In the fight against the epidemic, the first one is obviously the protection of people's lives and health, but we also had to do everything we could to protect the Hungarian economy and thus the jobs of people. There is no doubt that the livelihood of Hungarian families can only be guaranteed, my honourable fellow Members, if they can work and support their families, and this requires that the economy recovers from the crisis caused by the pandemic as soon as possible and that we can achieve better results in the short term. It is a fact that the government is doing everything in its power to keep jobs, create new ones, and keep businesses alive, which we thank you for. The aim is therefore to maintain the country's viability in order to reboot in most sectors. To this end, the government is still working unbrokenly to restart the economy, as without strong national businesses there is no strong national economy. Thanks to the wage subsidies introduced in the framework of the economic protection action plan, Hungary has managed to maintain its viability. In addition to tax and contribution reductions, efficiency-enhancing and competitiveness-enhancing subsidies, the introduction of labour market steps has also contributed greatly to preserving the results achieved over the past 10 years. The government's goal is that everyone who has lost their job can get it back or get a new job. It can be seen that these are not just empty words, as next year's budget is also fully focused on re-launching the economy. The economic re-launch action plan allows everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover. Supporting investment in businesses is key to a successful relaunch, since if domestic businesses emerge from the crisis stronger, then the protection of Hungarian jobs will also be ensured. Dear Secretary of State, The government's actions show the difference between the thinking and actions of the national government and the former left-wing government: during the governance of the left, it only humiliated families and entrepreneurs, taxes and rents, leaving hundreds of thousands of jobs without work, specifically eliminating more than 200,000 jobs, whereas the civilian government did everything in its power to protect homes, jobs and the standard of living of families. So I ask the honourable Secretary of State how many jobs have been protected thanks to the government's measures to protect jobs. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Congressman, as I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, and as we all know here in the country, the corona virus not only endangered our health and our lives, but also attacked the economy, it was also a threat to our achievements with Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. That is why the government has undertaken and undertakes to create at least as many jobs as the virus will destroy, to help everyone, to be there with everyone who is in trouble because of the coronal virus epidemic. This is why we have established the largest economic protection action plan in the history of Hungary, which was built on job preservation, job creation, strengthening priority sectors, supporting businesses, helping Hungarian families and pensioners. Among other things, we introduced a credit moratorium, we provided wage subsidies to the most difficult companies, we took half of the wages there, and we also let go of the social contribution tax, and we also reduced the business tax to half the business tax for businesses. The measures taken in time allowed 1.7 million people to receive government support in Hungary. However, the sad thing, honourable Member, is that there has been a national unity in the field of defence, but the left did not want to participate in this national unit, nor did he support economic measures that helped Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, and often help in life. If it had been on the left, who had the opportunity to support these measures here in Parliament, there would have been no wage support and no credit moratorium. As soon as they could, they stopped the defense here. Honourable Congressman, With regard to wage subsidies, please allow me to inform you that by 31 May, companies may have applied for this form of support, especially in the areas of tourism and catering, but wherever they are in more serious trouble. Since November last year, about 30 thousand companies have asked the Hungarian government to help them keep 180 thousand employees, and we have provided them with this support, but we have helped them in a special area of nearly HUF 30 billion in total: to preserve the workplace of highly qualified professionals. In the framework of this, some 1,500 companies could keep their engineers and IT experts, as well as their research and development specialists. Last year we were able to contribute to the preservation of 23,000 jobs, and this year we were able to contribute through this programme. This is particularly important because, in this way, in the period when the economy is restarted, these usual engineering-informatics and research-development teams are available for domestic businesses, and so we really have a chance to pass through a curve. Honourable Congressman, Finally, let me inform you that the number of registered job seekers in Hungary has decreased by more than 100,000 compared to last June's employment low, and thanks to economic protection measures and Hungarian businesses [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There are more than 4.5 million people working in our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your correct and exhaustive reply. It is reassuring to me that what the Government has promised, what Prime Minister has personally promised to the Hungarian electorate here in Parliament, that no one is left on the side of the road by the Hungarian government, it is clear from what the Secretary of State said, because there is a permanent employment of over 4.5 million, so we can say that we can practically produce the same level of employment now, after the crisis, as we did in 2019, in the last year before the crisis. I think we can all be proud of this, because, as I said in my speech, one of the most important things is that everyone who can have a job can work in Hungary. It is also very important, Mr State Secretary, that you mentioned that this is not just what the government has focused on, but also on pensioners and families. In the next year's budget, we see that we are already going to have half a month's pension in retirement and that the family support system is expanding. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Keep up the good work. Thank you very much, your answer is, of course, accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer you. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past 10 years, I have raised my voice on several occasions about the fact that stone trucks have completely destroyed the lives of small settlements, their roads, the houses are cracking along the road, and the road is making traffic dangerous by speeding. I wrote a letter years ago to the president of the county assembly. I wrote a letter to the congressman years ago, he didn't answer. Today, the roads of some settlements have been ruined so that they can no longer travel on them, but the people who live there must live with them, because they have to live in their everyday lives. A recent initiative aimed at finally getting these stones on the rail, which everyone is happy about, and so am I. Last week, after the agenda, I assured the district's representative of my support that, although I have already initiated many times, and so far he has not appreciated an answer either, I am not approaching the tasks to be solved on a political basis, but on the basis that it is important for the people there, or not; this is very important, so he and everyone who thinks positively on this issue can count on my support. [[15.10]] So much so that I have tabled a budget amendment on this issue that it is not merely a promise, that there is no need to wait for a proposal, and that, above all, no matter where it is held, it should be included in the national budget, which guarantees that the lives of tens of thousands of people will be relieved. I also invited the representative of the district to my amendment, who did not join him, so I have no illusions that he will vote against it in the vote. I have two questions for you, or I have one for the Secretary of State. Will there be public funding for the implementation? Perhaps there is already a separate amount for this, because, as I said, the living conditions of many people are largely affected by this investment. The representative of the district pointed out that stone transport would take place between Recsk and Kál-Kápolna and that the road would be freed. And what about the section between Recsk and Kisterenye, and what about the settlements on that trail and their roads? This is exactly the stage that was destroyed by stone transport cars in connection with the four-tracking of highway 21, which was completed a few years ago. I look forward to your reply, Mr Secretary of State, because although we should have dealt with this problem years ago, now it really does not have to keep you waiting. We can achieve results that are acceptable to everyone if we consider the whole section, not only in one direction, but in both directions. There's a promise, we're hoping there'll be a solution. Dear Secretary of State, My question is professional and not political. I would also ask you to give me a professional answer, which is not only in my interest, but also in the interests of the more than ten thousand people who live there, and they are eager to hear your answer. This decision is yours, yours. But life, which is decisively influenced by it, belongs to us locals. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's weird that you regret closing a railway line while not naming those responsible, by the way. Your friends on the left against the railroad have closed this railroad, and you want to help these old people back into power. You assist in this every day, and in fact as vice president of a left party called Jobbik, one of the main actors of this. In fact, honourable Member, it is a fact that the railway line in question was renovated by the first Orbán government and was closed by the Gyurcsány government. It is also a fact, honourable Member, that you are not aware of the affairs of the region. You can only speak from here, about the life of the people in the region, because you may live there, but you do not know what is happening at all, you are not even a little behind. On the other hand, MEP László Horváth has taken this matter under his wing against you and has spoken several times in front of the Hungarian public and here in Parliament on this subject. Congressman Horváth really cares about the people who live there, and I can also confirm that he can exert strong pressure on the government and the ministries, if that is what it takes to lobby people in the Heves County region for some kind of development. Congressman Horváth has taken care of it, as he has promised, and the government has supported the construction of a railway bridge at Verpelét's railway station with a significant amount of money. He not only sought a solution and found an important problem, but also brings real development to the region. The Government has decided what Member László Horváth has already announced on Friday. I suggest you be a little more informed next time, Congressman. [[Interviews from Jobbik: It was on by Wednesday! I had to drop it off by Wednesday.]] Moreover, let us not forget that the Member has even sent us a petition signed by 5,000 people, and the people living there have asked the government for effective help and support to try to solve the problems of transport as quickly as possible. The design process has therefore begun to see how to reduce the load caused by trucks. The modernisation of the Verpelét station on the Kisterenye-Kál-Kápolna railway line and the construction of the public loader allow the environmentally friendly transport of goods for other freight forwarders, along with the relocation of the products of the nearby quarryes from road to rail, and the development will help countless municipalities to avoid harmful side effects of road freight transport. The development is a great relief for the municipalities concerned, and it allows companies to carry rail freight, and this is the most important, and the living conditions of the residents can significantly improve due to falling traffic. I can suggest one thing, Congressman, to thank Congressman Horváth for the measure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-07-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Mr Róbert Dudás to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, you know very well that until last Wednesday, you had to publish literally the text of the interpellation, which I also gave up, and I did not deviate from it. Maybe you expect a little more than that, more professionalism. I asked for it. It was nothing professional. You didn't answer my question, no matter how much you wriggled your shoulders, that this investment, for example, covered the Cracsk-Kisterenye section, because it was also ruined. The tens of thousands of people who live there are waiting for this renovation. It is very easy for you to say from here, about Budapest, how much help this is. It really is a great help, but we would finally have this promise, and not if you had highlighted László Horváth, we would write the letter from place for years as a representative, as mayor, but you still don't answer. Mr. Secretary, I'll make you an offer. For all people living there, including me, it is very important that this be done. Do it, please, we'll all be happy: bring me every mile of national-colored ribbon, cut through as many as you want, make it a party propaganda, let the glory be yours. It's enough for us locals to get back to our peaceful lives. Thank you, Mr President, I cannot accept the answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-70	Thank you very much. Dear House, As you have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Where is the "Clean the Country" programme? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer you. Congressman András Aradski has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Climate change, extreme weather phenomena and social impacts are affecting more and more people. This is why the climate crisis cannot be taken lightly, and it is necessary to act instead of talking. The primary task for Hungary is to preserve and preserve the natural environment, rich water resources, agricultural land, forests and diverse wildlife of the Carpathian Basin. The Carpathian Basin is a suitable place to maintain the common living space of Hungarian families even in the event of adverse climate scenarios. In the framework of the climate and nature conservation action plan, the Fidesz-KDNP government declared Hungary's intention to be a climate neutral country by 2050. Under this climate protection action plan, the cost of the transition to a zero-net economy must be first paid by climate disruptors, second by major polluting countries and large companies. Dear Minister, The first point of the climate and nature conservation action plan included the government's commitment to cleaning up illegal waste to the country. [[15.20]] In the event of improper collection, treatment, disposal, processing and disposal of waste, the most stringent measures will be introduced. The government is taking decisive steps to eliminate illegal landfills and punish the perpetrators. The latter goal is also important because in Hungary 328 thousand cubic metres of illegal waste is deposited annually, which would cover Kossuth Square at a height of six metres. Hungary's Government is committed to fighting illegal landfills and littering despite the viral crisis. Started in 2020 with a "Clean Hungary"! A program in which large corporate partners and organisations such as MÁV, the Hungarian Public Road, the National Directorate-General for Water and the state forestry industry support successful implementation. Dear Secretary of State, The programme has been going on for almost a year now, so with an interest in the details, I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State where the "Clean Hungary" is. Programme, what measures have been taken by the government to eliminate illegal waste management. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's good for you to respond again here in Parliament. The national civilian government, as you have said, is convinced that action can and must be taken against climate change, not in words. We don't want to make Facebook posts, we don't want the solution to the climate crisis, and we don't think we can protect our environmental values by chanting wasp garages and empty horse-zunges, by pretending measures. We believe in action, that we need real decisions and real action. Honourable Congressman, The climate and nature conservation action plan was adopted by the government in January 2020 and its aim is to do everything in our power to enable our children and grandchildren to inherit the environmental values of our country, the created world, in a better condition than we have received. The measures can also contribute to Hungary becoming a climate neutral country by 2050. One of the important objectives of the action plan, which we are implementing despite the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, is to eliminate illegal landfills and to clean up the affected areas. In the summer of 2020, we started this process, and the -Clean the country! In the framework of a project entitled, we have charged more than 27 thousand tonnes of illegal waste together with various intermediate organisations. For example, 181 municipalities received a HUF 1 billion grant and 285 additional applicants received HUF 2.4 billion so that they could do their part in this work. But we also created an application, the WasteRadar application, which has been downloaded by nearly 16.5 thousand people, and about 17,000 reports have been made of illegal landfills. It is also an important step forward to ban the marketing of certain single-use plastics from July, since we cannot allow garbage mountains to overwhelm the country. Allow me, Congressman, to take advantage of this opportunity to thank everyone who has contributed, either in this proposal or at other times and in other forms, to fighting together against illegal landfills. Honourable Congressman, Let me also say that one of the explicit aims of the Act amending certain laws on energy and waste management adopted by Parliament was to reduce illegal waste and litter. With this law, we eliminate loopholes, and we do not allow some people to litter the land and water at the expense of the country and especially our children, even through hazardous waste. And those who do not follow the rules will be severely punished. It is quite terrible that the left did not want to help here, even for the sake of the Hungarian people, he did not support the law for our future, but he took the side of the litterers. But this is not surprising, because while we are fighting, the national-citizen sober side is fighting against garbage and littering, while the Mayor of the Left, Gergely Christmas, is demoting 25 percent of the public dumpsters in Budapest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman András Aradszki to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-75	Thank you for the opportunity to answer. Of course, I accept the answer, even knowing that the Hungarian government has set itself a very important goal, and therefore the Hungarian society, to move to the creation of a circular economy, which will make it available so that these wastes will not be created to this extent and in this proportion. It will therefore be important in future legislation, beyond what the Secretary of State has said, to set up, in addition to legislative and budgetary measures, a system that will be put in place for the organised, professional and economic recovery of non-domestic waste. It's gonna be a big job, the government's committed to doing this job. For the record, there are little problems with waste management, and what worked until 2019 is not working right now. The reason for this is certainly that they were more capable leaders in the past. To sum up once again, I accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Tibor Bana has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What road improvements can we expect in the areas of Körmend, Szentgotthárd, Vasvár, Jánosháza and Őriszentpéter? It's an address. Honourable Member, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer you. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is still not a single kilometer of motorways in Vas county, although Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has promised on several occasions to travel from Budapest to Körmend, then from Körmend to Szentgotthárd on the highway. Compared to this, the M80 drive only takes place twice in the same lane between Szentgotthárd and Körmend, and in an amazing way, it will be paid. It is unacceptable to ask for money from the people living in the area and from our visitors to use such a section of the road. So their earlier promise was broken. Unfortunately, however, this is not the only problem, but also the typical state of the lower roads. Without the need for completeness, I have tabled several proposals to the budget next year for road improvements, in addition to which I also argued at the Committee on Budgets. Unfortunately, the pro-government representatives, Zsolt V. Németh, did not support them. I'm sorry my fellow Member didn't wait for my interpellation, he was in the room two minutes ago. The development of the post-Hegyhádász-Hegyhátsal section of the 76 main road was voted down, the establishment of the turn lane from the 84 main road at Kissomlyo, the road connecting the Apatistvánfalva-Szentgotthárd, the road connecting the Őriszentpéter-Kondorfa-Csöröt, the road between Szentgotthárd-Máriaújfalu-Farkasfa-Szalafő, the road leading through the Szalafő-Hodos border, the road passing through Szattan, the state roads of Szentgotthárd and the road between Velemér-Magyarszombatfa. I could, of course, continue the line for a long time by listing the roads to be renovated from the parts of the old Route 8 or from Ispa, Vissák to Nagyrákos, Rábágyarmat, Rátót to the region of Jánosháza, Káld, Kemenespálfa or St. Petersburg. But I could also say other settlements about Kemenesalja, Kemeneshat, Vasi-Hegyhát, the Őrség or Vendék, because there are many other problematic roads in our county, especially in the constituency of Körmendi-Szentgotthárd. Let's look at our bathing areas, for example. In the case of Borgáta, Masteri, Celldömölk, Bük, Sárvár, Szombathely, Körmend or Szentgotthárd, the quality of the roads around these settlements is very low in many cases, and for those who visit us it is certainly not a positive experience, a memory, but the same is true for those who come to the Watch, the Vendék, the Ság mountain or the neighborhood of Kőszeg. These should also be resolved, and substantial steps should be taken. Dear Secretary of State, In the areas of Körmend, Szentgotthárd, Vasvár, Jánosháza and Őriszentpéter, many of us are curious about the answers to the following questions. Can we expect the renewal of the relevant sections of the roads in the foreseeable future, the development of further sections of the roads and the construction of the first km of motorways in Vas county? We look forward to your substantive answers. [[15.30]]
u2021-06-07-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, it is legitimate for the people of Vas County to build and modernise as many and better ways as possible, and it must also be seen, honourable Member, that this is why the Hungarian Government, the national civilian government, is doing so, as we are spending an unprecedented amount of resources on road development. Honourable Congressman, However, it is also a fact that Mr Zsolt V. Németh supported, in contrast to what you said, the proposals that you spoke about. [[Tibor Bana: He didn't support them!]] The government's strategic objective, honourable Member, is to connect cities with county rights to the motorway network, to drive motorways and motorways to national borders and to improve access to technological and industrial centres. That's what we've been working on for the last decade, and that's why we're still working on it. As a result, the length of the motorway network in Hungary was less than 1,300 km in 2010, which has now increased to 1,700 km. By the end of 2020, 86 percent of Hungarians can reach a motorway or main road network point in no more than half an hour, and by 2025 nine out of ten Hungarians will live 30 minutes away from the motorway network. Honourable Congressman, It is also true, and perhaps there is no debate between us in this regard, that in the period before 2010, there has been a lot of maintenance, a lot of improvements, and we have to work this out in the last decade and in the coming years, and this remains a lot of work. This year, there will be more than a thousand kilometers of road renovation work, which is twice as much as last year. According to the government's decision, this year and next year more than HUF 157 billion will be provided for the repair of nearly 590 kilometres of the road, and as part of the Hungarian village programme, small settlements will be able to repair the roads at 600 kilometres. We also help people and businesses in Vas County with major and important road improvements. The construction of the two-track road between Zalaegerszeg-Benekpuszta of the M76 motorway is under preparation, the construction is planned in the fourth quarter of 2021 and the entry into service in the fourth quarter of 2024. As a continuation, the M76 road between Zalaegerszeg-Körmend is also under preparation for about 30 kilometres. The M80 highway, the Körmend-Rábáfüzes border, two single-track highways have begun and are under construction, in October 21 of the Körmend-Vasszentmihály section, while the 6,6 km section of Vasszentmihály-Szentgotthárd was handed over on 3 June, thus Rönök and Szentgotthárd-Jakabháza are hereby exempted from transit traffic. The M86 road between Körmend-Szombathely-Zanat two lanes, 26 kilometres long, are being planned; the M87 motorway is also being designed between Szombathely-Kőszeg with the aim of avoiding settlements [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] ensure that they are connected to the motorway network. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-07-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Tibor Bana to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, his claim that my colleague Zsolt V. Németh supported my proposals in the Committee on Budgets is so true that the M80 was implemented twice in two lanes. My fellow Member abstained from all of my proposals, and he did so in a pompous, arrogant and condescending style, and I have received a lot of negative feedback on this. In any case, I have always acknowledged that if there has been progress in road development, for example, in terms of road 76, it is a positive development that you have been talking about. However, I do see this overall, and unfortunately, in his reply, he did not say that most of the roads in Vas County, and otherwise in terms of main roads and lower roads, are even more true, they are not at the top of the priority list at all. Therefore, we cannot expect substantial renovations in the near future, even though the people living in the region and our visitors deserve to be on the right quality roads and XXI. You're allowed to drive under centuries of age. I can't accept your answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, honourable Members, the Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply. This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 3:35 p.m. now, and we're moving to immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask you, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2021-06-07-83	[[Without sound:]] We will wait for Viktor Orbán with the question. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-84	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer you at the hour of the third instant question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question:. What will happen to you, Summer Balatoni? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer you, and I would also like to ask you to accept the person who is responding. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi nodds.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Accordingly, it is for Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not think that there is a debate between us that tourism is one of Hungary's leading sectors and is one of Hungary's most important sectors in the national economy, and I do not think that there is a debate between us that perhaps this is the sector that has been hit most by the corona virus epidemic. But when I'm being approached by a crowd of private accommodations because the bookings are being rejected because of the lack of a protection certificate and the receipt of accommodation for the protection certificate, it would be possible to change that. In today's speech, I ask the government how you plan to use services and accommodations, as in Croatia, here in Hungary, with a negative PCR test. This is also important because in recent years you have renovated a lot of private accommodations through the Kisfaludy program. Most of these private accommodations are complete houses for a family, so they can fully comply with the epidemiological measures. However, accommodation workers find that while accommodation has been sold in a few days in the previous years, there are families where a person does not have a protection certificate for health reasons or other reasons, given that he has not been vaccinated. Thus, the tourism sector, especially at the beginning of the summer, could go down again, since last year this protection certificate was not needed, since last year all accommodations could operate with maximum capacity. So we believe that this test would indeed have relevance, and that is why my fellow Member, Mr Rig, has also tabled a proposal for a decision in order to ensure free testing by the government and to use these tests for the services which could otherwise only be used with a protection certificate. We believe that this would be an opportunity for the tourism sector, and in particular at the beginning of the summer tourist season it would be a great help. This is for private accommodation publishers [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They're really, really looking forward to it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-07-86	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2021-06-07-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am pleased that we can talk about this, which is due to the fact that the number of vaccinations has reached that point, the number that we can debate here or engage in a professional dialogue on how to look like Balaton summer and tourism within it. [[15.40]] What measures can be taken by the way, and how much Hungarians want to go to Lake Balaton in the summer, in what number they will do it, depends above all on the epidemiological situation. I would like to assure you that either the decisions on the protection certificate or other epidemiological decisions are always based on the proposals, proposals and opinions of health professionals. Please note that we cannot give in to this principle, while, by the way, we are also trying to take into account the aspects of tourism, the tourism sector and private accommodation. By the way, I am pleased that you raised this question, even because, in the Kisfaludy programme, not only medium and larger accommodations have been renewed, but also private accommodations, 14 thousand private accommodations could receive a million HUF support, in the months in which they were otherwise faced with major problems due to the closure. This represents a total of HUF 42 billion in support; virtually everyone who met the conditions could receive support. So if we agree on this, despite all our internal political debates, we agree on the importance of this, I think we have taken an important step forward. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is whether to plan, even in consultation with health professionals, to use these services with PCR tests, as in Croatia. Because what is happening now is that since those who have not been vaccinated and have no protection certificate can come to Hungary, they will go to the Adriatic, and what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said will really be fulfilled is that people are going to the Adriatic. But it's not just what they're preparing, it's not just this that they're making the bed for, it's wild camping. People are going to go down to the shore of Lake Balaton, and they're not going to sleep in accommodations, they're going to sleep in parking lots. There is a much greater risk to public health. Please consider and allow accommodation intake with PCR test. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to remind you that, despite all the difficulties of last year, tourism in Balaton ran with a rather significant number of guests, I tell you, despite all the difficulties, and we have all the hope that this summer can be stronger than openings. I can confirm the principle to you: we would like to resolve any restrictive measures as soon as possible depending on the epidemiological situation. I think the last few days have proved that. So once the number of diseases, the number of vaccinations, the number of people killed, the number of people in the hospital allows it, then the government wants to lift the restrictions, and we want to get back to normal as soon as possible. By the way, as far as the other measures are concerned, we would like to support from many sides that Lake Balaton is an attractive target, perhaps it is good news for you and for the private accommodation owners mentioned by you. 125 billion forints of development in progress; 45 free beaches renewed; Catamarans renewed [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] two new catamarans are in service, two new shuttles, and ports can be renewed. I think these are goals that you can agree with. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Is that all right? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that you have given Mr. Secretary of State Schanda the right for his official absence. I'm asking you to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. László Cook nods.]] Thank you so much for letting me know you're okay with it. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Investment must always be happy, and in the life of a city it is always good to have investments, because it enriches the city and builds it up and makes it beautiful. That's what we normally think, but here in Komlón, the investments are now famous, especially because of the fact that they're getting damn expensive on the way, some of them, some of them, they get a little less expensive by the time they finish this investment. Let's say that was the building of the market hall, which started from 500 million forints, then it became 750 million forints by the time it was finished, or so there was a space that became more or less 100 to 120 million forints more expensive than the offer was offered or asked for. Of course, there is a question of what the entrepreneur who has the costs so high has offered. It also arises what the person who ordered this investment asked for. But these questions have to be asked, because otherwise, all we hear is that the city won the contest. Of course, the city won the competition and paid for the part, that's fine, then the extra government support, then there's extra credit, and in almost every case, there's extra work coming. That's how these investments get expensive. We see that in these cases, the entrepreneur usually benefits, as the amount of investment that is being paid to him increases by about 50 percent, and the technical content decreases by about 20-30 percent, so what he needs to build. Mr. Secretary, we are always happy about the investments, but my question is: are you going to investigate this, are you all right with these things? Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-07-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I hope you didn't confuse me with the mayor of Komlo. However, as regards your question, allow me to make clear and clear the practice that the Hungarian Government has been pursuing for years, when it comes to government resources: we judge a subsidy, and if it turns out that there is more money in the process of carrying out the support, because there are unforeseen technical problems, this can happen in a development, I think you have heard about it, or you have heard of it, or you have heard of certain building materials, something more expensive, something like this, we can hear about it, then the Hungarian Government investigates in every case that it is justified to give extra support. If there is an increase of more than 15 per cent, if the so-called increase in costs exceeds 15 per cent, we will also carry out a judicial expert examination of the investment concerned, and only in this opinion will the government decide to support or not to support the financing of the additional costs. We are interested, honourable Member, in developing every settlement in Hungary, so let Komló also develop. So I hope that you also support investment and development and do not want to pursue a left-wing investment policy in Virtigli. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-97	Thank you for the floor. Quickly to the two questions that you asked me: no, I did not confuse you with the mayor, you are the ones who provide the funding and the supervision of it. I mean, no, I'm not against investment, and I want these investments to be made, with much less debate. There are unforeseen things, of course. What I've been talking about so far has been in the past, and I'm telling you something that should have been foreseen for the next period of investment. Three out of three investments are ruined. In one of them, they didn't know they'd need an elevator in a multi-storey building given to entrepreneurs. The other one doesn't fit the design building on the property. And on the third, they don't know what the soil structure is under the bus station, so they don't know what the soil is where the buses are going to go. I am asking you to help the mayor of Komló to manage these cases, because it seems that he is making decisions alone, overtaking himself, making faulty decisions, and that costs Hungarian taxpayers a lot of money, as well as hoppers. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-07-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-07-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After all, from your rejoinder, I had a feeling you were confusing me with the mayor of Komló City. But, honourable Member, I can reassure you that we are helping everyone who asks for this, we are supporting every development, every development, every investment that can contribute to the rise in living standards for people living on the ground. I'm asking you to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2021-06-07-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Honourable Congressman, Because of the Prime Minister's absence, he appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Minister. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity.
u2021-06-07-101	Yes, thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-102	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-103	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Dear House, A few days ago, the Minister of the Orbán Government, the non-independent and non-autonomous central bank, explained in a long paper by the president of the Fidesz-KDNP government over the past decade. For a country that you have full power, this is completely tragic. It is difficult to decide whether to cry or laugh at the fact that György Matolcsy is criticizing or even attacking you or your boss, Viktor Orbán, even because György Matolcsy is Viktor Orbán's irreplaceable right-hand man, and he is partly responsible for the crisis that has arisen in this country. But what did he say? There was no discussion of a national vision, there was no development of a long-term competitiveness programme, there was no complete renewal of higher education, there was no renewal of health care and the development of an advanced health industry, there was no complete renewal of transport infrastructure, and I could say more because he said much more, but that is not enough. The indictment covers a number of areas of life, which is why you have to face this responsibility. György Matolcsy claims nothing less than that you have lived up to the present and the near future. I would add that, in the meantime, instead of governing, the Republic was destroyed, its important institutions were liquidated, and that deliberately created a corrupt country. It is also internationally famous, as after the address of "hello, dictator" we no longer wonder that Viktor Orbán and his family have enriched by HUF 15 billion over the last seven years. Dear Minister, They can throw responsibility like hot potatoes or not. But how do you feel about how much responsibility you and even you have in person after the past decade you've wasted? Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-06-07-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Fortunately, we are in a position to ask the President of the Central Bank directly, as a Member of Parliament, if there are any doubts or questions about his claims. Listening to your question, it's more like a decade ago Russian I remembered the title of the movie: Look who's talking. Look who's talking about a wasted decade because you weren't the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy when Hungary was warned not to cheat budget numbers and economic numbers? Recall, Mr President: In the autumn of 2005, it was the Spanish Socialist Commissioner of the European Commission, Mr Almunia, who warned you that you were ill-booked, cheated, and in Hungarian. [[László Varju intervenes.]] It wasn't you, and it wasn't your boss, Honourable Congressman, who said we lied this morning, night and night? If we are talking about a wasted decade in Hungarian history, then I think that the period of the two thousand years was wasted when you were on the government. An ectant example of this was that in 2008 we were among the first to turn to external aid, otherwise we would not have been able to finance the government debt due. You were the Secretary of State at the time. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, we have now fixed the economy, we are off the bench of shame, we have been called an excessive deficit procedure, you put us there, the country there, today Hungary is not among these countries, the IMF loan that you have taken, we have cancelled, we have been able to repay, and in recent years, economic growth has developed when we were podiumists, and indeed, when we were the first of the 28 Member States of the European Union, now 27 Member States. In this respect, the reduction of unemployment, the raising of pensions, the suppression of deficits, the reduction of debt are all in contradiction with what you said in your question. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-07-106	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman László Varju. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-107	Thank you very much. Minister, I will use your encouragement, and then I will ask the President of the Central Bank about it. But, speaking of a movie, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is responsible, so let me quote from the film A Witness that you are all a bunch. So from this point of view, you have a shared responsibility. And while you're blaming each other here, you might even point beyond that, while I'm telling you what to do: reduce poverty, increase family allowances, open universities instead of closing, start a rental program, raise pensions, and deal with them. We need to get back the doctors and nurses who quit health care in order to heal. This will be the goal of the opposition's joint government programme, so that Matolcsy and everyone can see that there are others, even outside of Fidesz, who really care about the future of Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Then, if I understand correctly, it is necessary to do the opposite of everything you did until 2010, because it led to disaster, bankrupted the country, failed to pay off public debt, and while there was high unemployment, people were hopeless in the labour market, they did not find employment, and they caused significant real wages and real pension losses for pensioners and workers. I promise you, honourable Member, that we will take your advice and continue with the economic growth that we have started. I would like to remind you that the first quarter, the first quarter of the economic downturn after the epidemic, now the first quarter of 2021 has also brought a significant improvement. So, while we did not cause the epidemic and the economic downturn behind it, we are among the first to emerge from this crisis. Hungary is the sixth country in the European Union in comparison. So we have every hope of clinging back to the growth path we were in. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-07-110	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is the government planning? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Mihály Varga has appointed Deputy Prime Minister for his response. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-06-07-111	Mr President, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2021-06-07-112	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Will there be a single health care? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Thank you very much. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I thought we should continue the dialogue on medical care that started last week. I told you the other day that several people were in trouble because of the fact that the value of the German dot has not increased since 2017 and that the properly increased medical wages cannot be managed by these suppliers. So these are healthcare providers, for example, which deal with the fact that they mostly carry out public tasks, whether in their own real estate, by their own means, with NEAK financing and NEAK contracts. This means that they do not take any money from patients, nor can they, of course, accept it. There are companies among them, and there are ten of them now, by the way, since last week's speech before the agenda, which indicated that they are facing serious problems. Some have been operating for more than 20 years, some have been operating for less than 20 years, but have long been performing public tasks such as urological specializations, ultrasounds, psychological or psychiatric specializations, neurological and other specialties. They are now having problems not being able to pay these increased medical wages, even though this would be necessary in order to maintain these specialties. For example, in Komlón, the hospital handed over these tasks at the time because it could not handle them because of a medical shortage, and in Pécs, for example, the situation was the same. But I could also mention other service providers, but I'm not doing this now, of course, because of the time constraints. [[16.00]] However, I would like to have the answer to the question of reviewing this position, or they still believe that these providers do not need additional supplements. Thank you very much for giving me a meaningful answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer the question, I ask the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Our thinking and the funding of NEAK is based on patients, the cost of healing patients, not on different providers, that it is now a private service provider, the municipality or a local government-owned company. NEAK deals with anyone, pays the same amount for the same treatment, for the same cure, whoever it is. Obviously, these amounts are constantly rising, and you know it, and you know it, that there will be more than two-and-a-half times the health budget that was adopted in next year's budget than it was in 2010, so it has increased steadily. There are also important reasons for this rise: on the one hand, the next step in increasing the wages of doctors to more than double and, on the other hand, the 30 percent increase in nursing wages from January this year. If, therefore, a public, municipal task is provided, if a private task is performed, the State will not pay any more to a private company to carry out the same task. The aim of the State is to carry out a public task in a given area, and obviously that includes outpatient care. The budget is thus planned, with similar area sizes with similar planned amounts, the same benefits with the same funding. I don't think it's logical at all, and it wouldn't be possible at all for a private operator to receive a bonus because he's a private provider, compared to a part of a hospital, a block of buildings being an outpatient clinic, and they're running the same job from the current grant, and they're paying the wages, paying the rent, on-call fees, and so on and so forth. I therefore believe that we must not talk about financing in a sector neutral way here, and that there is no reason why someone should receive a surplus because they are private suppliers. Obviously, it is also very complex in outpatient clinics or outpatient care about how it was solved. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Our goal is to ensure that this is as safe and as united as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-117	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to give them an extra one, but to give them the opportunity that state, municipal, and church suppliers get, so that they can get a supplement to the medical wage increase itself. So I did not say that only they would receive an additional contribution, but that they had been left out of the law, and that they would like to be included in it, because they have a public task of financing NEAK and are unable to catch up with the medical raise. For example, I know someone who has two million points a month, that's four million forints, so it's a little hard to catch up with you about the wage increase, and as far as I know, in other sectors, i.e. state, municipal and ecclesiastical, they get some extra benefits. That's what I was thinking, so they could have what the rest of them have. I didn't mean extra. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I can't identify with you, and I can't grieve that you're now in a state hospital or a state clinic with a higher salary for doctors to leave the private company, Kft., and they're coming out of it, and they're working for the public service provider. I do not understand why this is a problem for you, honourable Member. Thank God they're finally making more money at the state hospital. Thank God they're finally not thinking about going abroad, as in the time of socialist government, when over 800 doctors have asked for permission to work abroad, and now less than 300. I'm glad you're not thinking about going to a private service provider, but I think you're talking about a trend that all reasonable people welcome, that health pay has increased compared to private service providers with many doctors and many nurses working in the public system, because they're getting higher salaries. I think it's not something you should be moping about, it's something you should be happy about. We should be glad that doctors and nurses make more money, and we should be glad that the state system can properly appreciate these people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] not to give extra benefits to kft. to reverse this process. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Mr President, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Bence of Turdai nodds.]] Thank you very much for pointing out to me that you accept the person who is responding. Congressman Bence of Tordai should take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to thank not you, but those who have come to protest next to Student City, against the project of Fudan University, and have forced you, the Fidesz government, to back down, to prove that the power of the people is always stronger than the people of power. I am sorry that Minister Gergely Gulyás is not here, because I would ask for the interpretation of his words, because on Sunday he said that the issue of Fudan University does not exist at present in a form suitable for public debate. On the other hand, a government decision came out in April, and in May you presented a bill that is currently in front of the National Assembly, the title of the Foundation for the University of Fudan Hungary, the Fudan Hungary Foundation for Property, so you will set up a foundation responsible for the establishment of the university, and you will give them valuable real estates in Budapest, promised to Student City, according to the bill. Do we understand Minister Gulyás's statement that you are withdrawing this bill? I'm asking you first. Secondly, his fellow minister also said that plans were not available. Well, compared to this, we have already seen two sets of plans from Balázs Fürjes, then from László Palkovics, and they have long boasted in the debate of the law about how well prepared and developed plans are available. So my second question is, has Fudan's plans been abolished so that the original concept of Student City can be implemented? The third thing I would ask you to interpret is that if you support the referendum, because you do not want to do good to them against the interests of Budapesters or Hungarians, so to speak, what else will there be a referendum. Will you be interested in the Budapest-Belgrád railway? Would you care for something much more expensive than these Paks II? Would you like to know about the universities and public wealth that have been handed over to the Fidesz Foundations? What other referendums are being held as planned? Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause? Where's the applause?]] We will hear the answer from Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I myself can confirm the words of Minister Gulyás on the issue of Fudan University. The government supports that if the conditions of the investment are already known, then Budapesters can decide in 2023 in a referendum, and they want Fudan University. The Fudan University case does not yet exist in a form suitable for public debate, and then decisions can be made when there are plans, clear financial conditions, and this is expected to be another year and a half. Please accept my answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-124	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-125	I'm sorry you didn't take your time, because we didn't learn much from yesterday, and I have more questions. Did the Hungarian foreign affairs act in a rather combative manner, after the Chinese embassy wrote such things as defiling China in the speech of Gergely Christmas, when he said words such as, "Tienanmen Square Demo", "Democracy" or "Human Rights" or "Speaking is full of ideological prejudices, hostility and confrontation," serious interference in China's internal affairs, and deliberate destruction of the friendly, beneficial relationship between the two countries; we strongly protest and condemn this. So the highest directly elected Hungarian public-law dignity, the mayor, was attacked by the Chinese embassy. They will act against this, and I would be very curious to hear this; and also that the Fidesz government so warily fighting the persecution of Christians in China will continue to fight the persecution of Christians by supporting the name of the street of Bishop Xie Si-kuang, who served 28 years in the prison of the Chinese dictatorship. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In Budapest.
u2021-06-07-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you once again that the matter that you have brought here in the context of immediate questions between the walls of this House does not exist in a form suitable for public debate, so I would like to confirm that to you again. [[16.10]] If there are plans, clear financial conditions, there can be a substantive debate on this issue. As far as this is concerned, we may agree that this case does not help China and Hungary to cooperate, of course, if someone wants to cooperate with each other. If you do not want to cooperate, you can raise questions that are more likely to poison or worsen the relationship. If we think that there are issues that will help the two countries to cooperate, then we should bring them to the walls of Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-128	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Róbert Simon, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: When will the digital Covid19 card be used throughout Europe? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner named Minister of State for his reply. Thank you very much for indicating that you accept the person you are responding to. Mr Simon Robert Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Not only in Europe, but throughout the world, our country is at the forefront of the number of vaccines for the prevention of coronal virus infection. Thanks to our successful defense, we have defeated the third wave, protected jobs, and are close to returning to our normal lives. However, the consequences of the pandemic can only be contained through comprehensive European response measures. In the heart of the continent, Hungary has closed its borders among the first, acquired effective Eastern vaccines, donated protection tools and vaccines to those in need, and we have also acted proactively with the introduction of protection certificates, taking into account that in the future, even in the case of a common EU regulation, it will meet requirements that go beyond our borders. The EU Covid-19 card will also contain a QR code in digital and printed versions, which will be provided with basic information and digital stamps to verify its authenticity. This will be accepted throughout the EU thanks to the agreement of the Member States, so those who receive it will be exempted from the epidemiological restrictions and will be free to travel within the Union if they have received the type of vaccination accepted by the European Medicines Agency. In addition, Hungary has already concluded bilateral agreements with 12 countries on the mutual acceptance of protection certificates, and countries may accept any type of vaccine in their competence. The favourable epidemiological data in the motherland can give rise to confidence in this regard, as well as the WHO's acceptance of the emergency use of Sinopharm vaccine and the authorisation of Sputnik V by the European Medicines Agency is under way, as the Bavarian Prime Minister urges. The Hungarian protective application has been available since 13 May 2021 and will include the type and time of the vaccinations, so it will be suitable to replace the ID. On this basis, I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, when will the digital Covid-19 card be used throughout Europe.
u2021-06-07-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I would like to ask that you try to follow the time frame more closely. As I said, the answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the government's effective vaccination plan, we can say that we have broken the third wave. As long as Brussels failed to supply the vaccine purchases, delivered a sufficient quantity of vaccine in time, and still obscured their concluded contracts, the government, with the Eastern, Russian and Chinese vaccines, has achieved that today there is more than 54 percent of the graft in Hungary and has made these contracts public in the spirit of transparency. Hungary is the only one in the European Union where there is no shortage of vaccines, but there is an abundance of vaccines, and we can say that the epidemic is over for those who have been vaccinated. With the Hungarian Immunity Certificate, we can restart life at home. Dear House, At the end of May, following lengthy negotiations, the European Parliament and the Council agreed on a draft regulation on the digital green certificate in order to create the conditions for safe travel between Member States. Following the approval of the Parliament and Council, the system of EU cards will be set up from 1 July. The digital version of the Hungarian certificate of protection against the corona virus is already in operation. The application will comply with the European digital Covid certification rules. The digital version of the protection certificate will include, inter alia, the date of the first and second vaccination and the type of vaccine in accordance with EU rules. Hungary is well ahead of Europe with the high grafting rate and the extension of the Hungarian Immunity Certificate. The draft regulation on the EU digital green certificate states that all vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency must be accepted and that everything else can be accepted. At the same time, the government has already concluded bilateral agreements on the mutual acceptance of protection and vaccinations with 12 countries. We are waiting for Brussels to reach this level, but we will conclude further bilateral agreements in the meantime. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Robert Simon. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It also shows that Hungary has really done everything in its power, and this is confirmed by the figures that we are there today in Hungary, that more than 5 million 300 thousand citizens have received at least their first vaccination, and in fact citizens can choose between vaccinations. It is also gratifying that Hungary is also at the forefront of the Covid IDs at European level, as Hungary is certainly able to provide the technical background for this, and it can be seen here that at least Brussels is at present in comparison with Hungary, or the centre of the European Union is lagging behind, since the use of the IDs is not yet fully widespread, and we have to wait a few weeks or months to do so. However, it is gratifying that we have already concluded an agreement with 12 countries, which is extremely important from a tourist point of view. I also raised the question primarily because it was regularly raised in my constituency, in reception hours and at the level of various interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The countries with which the government has concluded bilateral agreements accept all vaccines recognised in Hungary. Let us not forget that the press continues to fight hard to ensure that anti-vaccination sounds undermine the confidence in vaccines. The left will continue to do everything in its power to make a political issue of vaccinations, including discrimination against responsible people who have done their best to protect their health and others and who have been vaccinated. It is important to stress that the Hungarian protection card will be suitable for the replacement of the EU green card, and there will be complete travel leave in Uno for those who have been vaccinated, unlike rumors of all kinds. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "When will we be informed?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán has asked for a reply. I respectfully ask yes, thank you very much, Mr President, that you accept the person who is responding. Congressman Gergely Kálló, please.
u2021-06-07-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Although they tried to hide it, they discussed it behind closed doors in Székesfehérvár, in a fidesz narrow circle, but now they have a wide range of press, thus giving social publicity to the unjust plan that you want to make against Dunaújváros and the surrounding settlements by creating a special economic zone. This is the revenge of Dr. Krisztián Molnár, President of the constituency, and Lajos Dorkota, who has repeatedly taken over, with which they would like nothing more than to group the trade tax into Székesfehérvár, so that they can redistribute it as they please, thus striking out by the peaceful majority and serving some of their subjects, despite the fact that the current system of payments is fair, for the benefit of 51,000 people. Your proposal will only help 14,500 people, which is the argument that you want to give me back fair and square. But why would it be unfair to take the tax that comes in from Dunaújváros? [[16.20]] The investment in Iváncsa and Rácalmás would have been unimaginable without the money from the Dunaújváros being invested. The distribution of the trade tax has thus been the subject of legal contracts, which you now seek to break up with the local governments and the people in a spirit of vengeance. They do so without informing the inhabitants or the mayor of the largest cities in the district, Tamás Pintér. So I ask you: when do you intend to inform Tamás Pintér, mayor of Dunaújváros, of your plan? The priority economic zone will come true, and when will it be realized? It is also necessary to be informed, because, if it is implemented now, the budget of Dunaújváros must be redesigned, for example, because of the HUF 500 million minus, which is expected with the implementation of the plan. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-07-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I understand your words correctly, it is, in fact, that you are bringing a local conflict in connection with the investment in Fejér County to Parliament. I think you're misleading voters because you're talking about anyone taking anything from Dunaújváros or Fejér County. In fact, it is a matter of very serious economic developments in Fejér County. Very serious investments are taking place, and the tax revenues resulting from this will serve the Fejér County. The proportion of county, regional or local self-governments directly elected, with democratic legitimacy, is not yet decided on, and negotiations are under way. By the way, you would be right or justified if the situation in Dunaújváros was not stable. But from the numbers in front of me, it is quite clear that Dunaújváros' management is working well. In terms of tax power, the city is in a particularly good position. Its assets are significant: In 2019 it had HUF 15 billion, HUF 16 billion in 20 and HUF 17 billion in 21 in a commercial bank account, Treasury. The city's budget balance is either sufficient or close to it year after year; it has a specific surplus according to the balance adjusted for residual use. Thus, it is in a strong financial position compared to the vast majority of municipalities. It has a significant stock of funds, its debt is minimal, the amount of local tax revenue is high, its management is balanced. We welcome this government and support Dunaújváros. I can see that the total estimated resource demand of the current developments is more than HUF 38 billion. So what I can say is that we support Dunaújváros and support the development of Fejér county. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-07-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gergely Kálló has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-141	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the compliments. I'll take you home. The only thing they forget is that, despite the good economic indicators, you're doing everything you can to deprive the city of their revenue. So let's get this straight. The other thing is, I didn't get any answers to any more questions. For example, what will happen to the current contracts that have been concluded with the city and other settlements in return for the fact that Dunaújváros has provided resources for investments. Are you gonna break these contracts, or aren't you gonna break these contracts? My other specific question... and I'm not bringing up a Fejér county thing, is this draft before you. The government already has this draft. We are responsible for the fact that people even know about this project. My question is, therefore, that the special economic zone will be implemented as planned. If it is realized, when or when you wish to negotiate with Dunaújváros that you would like to take away a significant part of your business tax. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-143	Honourable Congressman, I can only repeat once more what I just said: Dunaújváros is stable, and I do not understand why, by the way, such serious, hundreds of billions of HUF developments are taking place in Fejér county, which are obviously of county significance, why it hurts you. This is a matter of support for the Fejér county voters, a question of strengthening the local economy, why does that hurt you? Why is that a problem for you? And all the more so I feel that what you're doing here week after week, you're supposed to be representing the Dunaújváros in Parliament, because it was your current left-wing ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány and, by the way, Gordon Bajnai who was the most serious problem in Dunaújváros, the Dunaferr power plant. has conducted its privatisation. During that period, during the 2002-2010 governance, there was a major structural problem and the crisis that hit the region most at the moment. So instead of speaking here in Parliament, you should consider whether it is appropriate for you to enter into an alliance with Ferenc Gyurcsány and his folk orchestra. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-07-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Promises and realities do not change the left? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey nodds.]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-145	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The measures of the Fidesz-KDNP government, the sacrifice of health workers and the collaboration of the entire Hungarian society were needed to say that today we have also managed to reduce the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic. In the one and a half year fight against the coronal virus, it became clear that the Hungarian left did not want to participate in the cooperation against the virus and their soul did not want to participate. Instead, they hid behind their irresponsible and uncredited statements and promises, that is, they did nothing more than when we experienced them during their previous government. Remember, the Gyurcsány government, then the Bajnai government, was characterized by irresponsible politicalism that each of their unfulfilled commitments was completed with two more lying promises. Today, this irresponsible politics of the left is a little lost in oblivion, so it would be good to remember and remind you of that. It was not so long ago that the left led the country into a financial collapse, leading to high unemployment, severe indebtedness, deterioration of living conditions, withdrawal of family support and social expenditure, removal of the 13th month pension and a general sense of depreciation, i.e. a sense of deprivation. That is why I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: what do you think of the left-wing irresponsible policy? What can we expect from the Gyurcsányek, knowing their previous failed government? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-07-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-147	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Well, we couldn't wait much, and we have objective data and facts to support this opinion, because in the case of the financial crisis in 2008-2009, the left-wing government was trying to deal with it with austerity, but instead it only deepened the crisis. It is well known that they believed that they had to take away the 13th month pension from more than two million pensioners, reduce the duration of the child, increase the VAT rate in a general way, tax the family allowance, take a month's wages from the entire public service sector, and push the country into full financial vulnerability by taking on the IMF's big loan, thanks to which Hungary was hit in one of the most serious ways by the financial and economic crisis in Europe. Right-wing crisis management is the total opposite, based entirely on a different philosophy of economy and society. We believe that in the event of a crisis, we must reduce the burden on businesses while reducing the tax on families, and in this context we have taken decisions over the past year. More than HUF 1000 billion of tax cuts were decided by the government, over 1.6 million families and about half a million companies were helped by the credit moratorium. [[16.30]] Klára Dobrev said in an honest moment that they managed to save the banks, not the people. We think in the opposite way. The total personal income tax exemption for people under 25 will start, the 13th month pension will be rebuilt, the tax on housing construction will be reduced, the renovation programme will be launched, something that has not been done before, and resources for wage increases and infrastructure development in health care will be available to an unprecedented extent. We think it's the right way to go, that's the way to go. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-149	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for restoring the support previously taken by the Left from all of us by means of the Orbán government's measures and restoring people's faith in the future. It is a huge thing that today our country is one of the fastest growing countries in the Union. Wage increases, the restoration of social security, job creation, the introduction of the 13th month pension, and the establishment of the family support system all indicate that it is worth pursuing a thoughtful, modern real policy. Today we have the chance to be among the winners of the new era after the plague. Let us not lose all this because of further irresponsible promises made by the left. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Let me give you just one example: speaking before today's agenda, what do we hear from Ferenc Gyurcsány? To protect and even praise the introduction of hospital daily and visiting fees as an important strategic goal. So it is quite clear that, after 2022, Ferenc Gyurcsány's proposal to return this is a fair and just idea. We think it would have caused a terrible human tragedy if there was a hospital allowance and a visitation fee in the middle of the coronal virus. Compared to this, we spend HUF 2884 billion, HUF 1700 billion more on health care, we believe in wage increases and infrastructure development. It is quite clear that, in 2022, the politics on the left will knock on the doors before 2010. The Hungarian people won't let them in. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What can health and social workers expect? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think that the last year has been a very difficult time for all of us since the outbreak, and I think that we can also agree that this is particularly true for health workers and social workers, who have, in the last six months, especially in the six months behind us, when the second and third waves almost came together, have done very hard work, have saved lives, while maintaining the health system. He is pleased that the government accepted the MSZP proposal last year and was able to provide a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000 for healthcare workers. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved today in the area of social workers, despite our repeated requests, and despite our motion to Parliament. Last week, the government made a promise, or at least that the government was examining the question of giving them extra leave for the stressful period that has affected health workers both physically and mentally and spiritually in the last six months. That's when several people from the health care community approached me that this would be a nice gesture, and they would be happy to do so, but the big thing is that according to the Health Care Service Act, there are five thousand people who have left the field from March, and no matter how much they want to take leave, they probably can't take this freedom, and if they can't use it anymore, they might expect the government to compensate for it financially. So the question was what health workers could expect. On the one hand, do you really get such extra freedom because of this serious stressful period that is behind them, and if you receive it, you will have the opportunity to take this freedom out, and if you do not have the opportunity to take this freedom, will you receive financial compensation? I would also like to ask you on the social worker's surface how you will receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-06-07-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-07-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it would be good to always talk about those involved in the defence from the left-wing benches, in the tone of respect, because, indeed, today it has been revealed several times that it is much richer, much richer, much more peaceful XX. Hungary's hospitals were better able to defend themselves against the epidemic than countries with centuries of history. Everyone's been treated, everyone's been treated, everyone's got a bed, everyone's got a ventilator, everybody's got supplies, everybody's got medicine. They tried to do what they could for patients with coronal viruses in hospitals who worked there. That's why I should thank them. Not what your partner, Lajos Korózs, did, who said that the doctors sent patients home after nine out of ten patients died in their homes. He accused doctors of being sent home to patients who really needed hospitalization. I am glad that you have made a different voice here than Lajos Korózs, and have recognised their activities from January to February last year until now, since they were very brave. That's why the government decided to provide a special allowance of HUF 500,000, and I don't think you can say another country around the world that would have decided to double the pay of doctors during the coronal virus epidemic. Allow me to give you an example of this: the doctor who had a basic wage of 197 thousand forints in the last year of your administration, a doctor with a working relationship of about 20 years does not have the allowances and other items on it, he has already earned HUF 510 thousand in 2019; now he earns HUF 1 million 44 thousand this year, and at the end of the lifting process he earns HUF 1 million 491,000. So instead of a salary of 197 thousand forints in 2010, in 2023 his income will be 1 million 491,000 forints. This was also an important step, but it will also be an important step, the details of which will be developed later by the government on how to provide rest time for health workers after the outbreak. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, health workers have had a very difficult time, and we can only speak here in Parliament in the voice of thanks. It is not my duty to protect Lajos Korózs, I think that you will do so, but the MSZP has done everything in its power, together with our fellow parties, to help health workers and their work. I should thank them from here, too. Mr Secretary of State has explained very well, and I am pleased that we have accepted our proposal, by the way, we were the first to put forward a one-time allowance of HUF 500 000 for healthcare workers, but it actually meant three seconds for those questions that I actually asked. So I'd like to do it again. What can health and social workers expect? Do you have any extra freedom? If they get extra leave, can they take it out? If they can't make it out, will they receive financial compensation or compensation? Will the workers in the social sector also receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000? Answer this, please.
u2021-06-07-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am shocked that, even today, you are defending Lajos Korózs and his Kamuvideo, honourable Member, and you say that it was the help of health workers on the part of the MSZP that a non-medical worker, a paramedic, was placed on camera, saying that he is an ambulanceman, while not an ambulanceer, was not in any medical staff records, and accused medical workers of false facts. You guys have a strange appreciation for the term "help." So was it also helpful for you to take a month's wages from all doctors and nurses around 2008? Or I do not know what the word "help" in the dictionary means, honourable Member. As I have mentioned to you, how this extra rest for health workers will be realized will be developed later by the government and will be able to publish it later. Now it is certain that the government's intention is to raise the wages of health care workers, which will also be achieved by doctors, and I have given you examples of this. [[16.40]] In the case of nurses, there will be a 30 percent increase in wages in January, and in addition, the details of the additional ones, as I said, will be developed later by the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 16 hours and 39 minutes, and we've reached the end of Question Time. Now we're gonna ask the questions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: When will the beekeepers finally hear their cry for help? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Sándor Farkas will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-161	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The domestic beekeepers are terribly desperate, and if you've spoken to one of them in the past few days, you will certainly not be able to disprove that. Last year was unqualified for them, they were able to bring the worst average of many decades because of the extremely unfortunate weather conditions, and this year doesn't look too good for them. In addition, the previous supplies, for those who had them, have run out. The worst were families whose only source of income was this, and indeed this winter, as I have already said, did not favor them. On the one hand, it was long, so the bee families suffered more, and on the other hand the spring frosts came at the worst possible time, and about 90 percent of the acacia was frozen. The post-flowering is taking place recently, but we know that the main flowering would have given most of the nectar on the acacia tree. And speaking of acacia, I have to highlight this specifically because the most important source of income for domestic beekeepers is acacia. This is now the fifth catastrophic season of acacia. But we can't pass the poisoning without saying a word. I gave an example to the Secretary of State in Baranya County in the description, where it was also found that many farmers have already used banned substances in such cases, which is sad because it is not only about bees and the protection of pollinators, but also through groundwater these irresponsible producers are endangering animal and human life. And I know that you will defend yourself with the international market, and by providing thousands of forints per hive to beekeepers, but let's face it, it will take a lot more than that if you really believe that Hungarian honey and beekeeper families must be saved in Hungary. If they do not do something immediately, then we will walk in the same way as pepper, onion, garlic, raspberry and countless other fruit and vegetables, which are traditionally thought to be domestic fruit and vegetables, but because of irresponsible policy, we now need to import them. Don't let the Hungarian beekeepers disappear!
u2021-06-07-162	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I welcome the Member's question, which draws attention to the difficult situation of beekeepers, but I find it deeply outrageous that he wishes to make the government responsible for the difficulties caused by weather conditions that have been extremely unfavourable and unpredictable for years. The Government pays particular attention to the bee-keeping sector. I just want to confirm that. New information that we are trying to develop a new support system today is the result of this morning's consultation [[Zoltán Magyar intervenes.]] But not for your sake. As an example, I would like to mention the national programme of Hungarian bee-keeping, with more than 3 billion forints of funding coming from the bee-keeping sector. In addition, as you mentioned, other extra subsidies are available to beekeepers. I would like to emphasise that we are taking decisive action to filter out crops that have been mistreated by plant protection products. Where farmers' plant protection problems are revealed, our authorities act with the utmost rigour. There is also a need to address anomalies in the honey market, which we have already expressed decisively before the Commission on several occasions, but it must be said that these negotiations have not always come to fruition. At the same time, I would like to note that this bee-legging program, which is taking place here in Budapest, is ridiculously professional, and I would like to stress it here, because it is not a bee-breeding, it is a bad sea, and at the moment bee-familyes in Budapest are not usually in the residents, like in a housing estate. So I consider it a downgrading of the beekeeper society and the people involved in beekeeping that the metropolitan leadership intends to be a beekeeper in public areas that are bad seas. I must reject this professionally, even politically. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gyula Molnár, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Why did he have to hand over the foster family network in the capital to the church? Is this gonna make it better for the kids? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer your question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, There is a trend that we have always criticised, and that is that they are increasingly centralising everything, increasingly removing powers and resources from municipal authorities. A few years ago, this happened in a large part of the social area, and it happened here in the entire child protection system that the state took it. You know, Secretary of State, we always have the important point that the closer the decision is to those who are affected, the cheaper and probably the more effective it is to make a decision. You do not follow this policy; your soul is on it, but once again, we do not agree with that. And then the news came a month ago, which is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible, that the territorial child protection service in Budapest will go to the Szeged-Csanádi Church as a maintenance service. It is not quite clear that it affects about 130 foster parents and 300 children, what the logic is that such a county bishop may think that this task can be done in many parts of the country, especially in such a special place as Budapest. They tell foster parents that they can say that they won't pass, but then they have to ask for government permission, and the license is 60 days. You do realize, Mr. Secretary, that it's impossible at this point, because you can't have a child unattended for 60 days. There is also good news, because obviously the church normative is more than the state where it is. I'm asking you, you're right, you're gonna get more money from this foster family network. You see my questions: who's good at this, why did you have to do this whole thing? If it isn't Bishop going again, could you arrange something? And the question is that more money means more money for foster parents and children. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-07-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that, as mayor, Mr President, you have also found that in ecclesiastical institutions, whether educational or social institutions, they are very conscientious in their efforts to represent and serve the interests of children and those in need. On the spot, when people are on the ground, these institutions are always recognized, church supporters are recognized, as churches have been dealing with any kind of child protection, education or health care longer than the state has existed here in the Carpathian Basin. But we know that the leader of the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, issued the anti-church password; he said that he would cancel the Vatican agreement and would not pay a penny of religious support. These are extremely irresponsible sayings, as the education of hundreds of thousands of students would be at risk; 234 thousand needy, assisted young and elderly care in social care or any other specialized or child protection care would be at risk, but the Ferenc Gyurcsánys already openly threatened to take everything away from him. This is not, however, the tone after the change of regime when a bishop is openly threatened by a party called the Democratic Coalition, DK, in an open statement, to confiscate the Bishop's fortune. But we have seen that before 2010, there were examples of these subsidies when they tried to cross church institutions where they could. Honourable Congressman, If you are familiar with the activities of either the dioceses or the St. Augusta mission, you have such extensive experience in child protection, which I think is exemplary. It's worth looking at their results. The Erzsébet camping, as you know, is already under their control; it is worth going and looking at. You can see that here hundreds of thousands of children are trying to overcome the difficulties and life for those who [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's a harder fate than it is for us to make it a little easier. I think they're worth supporting, not attacking. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.50]]
u2021-06-07-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question. It's an address. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Hidden Jenő, right, the three bodyguards in Africa? Stupid Hopkins in Igori, the stolen city, when the Iksedi sees crazy theft, whispers to his buddy Stingers that there's a lot of idiots here. I don't want to hurt you, and don't take it personally. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We don't!]] But what I can tell you is that Chunk Hopkins, if he lived here with you now, he'd probably say the same thing. For example, the case of Velodrom in Debrecen has been declared to be of high national importance, and it's just foam on the cake, because we know very well that they're planning to steal a significant part of the money for investment. Otherwise, the investment will be taken to HUF 3-4 billion, but we know that knowing you will be close to the end result, it will graze the 15 billion. And the costs of the operation, which, according to many, could amount to tens of millions of forints a year, were, of course, wasted on the city, and then we will pay for it, even though there is no revenue to be paid, because besides the fact that Lajos Kósa, former mayor, arrived in the city with a cheap 28-bike and made a career, there is no other tradition. In the meantime, of course, you don't give a penny for basic development, the panel program doesn't work, the state of our roads is pathetic, the eastern part of the city is practically isolated from downtown by the main railway track, and the east-south-eastern parts of the city have been threatened by inland water for decades. Remember? Klára Dobrev, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition, warned you for many of the last time today that the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was to be replaced. Indeed, it is not good to invest in iron and concrete for development in the first century. Of course, I understand how you feel about losing next year, and you're in a pre-end panic, and you're stealing everything that exists, but I'd like to ask you, wouldn't it be smarter to spend money in Debrecen once in a while on things that are important and important to the Debrecen? Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-170	Thank you very much. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Hungary does not currently have an indoor cycling or racing track complying with international sports association standards. In order to develop a sport with a long tradition, the government decided in 2020 to build a Velodrom and Velopark in East Hungary. Debrecen, contrary to your statement, has always played a prominent role in cycling. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. At the end of the century there were two Velodroms in Debrecen, in the 1950s, in the ninety-two thousand years, DSI, DVSC club contestants won more than a hundred championship medals, they were participants in the youth world championship, half a hundred selected frame members competed in the Debrecen jersey. At present, 25-30 percent of the Hungarian bicycle supply is provided by Debrecen, the city has been organizing the Olympics of the sport for years, and since 2014 they have been organizing an adult national championship again. The complexity of the future facility in Debrecen will be extremely attractive for the joint preparation of international training camps, training courses and contestants here, which can become the centre of supply training. It is also supported by the International Cycling Association as a regional centre. The different disciplines, the various disciplines of the Sports Association, will use them together. It will also be suitable for events and leisure programs serving the public. This track in Debrecen is built as a greenfield investment. For several years, and even after its construction, the project will also provide jobs for hundreds of people, their families with livelihoods, tax revenues and international prestige for the city of Debrecen. That's what you and Klara Dobrev don't support. And that's how you want to win the sympathy of the Debrecen. Huh, it's not gonna be easy. Who's crazy between us? Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Dare to be small!]] (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by László Földi.)
u2021-06-07-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. If the government's inadequacy has been completed and its failed decisions have led to a government strategy to save the water utility sector on the brink of collapse and to finance this task, and the detailed action plan supporting it, why has no one seen it yet, why is it being hidden, and especially why is it not being implemented? It's an address. Mr. Head of the Group, Mr. Tamás Schanda Secretary of State will answer you. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I very much hope that Mr Tamás Schanda will respond, and that we will not hear his opinion on the governments before 2010. Mr Secretary, I have been trying for a very long time to find out where the government's secret plan is for the most important public service, i.e. water supply and sanitation, the resources for the maintenance and replacement of the necessary network. So, specifically, where are these sources? The Prime Minister acknowledged, in an immediate question, that a thousand billion-dollar resource is missing beyond the existing resources and that this must be ensured by the government. Mr Prime Minister's promise has not been fulfilled, and there is no evidence of this in the European Union's recovery fund. We have looked at the budget for 2022, with only a fraction of the resources required. We have tabled amendments that would provide additional resources for maintenance and replacement work on water utility infrastructure in the order of 100 billion at national level. Your faction, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, voted no. In particular, I have also tabled amendments to support Pécs, Komló and Kozármisleny cities in order to maintain and ensure this key public service. They said no to that, too. They said no to every single suggestion we made. In particular, you're talking about some kind of foggy strategy, but I haven't met a man, a colleague, who would have seen it in substance, in detail. Where is this particular strategy, if it is really done, why is it not presented to the profession, why is it not presented to the public in detail about their meaningful action plan, and in particular why is this action plan not being implemented? Deputy Minister, since 2011, as you know, the number of failures has doubled. It is time to tell us how exactly this task will be solved, instead of desecrating governments before 2010, how this estimated amount of between 1500 billion and 3000 billion is guaranteed, which is lacking in order to ensure healthy drinking water in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, we have discussed this issue here in Parliament on several occasions. I hereby confirm to you that the government considers it a priority to ensure the sustainability and smooth functioning of the water utility service. Moreover, we are committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. Our goal is to ensure that all Hungarians get clean and healthy drinking water. The state of water utilities affects all Hungarians. By the way, we agree with you, and indeed, the number you mentioned is correct, there is a need for development in this area of about a thousand billion forints, which must be ensured in the coming years. In the coming years, we will also ensure this from domestic and EU sources. But why this situation developed is not irrelevant. I know this is embarrassing for you, Mr honourable Member, Mr Group leader, but let us not go without saying that this is due, among other things, to left-wing governments, who have misplaced these essential areas, have privatised them, and foreign companies, instead of developing and maintaining, have allowed public utilities to be destroyed, while the extra profit taken from families has been fabricated from the country. If the left comes back to power, he wants to play this game again, they want to sell these utility companies again. And you, Congressman, and you have a responsibility here, will personally assist in this political programme. I find this completely incomprehensible, as well as the fact that it did not support water utility providers in a fairer taxation. You did not vote for this in Parliament, making the situation of service providers even more difficult. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-07-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What is more important for the Ministry of Agriculture: nature conservation or NER investors? It's an address. Honourable Member, Mr Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, the Deputy Minister will answer you. There you go. You have the floor. [[17.00]]
u2021-06-07-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You must have been informed that on 26 May, the Fidesz majority of the Parliament's Committee on Sustainable Development voted against the proposal of the Great Lakes Coalition, civil society organisations, with the exception of János Bencsik, on 26 May. This proposal is exemplary because, across the country, civilians joined forces alongside Lake Balaton, near Lake Öreg in Tata, near Lake Fertő, along Lake Velencei, and along the course of the civil curiosity, they worked out a proposal that we presented to the committee, the National Assembly, without any changes. In this proposal, there are guarantees that it is no longer possible to carry a half-mountain, as they did on Lake Balaton, to destroy reeds, as they do on Lake Balaton, and to do on other lakes, to eliminate free beaches, as they do on Lake Venice, to not build a hundred-room hotel for Lake Fertő, which UNESCO would now stop, to take away the World Heritage Stamp from this area. That's why I'm asking you, as a representative of the competent minister, what you can comfort the Great Lakes Coalition with, what you can say to the civilians. Do you intend to implement, include, submit a proposal for a resolution? How many out of six do you think are eligible? What you think is not eligible, why is it not eligible? Would you be so kind as to justify it? I think that civilians deserve a meaningful answer, not that they are sweeping their proposal off the table without any justification. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-06-07-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State, Mr. Sándor Farkas, the Deputy Minister is responding. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-179	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Protecting our lakes is of paramount importance to the government. Unfortunately, we have become accustomed to the fact that the results of the proceedings conducted by professional organisations and authorities, which are intended to examine the merits of the professional questions, have failed to convince him, but I am still trying to answer them that way. Having examined the proposal of the Great Lakes Coalition, made up of more than 70 NGOs, to ensure a more secure protection of large standing waters, it can be concluded that the protection of our large lakes, which can be guaranteed without the proposed changes, is provided by legislation. The Fundamental Law states that we take responsibility for our offspring, so we protect the living conditions of generations after us by using our material, spiritual and natural resources carefully. Compliance with the Fundamental Law is a fundamental duty and duty for everyone, all of us and the government, and in this spirit, the laws in force ensure the protection of natural and cultural heritage. In the case of ongoing and planned investments, in the case of improvements, the determining authorities, intermediate bodies shall adopt their positions and take their decisions in the light of the legal requirements in force. In view of this, there is no need for a separate parliamentary resolution. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would just like to mention that the protection of our large lakes, including Lake Balaton, is so high on the part of the government and the Agricultural Ministry that an independent ministerial commissioner has been working as of May 1 to protect the life of Lake Balaton, in order to preserve water and preserve water quality, this is part of the task of the Agricultural Ministry, and cooperates with the co-organizations that are also interested in the development of Lake Balaton. Thank you for listening to my reply, and I hope that you have been persuaded by the facts. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-180	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Despite the constant attacks on the left, the Government of Hungary stands by the development? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-07-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The area of Sopron-Fertő is developing unstoppably, and one of the biggest rural tourism projects in Hungary, the development of the Fertő shore, has also begun. It is regrettable that the left, from Jobbik to DK, has put this deficiency investment on its flag and are trying to prevent this development by lying. The opposition is lyingly calling hotel investment a development that will bring joy to many families, and thanks to the numerous community functions it can finally be a cultured beach on the Hungarian side of Lake Fertő, which will end the 50 percent of the only direct waterfront section of the Hungarian side of Lake Fertő. They refer to a civil society group which is founded by Brenner Koloman, the Jobbikós, and which, led by Brenner Koloman, only represents Austrian interests, attacks a Hungarian development in every existing forum. I know, because I was born here, and I live here, that the families of Sopron are sick of having to go to Austria if they want to have a cultural lake holiday. The opposition objects to the construction of a leisure centre on the Hungarian side of Lake Fertő, but they do not protest that at least a dozen similar centres were built in Austria. They object to the fact that a parking lot is built on the beach, but they do not object to the fact that there is a 6,000-seat water park on the lake a few miles away. The development has all environmental protection, nature conservation and water permits, approved by the Hungarian Council of ICOMOS, supported by the Hungarian National Committee of the Ramsari Convention, the National Park, the World Heritage Association, supported by real NGOs who operate there and mayors. Please stop putting Austrian interests first, this is Hungary! On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State that, despite the constant attacks on the left, Hungary's Government has insisted on the development.
u2021-06-07-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, who will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2021-06-07-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary supports any investment that serves the development of an area, as is the case with the development of the Fertő coast. The cooperation agreement between Sopron County City and the Government was concluded in 2015 under the Programme. Modern Cities, which included this development. We would make up for 30 years on the basis of the needs of the locals, which makes the only water settlement on the Hungarian side of Lake Fertő a high-quality community and tourist destination. The investment will properly organize the area originally designed for tourism in accordance with the requirements of the World Heritage Site. The development is located on a world heritage site, but it is carried out in the previously artificially created and degraded water settlement in Fertőrákos, where there is no infrastructure, no accommodation, no family holiday beach and an adventure park. As you have mentioned, developments on the Austrian side are ongoing in much larger volumes. The Hungarian people also deserve to spend their free time on a modern beach, enjoy the environment and explore the wildlife of the Fertő landscape in a dignified environment in their own country. In contrast to ongoing opposition criticisms, this is not a hotel project, but a community investment in which a nature conservation training centre, a leisure centre, a sports field and promenades are also set up. Professional and real civil society associations support this development. We would also create an Ecocentrum with a 12-acre ecopark in an area where there has been an illegal landfill of reeds. In the long term, the development of Lake Fertő contributes to the preservation and worthy presentation of its world heritage and natural values. At the same time, Hungary's Government continues to support the investment in Lake Fertő with the locals and the locals. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] (Dr. Adam Steinmetz in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2021-06-07-184	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the agricultural minister a question: you have been ruling for 11 years. Why was BB not bought back, as said by Attila Móring József in 2009? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2009, before the elections, Attila Móring József said that the winery in Balatonboglár must be bought back from foreigners. Since 2010, the Fidesz government has bought back a number of foreign properties, but BB has not been successful. Or didn't they want to? Of course, you can say that because it wasn't for sale, but that's not true: some of the plant was recently sold and not purchased by the state. Dear Secretary of State, Since BB's privatisation, about 70 percent of the grapes produced on 3200 hectares of Balatonboglár wine region have left the area unprocessed. [[17.10]] The impertinent purchase price offered by the purchasers often does not even cover the cost. It is no coincidence that so many people have finished farming, even though the BB has previously processed 30,000 tons of grapes and other fruits a year, providing a safe livelihood for its 1600 workers and Somogy producers. The Chamber of Agriculture and local farmers have previously proposed the construction of a new, modern Community processing plant. Plans were made for tens of millions, but the project did not come true, and even the Tourism Agency blocked the plans from us. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why they do not issue public documents of the planned processing plant. Why was BB not bought back, as Attila Moring József said? Did you even make a bid for BB? Yes or no? And why didn't they build a vineyard for Somogy producers in Balatonboglár? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-06-07-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-187	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I could have asked the same question about the Csongrád wine region, but there are always two such purchases, the seller and the buyer. If the company didn't want to sell it and doesn't want to sell it in practice, it can't be bought. This is similar, I have one of these topics for the Csongrád wine region. Hopefully, there will also be a programme that will be announced in the coming period. I would like to point out to the producers of the wine region that the proposal for the rural development programme for the development of food processing capacities, which will be launched in June, for the processing of wine and fruit, can also be used to finance particularly large-scale developments for farmers. This could be a working tool to support local development needs. Several sectoral decisions, proposals and not least programmes have been made since 2012, but, perhaps even more importantly, in the day-to-day interest enforcement, vine producers have been able to establish producer integration organisations since last year, in which they can organise a better market position vis-à-vis purchasers, with a larger commodity base, more effectively. I am aware that such an organization would like to be created by the vine producers in the region, and I think these are the means with which these smaller, although perhaps not really the correct term, is that smaller, but these vineyards, these districts can be saved. But here is a very important issue, the integration and cooperation of vine producers, so that these plants can survive and rebuild in a competitive situation. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-188	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. It follows now that the 1998 XXVI on the rights and equal opportunities of persons with disabilities will follow. Act and CXXV of 2009 on Hungarian Sign Language and the Use of Hungarian Sign Language. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Presentation by Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz, and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz, Members T/15981. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask Mr Gergely Tapolczai to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-189	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposed to the Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities and to the Hungarian Sign Language and the Law on the Use of Hungarian Sign Language was adopted unanimously by the People's Welfare Committee, so I trust that tomorrow every faction will support our presentation. After the adoption, the possibility can be opened not only from high school, but also from preschool education to children with hearing impairments, so that they can apply for interpretation on the basis of an additional watch frame, and from high school they can apply for interpretation in several hours, with a higher watch frame, and we will also provide extra hours for deaf blinds. The Minister for Social Affairs is hereby authorised to regulate in a regulation the professional and examination requirements relating to the training of dogs assisting the blind and the visually impaired, as well as training of trainers. The Minister for Social Affairs is authorised to do the same for deaf interpreters and sign language interpreters, so he can regulate training and examination requirements in a regulation there. I trust that this proposal will be supported by all the factions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-07-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that you will have 13 minutes during the debate for further speeches. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the Government now or later in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I would like to inform you that no one has applied for a statement within the time frame on the agenda. Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Group leader, LMP Group, has applied for a speech in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Typically, there are very tough blade changes between the two sides here in Parliament, and I think that this will also be the characteristic of today's summary debates, and we can say that disagreement rather than consensus will characterize these debates today. However, I felt it important to speak very briefly at this item on the agenda and to indicate that this idea of the Member as rapporteur, that he was confident that we would be able to vote with broad support, will not depend on the LMP fraction. So this proposal will be supported by the LMP. Here the petitioner is concerned with issues that, I think, are extremely important to all of us, and we must do everything we can to achieve these goals. We see it as such a proposal, so we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me now. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. I will ask Mr Gergely Tapolczai to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws concerning party foundations follows. The submission submitted by Mr István Bajkai, Mr Fidesz, Member T/16222. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Bajkai if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he does not wish to speak now. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak, Secretary of State Völner. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Völner, Deputy Minister, indicates that he does not wish to speak. I will ask the fellow Members if someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Group Leader, LMP. [[17.20]]
u2021-06-07-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman Bajkai is present on behalf of the authors. I can't speak as positively as I did in the recent bill. We can say that this proposal does not fit in any way with the spirit and purpose system for which party foundations have been created. Unfortunately, we see the danger that this is going in the direction that, by the way, is typical of the government, for the last ten years of governance, that they will bring about an increasingly opaque operation. We think that we should make legislative changes in the exact opposite direction, that we should aim in the other direction, so that Hungarian citizens can see as much as possible how they manage public funds, whether they are party foundations or parties. The proposal itself reminds us a little bit of the philosophy of public-use trust funds. It's like it's stuck at Fidesz to hide everything in these little foundations, and once the public money's in there, it's gonna be as easy as possible to manage it. This is in all respects contrary to what the LMP considers responsible management and management of public funds. This proposal will be voted against by the LMP. We do not see in any way how far this would lead to the implementation of the originally declared targets of the party foundations in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. Or are you going to tell me the answer? You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, A brief comment was just made on the proposed amendment to the functioning of the foundations and in the context of business activity. Although my honourable speaking fellow Member has not actually presented a legal or professional reason to this House, I would like to say this, but it is also clear from the draft law, it is not a question of the fact that the educational activities of foundations established by parties are a rule of law solution, a fully-accepted institution in the Member States of law, not only in Hungary, but throughout the world. Nor can it be called into question that all this activity contributes to the rule of law, contributes to the construction of democracy, and, not least, through education and scientific work, to the transfer of wider political knowledge. I think it's worth it. If we look at the operation of other foundations, which are not formed by parties, there is economic enterprise, which is complementary, and is only complementary in this bill, it is actually a natural function of foundations; as is the natural function of complementary economic enterprise, which does not endanger the original purpose, in general, in the case of civil society organisations. Although no arguments have been put forward in this regard, I can safely say that the foundation created by the parties has received no more, there have been no less licenses than there have been for the foundations or civil society organisations today. He also made a criticism of transparency, an observation by my honourable fellow Member, although he did not add any more serious legal ammunition to this. This bill also states that the results of the business activity and the accounting records of this activity are to be kept. This is for transparency. This is also a solution for the rule of law, and similar solutions are applied in all advanced legal systems, and there is no difference in this. I think that the bill should be broadly supported, and I am very sorry that there is no basis for the criticism of the term. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2021-06-07-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'd like to ask Mr. Deputy Minister if you'd like to speak to me. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No, thank you.]] The Deputy Minister doesn't want to speak. In closing the debate, I think you have already said your thoughts, so obviously he does not wish to speak now either. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports for the submission of amendments to the compulsory cancellation procedure and the winding-up procedure and related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/16205. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to compulsory cancellation proceedings and winding-up proceedings and related acts T/16205. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill fundamentally changes the compulsory cancellation procedures based on the practical experience of recent years. Under the rules in force, compulsory cancellation is ordered by the company court if the company is declared terminated or if the winding-up has not been completed within three years or if the company has been terminated without legal successor and there is no place for winding-up. This bill would bring about a reform of forced cancellation procedures. Often, companies make use of forced removal because it is the most convenient, simple and cheap alternative. To close this loophole, the proposal introduces a specific levy on the conduct of the procedure, so that the court does not cancel the company as a public service. The proposal leaves only small-value cases in the forced cancellation case. If a total claim of HUF 400,000 is reported against the company, or the company has assets and claims against this asset, the company's withdrawal from the economy will continue as liquidation proceedings. In the winding-up proceedings, the liquidator shall act against the managing officer or members and shall comply with the accounting and tax obligations. Dear House, The bill also significantly alters the relationship between forced cancellation and liquidation. If the company is cancelled in forced cancellation, either there was no claim for creditors, or it was an amount below 400 thousand HUF, which the prohibited members are obliged to pay to the creditor. Therefore, creditors are not worse off than they would have been in the event of winding up. If the company has assets, 400 thousand forints or above, and there are creditors' claims, the company will be liquidated. If the company's claims reach HUF 400,000, it will also be liquidated. It is therefore important that small-value procedures remain in the forced cancellation business, companies with major assets or debts are removed from the economy in liquidation proceedings. Dear Parliament, It is important that if the company restores its legal function and pays its debts due, it will be given the opportunity to request the termination of the forced cancellation. This is possible for 90 days from the start of the procedure. A number of important procedural rules and changes could be highlighted from the bill before us, which are almost without exception a means of ensuring the cleanliness of economic life and the protection of creditors. The proposal makes it clear that the forced cancellation procedure is not a public service that companies can use free of charge as a means of eliminating the company's successor. At the same time, it is important that companies that can continue to operate for the protection of the economy and for the protection of the workplace will be able to terminate the procedure by means of the proposal. I ask this House to support this proposal with its votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[17 .30]]
u2021-06-07-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I'm gonna ask if someone wants to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary, Deputy Minister, you indicate that you do not wish to respond to the Commission's speech. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/15989. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask Mr Attila Steiner, State Secretary, if he would like to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group.
u2021-06-07-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, During the general debate, I expressed our views on certain matters and asked questions. I said that we do not consider nuclear energy to be green, cheap, or safe, and I also pointed out that it is a very serious challenge in relation to the concrete proposal, since the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste has not yet been resolved anywhere in the world. The Secretary of State replied to some of the Norse examples. The Secretary of State knows precisely that there have been decisions here for the most advanced projects, as well as judicial decisions that have demonstrated that there is no technology that is entirely reliable. So no one has actually been able to offer a professional alternative to deep-geological storage, but at the same time they have not been able to provide an alternative to insulation, packaging and storing radioactive waste and spent fuel itself, which is guaranteed not only for tens of thousands of years, but also for hundreds of years, to safely block these extremely dangerous substances. There is a problem here too in Hungary, and here the issue of financing is on the agenda. I asked the Secretary of State what the challenge was, so how much will it cost to decommission Paks I and permanently place existing radioactive waste and spent fuel. We can see a number of professional estimates, starting at 1700 billion, so we can only read significantly higher professional estimates, and if we look at when it gets there, say, Paks I., so the currently functioning blocks that we need to start final placement, decommissioning and final placement, we can say that it is worrying about the current situation of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. What's the guarantee? Now there's a change that we can say is positive in itself. But what is the guarantee that the payments will increase by the power plant to the extent that it actually covers these costs? What answer can the government give when they cannot even get here in the process of authorising new nuclear power stations to say a fixed, concrete amount of money at all, what it will cost? So what will the disposal cost, and what will it cost to dispose of the waste permanently? But maybe now... I'm not so optimistic anymore, but maybe there's a number, say, the Secretary of State, and he's also giving us some kind of information that, compared to the situation we've seen so far, the nuclear power plant is only paying a fraction of what's needed in the fund, the Secretary of State is giving us some kind of information about what's going to change. I have one more question. Last week I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán an immediate question, where I told him, and I reminded him again that in 2015 he made a very, very clear commitment and a clear promise to Pécs and Baranya; he said that there would be no such object without the consent of the people in the region. Congressman Csaba Nagy is also here, thank God, one of the relevant parliamentary representatives of the region. Compared to the fact that the Prime Minister made such a clear promise in 15 and thus acknowledged that he had the right to give a specific opinion to the region, including Pécs, or even the city of Szentlőrinc, in order to think of the Member's constituency, no one has asked the population of the region since then. Moreover, the nuclear law was amended in such a way that it was even excluded from its legal possibility that these municipalities would participate in this procedure. So, I think they've limited the impact area of such a nuclear object to 500 meters, which is quite shocking. So since this promise has been made by the Prime Minister and the population of the region has not been asked, about HUF 8 billion has been used for these research projects since then. And what we do know is that this job, so researching the potential location of a future deep geology storage facility, takes decades, and we also know it's extremely expensive. So I don't get it, the government's so busy in time? So you want to continue to waste time as a resource by not deciding clearly now whether this region is taking you in at all from a social point of view? And we're talking about the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, and we're talking about how eight billion people are going to go to a research that everyone is enveloping, because they know exactly how Pécs is going to say no to this project. Gyula Fichtinger, Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office, left a few weeks ago, admitted at a public hearing in Bodan that it was really visible to the authorities about the great protest, the absolutely legitimate protest that had been made about the proximity of the nuclear cemetery, and was able to reply specifically that he had transmitted this problem to the government. What will the government do with this problem? 'Cause apparently nothing. Since the Prime Minister's reply was not very reassuring, he did not explain why the Pécs were deceived and why, if he had promised, they did not ask the population, but the Prime Minister mentioned some rather strange plans for re-use of waste and fuel. We know there's a procedure like this, a retrocation procedure, but otherwise it's extremely dangerous. After that, and say that spent fuel will be transported to Russia, and there they will try, as the Prime Minister said, to extract from it what can and will be used again, a highly hazardous waste, refrocation waste, which, under international law, will only have to be permanently disposed of by Hungary. Therefore, the Prime Minister has not given an answer, the radioactive waste, the high-activity waste, must also be permanently disposed of by Hungary because of the commitment made. At the same time, we continue to see the government going blind on a road like this, which they know exactly how it's going to end. When does the government get there, is this at all on the Ministry's agenda to reevaluate that this is not a socio-economic area and try to re-evaluate the vastly ten, nearly twenty, geologically and technically possible districts in this way and issue instructions for researching alternative sites? Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-06-07-200	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to respond. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor as rapporteur.
u2021-06-07-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure the long-term viability of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, which is a separate state fund. Unfortunately, there has been an interest market environment where the value of this fund has started to decrease, and by recognising this and changing the various formulas, we would like to ensure exactly what Mr Keresztes also mentions, that in the long term there is sufficient funding to ensure that nuclear waste is managed and that there is sufficient resources to decommission the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. In view of the fact that neither a separate amendment has been tabled by its Members nor an amendment from the Economic side, I am confident that the honourable Members and gentlemen can support the Government's proposal, which, I would also like to stress once again that it aims at preserving the value of the funds in the fund. Allow me to respond briefly to the proposals made by Mr Crusade. I must reiterate to the Member that we have a completely different opinion on the role of nuclear power. I believe that achieving the 2050 climate targets is not possible without the use of nuclear power. Hungary is not entirely alone in this opinion, there are many other Member States where simply, if nuclear energy were not used, these climate neutral objectives would be completely unrealistic. [[17.40]] I think that the Member also knows very well that we have not defined it in our national programme, and we have not yet decided where this research project is going to take place, which is currently being mapped. And then basically, when we are at that stage, Parliament will decide where to implement this project. So I think everyone will be asked, and the Parliament itself will be able to say amen to this program. And yes, the question of time is, of course, important, but the issue of nuclear safety is also important, and I think that time should not be at the expense of nuclear safety. So here, you can only go forward with a very well-prepared project, but you have to be able to do all the research, and that takes time. So I would like to reassure the Member that the Member will not be left out of this decision, and this House will make the decision when we are at the stage of how to proceed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to improve living conditions for single-parent families and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/16203. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws to improve living conditions for single-parent families T/16203. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 32 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is an amendment to the laws currently in force to the aims of protecting families, along which many parents who have left themselves to raise their children can enforce their rights to child support more effectively. The amendments set out in the proposal will help the situation of single-parent families by speeding up procedures for the establishment of child support and for the recovery of the child, as well as by increasing the effectiveness of the enforcement of the interests, which may be accompanied by more favourable legal conditions for the advance payment of child support in the future. Allow me to draw attention to some of the tools that want to help the situation of these families. This is to increase the effectiveness of civil procedure rules and child support lawsuits. In particular, the proposal excludes the possibility of further written litigation in order to speed up the lawsuit for the holding of a minor child and significantly shortens the time limit for submitting a written defence. In the defence, the party shall indicate his/her monthly net income, the details of the other body or bodies that are paying his/her employer or income to him/her. This includes the proposal to remedy a practical problem when, despite its maintenance capacity, it fails to comply with its maintenance obligation. It therefore allows the court, in the framework of ex officio proof, to seek out the status of the maintenance debtor, his employer or other person or organisation who has paid him income. This is also an element in the proposal, which requires the court to inform the party of the possibility of a direct judicial call, even if the person receiving the salary or other income is obliged to pay alimony by order of temporary measure. Other measures or targeted packages simplify the rules on judicial enforcement. In particular, where the enforcement procedure is suspended on the ground that the debtor does not have any assets that can be seized and so the claim is irrecoverable, the enforcement may be continued if it is likely that the debtor has assets that can be seized and sold. The proposal allows the executioner to continue at the request of the applicant for enforcement, even without the likelihood of seizure of the property. Such a further element is that the official transfer order is issued once by the executioner and may be re-submitted at the request of the enforcement seeker if the official transfer order has not, or has only partially, resulted in a result due to a lack of collateral. The proposal allows for the issuing of an official transfer order in the event of a lack of collateral to take place ex officio and, in the case of a child maintenance claim, even if the applicant for enforcement has not requested it, several times in order to recover the claim. Additional element: the amount received in the implementation procedures must be met in particular by taking into account a specific exception to the implementation cost in the case concerned. In the case of child support claims, the proposal provides as an exception that the implementation costs may be met in these enforcement cases once the claim for enforcement has been fully met. The third package of measures is the state advance on child support fees. In this context, let me mention some important elements. The social entry income limit will be abolished by the draft law, with a maximum of three months of irrecoverability instead of the current six-month period. The guardianship authority shall suspend the advance payment of child support or the advance payment of child support if the rate of performance or recovery exceeds 80 per cent of the basic amount. That's 50 percent right now. The entry income limit for entitlement will be abolished and the advance child support rate will rise to 30% of the minimum wage, which is currently HUF 50 220. This has been 14 250 forints, so it will rise nearly three times. In view of all this, I call for the support of my fellow Members for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-07-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, as rapporteur, to speak on behalf of the Government. Here you go. [[Robert Zsigó: In the end.]] Later in the debate, Mr Secretary of State indicated. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-205	Mr President, Dear House, I am trying to take advantage of the calmer moments and to share a few professional comments on the proposal. I've been thinking a lot about this since the general debate phase. Achieving easier access to maintenance fees could be a common goal, which I think everyone can support regardless of political party standing, which could therefore be part of a national minimum. At the same time, as regards the general debate, I was very surprised that we had long debates here mainly on the pro-government side, arguing about 50 percent in favour of the 80 percent transposition and the upper limit of the amount, and I still see that, of course, these borders are moving towards the right direction, and let us not debate the good intentions behind this, but I still find it incomprehensible why the government does not want to settle certain life situations and why the legislator does not want to settle. [[17.50]] We meet a lot of families, obviously not among the luckiest social classes, where the two-month delay, the one-month delay in alimony, also causes serious problems and puts the family register in an unmanageable position. So I understand here that the conditions are changing in a positive direction, and we don't have to wait for the six-month delay, but it's enough that if you're three months behind who didn't pay, at the same time I'd like to tell you that in a very, very many families, a few weeks' delay also creates an inextricable situation. So Jobbik's proposal is simple, and I have also tabled an amendment on this subject: let us look at the situation of the families concerned, in any delay the Hungarian state, the taxpayers, the budget must advance the alimony that the parent who raised the child could not obtain, give this to the family concerned without any obstacles, any other conditions and any delays, and then, of course, it is a debt that must be paid by the person who is responsible for the payment, so who should have paid this alimony in the first place or sent it to the child's educator, but afterwards, Hungary should validate this, enforce the state. It's a much simpler system. I understand that it would cost a little more, so it would consume some more budget resources, but we find this manageable in the knowledge of the budget. Since we are living in grace classes here, I do not want to bring here a lot of irritating items from the budget, at the expense of which we feel that it would be a good idea to spend it in advance of unpaid alimony payments. I would also not like to calculate the percentage of the Budapest-Belgrade investment that we are talking about is probably less than 1 percent. [[To Róbert Zsigó:]] I wish Mr. Secretary of State well, because it was bad to watch him hit you from here, I'm telling you honestly. I would also not like to calculate whether we are talking about the amount of credit received for Fudan, the Chinese university, but again we are discussing the amount below 1 per cent that we should actually transfer to the Hungarian families in difficulty, as these demands will then become collectible to those who have not paid or contributed to the cost of raising and caring for their children. So I appreciate the increase from 50 percent to 80 percent, and I also appreciate that the upper limit is moving from the previous 14 thousand to 50 thousand forints. At the same time, I would not complicate this system too much: the Hungarian state must advance all unpaid alimony payments. I could also give a long description of the difficult situation of families not in the upper middle class, but of families for whom every month the daily allowance or the clothing of children is a problem to be solved, which often becomes an unfulfilled task. It has also been said today that the price of certain types of food for fruit and vegetables is expected to increase by 30 percent in the near future, even for chicken breast juice, there was a professional expectation of a 25% increase in the price. Unfortunately, Hungary was able to provide Europe's highest inflation rate in April. In addition to the 25-30 percent increase in prices, we can show a 7-8 percent increase in wages, and a 3 percent increase in pensions that inflation practically ate. And what we see is that the Government of Hungary cannot say anything encouraging about the increase in basic food varieties. What we see is that we praise what is good, let us look at the system of family tax incentives, although one or two of its elements are not inflation-following and are frozen, and one or two other elements provide donations and subsidies to those who are not in need. Let's praise him for having a family tax reduction. I think that's a good thing. We should expand, make it fairer, and that is our view on the whole aid scheme. In addition to the ministerial salary of us right-wingers and a future national unit government, we would certainly not give HUF 10 million in support with village CSOK, and for those who really need it, we would rather move towards the aid with the largest possible amount instead of the preferential loan. But let's look at the pockets of the families. One includes one or two ten thousand forints with the family tax discount, and let us be optimistic so that they can realize this. In the other pocket, however, even in the case of a typical family shopping, thousands of forints are added only by the fact that there is 27 per cent VAT on basic foods, or, in my opinion, the 27 per cent tax on children's education is in Hungary, the 27 per cent VAT on children's articles. And we want a demographic turnaround. This would be a prerequisite not to impose penalty taxes on Hungarian families. This is also a thousands of HUF item every month. [[Continue in 207/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary And we also see that the 10-year freezing of family allowances is a fully conscious goal on the part of the government: it seeks to encourage everyone to get to know the world of work. Obviously, in terms of principles, there is no such difference between the positions of any parliamentary party: everyone wants to achieve the highest possible high, decent, workable income. We say, however, from a child protection approach, that the amount of the family allowance, which is subjective, must be doubled, but it must be placed on a family card, a device that resembles a SZÉP card, which can be used to pay for and purchase basic food, child-rearing articles, the costs necessary for the child's housing and the goods and services necessary for the spiritual upbuilding of the child. There is little more neter child protection proposal before the Hungarian palace. We are determined to protect children under all circumstances with this proposal, and if we managed to make some progress in these backward areas, we would see that it would be much more beneficial for families. At the moment there is a multiple load on the other side against a minimal discount, the effects of the weak forint have not been mentioned, but several times in the pockets of the families are eliminated by these negative factors, as much as, say, a family tax reduction can leave in it. That's the basic situation on which it comes, let's say, all the consequences of a missed alimony. The consequence is that the family that has to play chess on a few thousand forints may not have to wait six months for the money they lost, but only three months, but the first, second and third months can be just as difficult and cruel. That is why we propose that a state fund advance all amounts, and then the State tries to recover the outstanding amounts on those who have not paid. A clearer, simpler solution to this whole problem is very difficult to come up with. If this is not supported by the government, I will only be interested in why not, so we strongly and firmly expect the government to explain how the opposition feels about its articulated solution here, or if it does not support it, why not. Thank you for your attention. [[Ander Balázs and Potocskane Anita Kőrösi applaud.]]
u2021-06-07-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I thank you, Mr President, for your moderate contribution. The Member has opened the debate on the whole family support and family policy system. I wouldn't want to do this right now; I understand what you're saying. I would just like to draw your attention to one thing, which was a little controversial in your comment. On the one hand, he said that the family support system should be made more fair, and he told me who they wouldn't give it to, or if I looked at it through other glasses, who would take away certain elements of the family support system, while on the other hand he said that the Hungarian State should advance all alimony. These two approaches are not in line with each other. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I think it is.]] But I don't want to solve this. With regard to your proposal, which also considers the advance from six months to three months to be a great deal, because there are some families that are having difficulty with this, or the abolition of the 50 or 80 percent limit, I have said my opinion on this at the legislative committee meeting, and I am telling you this right now. The purpose of our bill is to help children, children who are forced to grow up in a single - parent family. That is why we are trying to make the rules that protect the family and protect the children stronger. But the purpose of the bill is not to assume all the obligations of the debtor. So we don't think that we have to assume all the obligations [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's the problem!]] Who, by the way, doesn't pay the alimony and doesn't help the child or the dependent. I would add that, after the adoption of this amendment, the accumulated alimony will be a public debt. So I think that this is a powerful enough rule to help families with children. [[18.00]] Let us not forget that the planned amendments, as the Member said, are increasing the effectiveness of the child-receiving lawsuits, and that the recovery of child-receiving fees can also become faster and more effective, and that legislation on the advance payment of child-receiving fees will also be more favourable. As I said, the proposal focuses on the interests of children and aims to promote access to child support for all children in the same way. Let us not forget, too, that the amendment abolishes the income limit currently required as a condition of entitlement for the advance payment of child support, so that in the future it will be possible to claim it regardless of per capita income; from now on, all single-parent families that have irrecoverable child support claims will benefit from this option, thus referring back to the Member's comment, if I take his sentence in relation to family support, it will be a fairer system. The proposal also promotes earlier access to child support, as we have said, that instead of the currently prescribed six months of irrecoverability, three months of irrecoverability will be sufficient, and once again, the maintenance debt will then be a public debt. The advance child support ceiling increases to 30 per cent of the minimum wage, which is currently HUF 50 220. This not only means that the maximum amount that the State can advance will increase by more than three times, precisely three and a half times, but also that this ceiling will automatically increase as the minimum wage rises. I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate, for their well-intentioned proposals and comments, and for all those who consider it important to improve the living conditions of single-parent families to support the bill on tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-07-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/16217. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, For the first time in the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-07-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the status of State Project Evaluation and the amendment of certain related laws XXXIII. T/16217. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 20 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 6 abstentions. The corona virus epidemic and the economic impact on it have changed our daily lives around the world, so taking into account the needs of the upcoming programming period, we also need to modify the state project evaluation system, in addition to many other things. The assessment of the content of aid applications for EU funds, which are transparent, unbiased and independent of market actors and market actors, is a public task for those with a public project evaluation relationship. Our country has protected jobs and has achieved outstanding results in the settlement of wages for people working in the health sector, but the health service relationship with the thus established public health service provider is still an obstacle to the establishment of a public project evaluation relationship. We must settle this and give them the opportunity to enter into such a relationship, as previously the persons concerned were still subject to the law. The objective of the amendment is also to ensure that the public project evaluation system can be used for the technical control of public procurement of projects that are to be implemented through the Recovery and Resistance Instrument, and therefore the scope of the law should be supplemented according to this criterion. As a result of the changed situation, the concept of valuer should also be amended depending on the changes in function, and the applicant data sheet should also indicate which type of activity the valuer would like to apply for. The type of activity shall also be included in the contract concluded with the applicant. Based on previous experience, it is not worth limiting the valuer by not starting the evaluation work for three days, but by having the opportunity to start the activity after the task is ordered. It is practical and in the public interest if, in the framework of the project evaluation tender, the employer requests and manages a copy or electronic copy of his diploma, certificate or certificate of professional experience, as required by the Government's decree, for the establishment of a future state project evaluation relationship and for the subsequent verification of compliance with the conditions of employment of the applicant. Transparency will also be improved if the list of experts includes, in addition to the name and subject matter of the evaluator, the activities under which it carries out expert tasks, so that, like other data, it is worth publishing. This bill therefore serves both to increase efficiency and to ensure transparency, which will help our economy to return to growth. In the light of this, please support the proposal submitted. Thank you for your trust. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-06-07-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary that at this stage of the debate, [[Dr. Balázs Orbán says no.]] or at a later stage. The Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Selected European Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I ask my fellow Members, they wish to make use of it. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] No, the Secretary of State won't say anything. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/16200. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. T/16200. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, There are currently 13 indigenous nationalities living in our country, for which the government since 2010 has done a great deal for its survival, for the maintenance of their culture, and for the widest possible existence of their identity. [[18.10]] In addition to the legislation in force, the draft law before us makes it clear that the national minority self-government may participate in the general assembly of the national minority national minority representative who has obtained a mandate on the national minority list, as well as the minority advocate as a permanent inviter, without prejudice to the fact that the meeting of the general assembly is public or closed. In order to ensure democratic legitimacy, the provision of the proposal to decide on the establishment of a nationality list in the non-transferable competence of the general assembly of the national minority self-government should be emphasised. It should also be noted that the rules governing the drawing up of lists should also apply to the filling of the vacant list mandate. It should be pointed out that the General Assembly may hold a closed meeting on the issue of listing and that the decision cannot be ruled out by the Member because of personal involvement. It is also important to require that the decision to make a nationality list is taken by the general assembly at the earliest on 1 October of the calendar year preceding the general election of Members of Parliament, and no later than 20 days after its establishment. The decision taken in this way shall be in writing at the latest on the calendar day following the decision and shall be published on the website of the national minority self-government. The minutes of the decision shall be in writing until the third calendar day following the decision and shall then be sent to the judicial authority, i.e. the metropolitan or county government office. In a manner similar to electoral remedies, the decision taken will be reviewed in a sombre procedure, thus helping to make the final decision as early as possible. In this case, the promotional function of the election office shall be carried out by the Budapest and County Government Office. It should be noted, however, that the Government Office, acting under its judicial authority, may, by virtue of the law, initiate a review of the decision itself if it detects its unlawful nature. It is proposed that a request for review may be submitted only by reference to a serious breach of the provision of the law. In order to serve as an example, such is, in particular, an infringement affecting the legality of the listing or, in the context of the listing, the exercise of the rights and obligations set out in this Act does not comply with the requirement of good faith and proper exercise of the law. The Curia shall uphold or annul the decision of the General Assembly against the electoral procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the Government of Hungary decided to maintain close contact with our national governments in the implementation of our national strategic interests and in achieving our common goals. Nationalities living in our country have increased the common cultural heritage of the Hungarian nation with their culture and traditions. In the light of this, the bill on the House's table must be supported, and I trust in their support, because, as you can understand, it can guarantee a high level of respect for the rights of nationalities living in Hungary and their social participation. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-06-07-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Ritter Imre, President of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2021-06-07-213	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich als Einreicher der Gesetzesvorlage, mit Nr. 16.200 über das Gesetz Nr. CLXXIX von Jahr 2011 über die Rechte der Nationalitäten, entwickele. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our position briefly on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary at T/16200. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. the bill on the amendment of the law. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary submitted the bill to Parliament on 11 May 2021 after a long consultation. The basic purpose of the bill was to establish clearly and clearly the rules of the decisions of the national minority self-governments' general assemblies on the establishment of a nationality list in order to ensure democratic legitimacy, and to make the national list of national minority representatives a clear basis for the legal decision of the national minority self-governments' general assemblies. On the other hand, we have ensured the publicity of the decision, the clear legality control of the legal course of the entire agenda for the decision, and Section 117/A. (paragraph 1) an appeal against a decision and a full detailed regulation of the administrative and non-court proceedings. On 26 May 2021, the Judicial Committee, as a designated committee, submitted T/16200/2 to the submitted bill in the context of the parliamentary procedure. The Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate was tabled by the Legislative Committee on 3 June 2021. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as its rapporteur, fully agreed with this amendment. Finally, at this morning's meeting, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities made another amendment to the national statement of reasons of the bill prior to its final adoption and submission, and we submitted it. As a result, as Chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as the rapporteur of the bill, I can convey the unified opinion of our committee and of the indigenous nationalities in Hungary, as well as my personal conviction that with the proposed bill, we can properly eliminate and regulate legal gaps that can be facilitated, ensure that the decision to represent nationalities in Hungary in Parliament reflects the majority will of the nationalities in question, and that the procedure and decision to do so is lawful in all respects. This is not only a question of nationality, regardless of whether our amendment only covers the rules on the election of minority advocates and representatives of nationalities, but this is also part of the parliamentary election at the moment, so we consider it extremely important that we consider this to be a cornerstone of democracy in an appropriate regulatory environment. On this basis, I would like to ask you with respect that, as in the preparation of the bill and in its general debate, you support our amendment this time. Of course, however, I look forward to your views and any comments, and I will try to answer them as best I can. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-06-07-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr. Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister of State, on behalf of the government, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister.
u2021-06-07-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speaking Ladies and Gentlemen! Hungary's Government is proud of the exemplary ethnic policy at European level, with which we support 13 indigenous nationalities in our country, and since 2010 the number of ethnic institutions has multiplied, as well as the financial support of ethnic identity, language and culture. In addition, it is important, in our view, to shape the legal environment in order to help nationalities. [[18.20]] The government therefore supports the legislative amendment proposed by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, which was preceded by a broad consultation. As the government position was described in detail by colleagues earlier in the debate, this is also known to you, and I will not repeat them. We trust to support T/16200. The amendment could further strengthen the legitimacy of the democratic representation of ethnic communities native to Hungary. On behalf of the Government, I would like to ask all the political groups and representatives of the Parliament to support the proposal in the interests of nationalities, in line with the national strategy objectives of our country, with their vote aside on party policy considerations. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2021-06-07-216	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I ask you, do you wish to use this on one of my fellow Members? [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr President, and first I will ask him, on behalf of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Deputy Minister. [[For signal:]] It says no. Mr. President, I'm asking you if you'd like to speak. Yes, Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2021-06-07-217	Thank you very much. I would just like to conclude by saying that, on the one hand, I would like to thank everyone who helped us prepare the law: the Association of National Self-Governments of Hungarian Nationalities, the Deputy Commissioner for National Rights of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and his colleagues, of course, the National Election Office, the Prime Minister's Office and the relevant professional apparatus of the Ministry of Justice, because obviously a significant part of this amendment is a purely legal issue, in which we do not wish to play a decisive role on the part of the nationality committee. I would like to thank you, too, for the work that everyone has put into it, despite differing viewpoints, in the course of the preparation, and I would also like to ask all the political groups and independent Members of Parliament to support in the final vote the adoption of the legislative proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Thank you.
u2021-06-07-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/16208. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16208 amendment of certain tax laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is, on the one hand, to transpose the amendment resulting from certain legal harmonisation obligations in the EU into national law and, on the other hand, to legislate the provisions to facilitate the re-launch and whitening of the economy in order to simplify administration and facilitate the application of the law. The most important amendment to the amendments to the levies is that from 2021, the family home creation discount, the housing purchased using CSOK, is free of charge. However, the levy will have to be paid later if the acquirer has used an advance family home-building allowance and, because of the failure to fulfil the child-bearing obligation, the repayment of the family home-creation allowance has been ordered by the authority or has been voluntarily repaid by the acquirer. As regards social security, the proposal amends the rules on the application of family benefits in the context of a change in flat-rate taxation rules in personal income tax. Under the new rules, the single contractor opting for flat-rate taxation is exempted from personal income tax in respect of income below half the annual minimum wage, so that the flat-rate self-employed must only set a tax advance from the moment the flat-rate income exceeds half of the annual minimum wage. Dear House, It is important to note that the government is also helping to restart the economy through tax policy, so this proposal is also the tax relief bill. The social contribution tax is reduced to 15 percent. The VET contribution will be included in the tax while maintaining the benefits. The tax burden on labour is thus reduced by 2 percentage points and the tax system is further simplified. As a result of the changes, the company remains 250 billion HUF per year. The provision that energy suppliers can deduct their losses from their pre-tax profit over the next five tax years is intended to preserve the reduction in overhead costs. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. I would ask my fellow Members to proceed in the vote as I propose. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-07-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Secretary Norbert Izer if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-221	Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited and as Chairman of the Budget Sub-Committee of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow T/16208 on the amendment of certain tax laws. I would like to state our position with regard to bill No 1. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is the House Rule 43-45. On 1 June 2021, on the basis of its Articles of Association, T/16208 on the amendment of certain tax laws, held a detailed debate on the national minority agenda. The European Parliament and the Council adopted a proposal for a regulation. Our committee did not take a position on the proposal to amend the bill, it did not intend to make any further amendments, so the committee did not submit a proposal for a detailed debate and adopted the report on the detailed debate with 13 unanimous votes. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomes all the government's efforts and measures that contribute to the development of families and the economy by amending tax rules. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes to adopt the T/16208 amendment of certain tax laws. a bill submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2021-06-07-222	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-06-07-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Deep silence, this is typical of this debate, when we heard the position of the Legislative Committee on this proposed bill. I have said in the general debate that this tax package would be perfect if there were not amendments to corporate tax in the proposal in the past, in the Commission section and in plenary. [[18.30]] And, of course, that will be the reason why our group will not be able to support this proposal. And why did I say deep silence? There was not a word about the opinion of the Legislative Committee that I would like to reward public foundations here in corporate tax with a tax advantage of 300 per cent. When I spoke about this in the general debate and asked the Secretary of State to tell me why this should be done, the answer was: but every foundation that is of public use is entitled to a certain 50 percent reduction in the corporate tax base. This has been raised in these public foundations, which we all know are nothing but the privatisation, the privatisation of national wealth, the common, the tax revenue, and then we will see how the public foundations manage. We have a vague suspicion, if we can see what you have done with the Hungarian people's money in the last eleven years. So the point is, you missed this one. Then I would like to ask you that it is such a big unanimous opinion that it is fantastically well that these public foundations have a 300-percent tax advantage. In order to quantify this, it is also possible that the total tax base of these companies, who supported these foundations, could disappear, so in the Hungarian budget the planned amount of corporate tax... Well, I'm gonna ask you now, seriously, how did they put together the budget? Well, then, that's what you had to figure out, that corporate tax is not going to get in the way of these tax advantages, because apparently, companies that support public foundations are going to get a tax advantage that, I'm telling you, they're going to be able to fully offset their corporate tax liability. So it is no longer enough that the Hungarian people's money flows into sight-team sports and soccer, and now the Hungarian people's money flows into public foundations. It should have devoted at least one half sentence to this in the legislative committee opinion. I believe it's much easier not to talk about it, because then they think it's not. But there is, and when they point at me because I've known him completely from the past, what this story is about. They put a point in the Salad Laws, we say, this tax package, the tax package is 117 pages, and this is the one point, of course, the opposition cannot say yes to that. Then it will be that we have not supported the reduction of the social contribution tax, and I also say that there are forward-looking changes in tax legislation, to which we would be happy to press 'yes'. But what do you think you're doing? I believe the campaign is coming, and that's what we need to focus on, so that the opposition can be beaten and beaten, but let's see what budgetary implications this has. Because I'm telling you, it's not enough to talk about where that 300 percent tax advantage was going to go, and we also need to talk about the impact of this on the 2022 budget, because they brought this amendment into the legislative committee, and they didn't even have the guts to submit it to the Economic Committee. I just don't know that with this... I obviously know what your goal is: they have one goal, that the opposition should say no. That's what the Jobbik will do. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-224	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members how they would still like to make use of the opportunity to speak further. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-07-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members, I'd like to respond to the suggestion. It has already been said in press articles that there has been a deep silence at the TAB about the suggestion. There was no debate on this amending proposal at the TAB. We were there, we were prepared, if there were any questions, and I would have been happy to say what I am going to say to the Congresswoman. As indicated in the general debate, we have now provided foundations, such as these foundations of public interest, with tax advantages such as civil society organisations, public benefit NGOs. No better, no higher volume than they are. The 300 percent tax base discount, once again mentioned in the press, was also indicated by the congresswoman that she was going to hit a huge hole in the Hungarian budget. It has also been said that it is an unprecedented tax advantage, a former finance minister said so. At the time of this Minister of Finance, in 2004, it was included in Hungarian tax law, which is still in force, another 300 percent tax advantage, where companies enter into a research agreement with universities and research institutions, jointly research and develop, and are entitled to a 300 percent tax base reduction. This rule has been in place since 2004, and today is also in force. In recent years, the budget has not gone through this loophole, so to speak. Companies support research and development according to their well-conceived interests; if they see an advantage in this, they support this activity. The tax base reduction, as the former Minister of Finance indicated, means that if a person grants aid to 100 units, 27 units will receive aid from the State. If this were an activity that wasn't practical, unlucky, pointing in the wrong direction, why would someone pay 100 units of support to gain 27 units of advantage? It doesn't make sense. That is why there is a moderate benefit, as we have seen this 300 per cent exercise, so it will not upset or upset the burden-bearing capacity of the budget, but in return for universities, for foundations of public interest who will put together good activities and good programmes for a good purpose, this is another opportunity to involve resources and involve market resources for the activity. And here I stress, as in the basic tax discount, which was also discussed by the House in the general debate, it was true that we wanted to provide the same benefits as civil society organisations, and this 300 percent discount is exactly the same type of benefit that these research centres and research institutes can receive; and, moreover, higher education institutions have had a 50 percent discount since 2014, so it is itself that universities have been trying to support tax law on a broad support spectrum, which has existed since 2014. So the essence of these predecessor benefits is in this present proposal, and we continue to think that it will provide tax incentives that will facilitate additional support, but in any case it will require a good programme, a forward-looking plan by universities and public foundations, as you have said. So, overall, I would like to reassure everyone that the budget is not at risk by this amending proposal. A large Member has summarised the technical content of the proposal. Thank you very much for the comments and constructive criticisms and for supporting the bill during the vote. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-06-07-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2022 and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/16118. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was carried out by the committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/16118/1660. T/16118/1559. The reports of the committees related to the debate are available on the IT network on numbers T/16118/1152, 1153, 1155-1158, 1160-1162 and 1164-1168. Dear Parliament, T/1168/1170, T/1168/1170, T/1168/1170, T/1168/1170, T/1168/1170, T/1168/1170, T/1168/1172 The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/1168/1171. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. I would like to remind you that, according to the provisions of the House Rules, the rapporteur of the committee, with a summary of the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions expressed in writing, can speak within a total of 60 minutes of time, with 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. [[18.40]] I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-07-227	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We are looking at a bill on the 2022 budget, the general discussion of which took place between 19 and 21 May in a 30-hour timeframe. In addition to the Committee on Budgets, the Budget Act was also discussed by all the standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and conducted a detailed debate. As rapporteur for the designated committee, I would like to present his views. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Law, so the bill meets the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system, complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. I would also like to say that, where the committee that has discussed this has not given a separate opinion, I will not repeat this statement, which contains compliance with the provisions of the house rules. I will start with the Committee on Budgets by enumerating the opinions of the negotiating committees. In the opinion of the majority of the Committee, the government submitted next spring's draft budget for predictability. Experience in recent years has shown that early submission does not affect the quality of design work at all, but rather helps economic operators prepare for next year. For Hungary, the economic and fiscal results achieved before the coronal virus pandemic have provided a sure basis for mitigating the negative effects of the epidemic, but the negative consequences are still significant. As of March 2020, the recession that has developed as a result of the corona virus pandemic has brought about an increase in unemployment worldwide. The government never intended to give aid, but to keep jobs. Maintaining a high level of employment and stabilising the labour market has played a major role in the protection of jobs introduced to address the effects of the epidemic. However, once it has recovered, employment growth and labour demand in the economy are once again highlighted. We continue to believe that work should be encouraged rather than punished. The tax system that encourages tax avoidance and drives businesses to do black work is not good. For this reason, the civilian government has always believed in reducing taxes and contributions on labour, and has also submitted next year's budget. With regard to the 2022 budget, it should be pointed out that, next year, pensioners will now receive half of the 13th month's pension, which was taken from them by left-wing governments under crisis management. This also shows that the 2022 budget does not take away from people, but maintains or even increases subsidies. I believe that the proposal will help in all respects the Hungarian economy as a whole, the financial situation of families and Hungary to restart as soon as possible. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Next year's budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade allows the portfolio to actively contribute to the relaunch of Hungary. Investment promotion and export development are of particular importance in this respect. As a new element, a fund called the "Brexit Adaptation Reserve" will be created to support economic sectors and actors disadvantaged by the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, and the Hungarian-Indonesian capital fund will cover the investments needed to carry out large infrastructure projects in Indonesia. It is pleased that the budget of the Information Office, support for investments in foreign representations and the funding of the Stipendium Hungaricum grant scheme for excellence are all significantly increased. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. The long-term sustainable use of natural resources, the improvement of the quality of life of the population, the enforcement of the constitutional right to a healthy environment, the development of society and the economy, and the improvement of the quality of the environment are key areas of action in the field of environmental protection. During 2022, the use of available support opportunities will enable them to achieve the alignment of environmental, climate policy and competitiveness objectives, generational change, profitability growth and adaptation to the different natural conditions of domestic landscapes, which are adapted to changing needs and external conditions, including in agriculture. The goals of sustainable development will be achieved through efforts to improve environmental awareness and environmental education. Such programs have been going on for several years and will continue in 2022, such as the National School Garden Development Program, the Green Kindergarten Programme, the Biotic Index in High School Education with BI,.. Save a Garden! , eco-school programmes, forest-school and forest-school programmes, awareness-raising and awareness-raising actions and campaigns. In addition, the implementation of measures related to air quality improvement and noise reduction will continue to be a priority in the coming year. The main objective is to improve ambient air quality and to prevent the development of air pollution that endangers human health and the natural environment. Opinion of the Economic Committee. It is to be welcomed from the Economic Committee that the budget submitted by the Government for 2022 is the budget for the re-launch of the country. In this way, the economic re-launch action plan, the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary, is launched, which is also about starting life again, in addition to restarting the economy. The action plan not only creates jobs for the Hungarian people, but, with its help, Hungary can once again take a prominent growth path in the European comparison. Families and children are the future of a nation, and therefore support for families with children and children will be further expanded beyond the measures taken to protect their families. Thanks to the latest element of the home creation program, they help families move into a new home with VAT and tax exemption. As a result of government measures and the economic recovery after the coronal virus epidemic, the performance of the Hungarian economy can be increased by 4.3 percent in 2021 and 5.2 percent in 2022. Preserving and increasing jobs and supporting investment remains a priority for the government, so public investment in record amounts can also be made at EU level, which is up to 6.5 percent of the total national product. We can't be too careful, so the budget also has a central reserve of HUF 233 billion, representing about 0.4 percent of gross domestic product. The work of doctors and nurses working in the front line of control against the epidemic is recognised. As a result of historical health wage increases, medical salaries have increased on average by two and a half times over two years. We also appreciate the work of health professionals, thanks to the wage increase programme launched in 2018, the wages of nurses will increase by two and a half times by 2022. [[18.50]] We will spend nearly HUF 460 billion next year on the implementation of the wage increase programmes. Businesses and people working can count on government support in 2022. Instead of tax increases and cuts, we will achieve a reduction in labour taxes and the continuation of investment programmes. From 1 July 2022, the rate of tax on labour will be reduced by another 2 percentage points and young people under the age of 25 will be exempt from the payment of personal income tax from 1 January. Thanks to these two measures, it remains more than HUF 250 billion more than families and businesses, helping the economy recover as soon as possible. The primary objective of the government's economic defence action plan is to preserve jobs, create new jobs, and protect Hungarian families and domestic businesses. Opinion of the National Security Committee. The National Security Committee considers it important that in 2022 there will be 45 billion forints more in defence, public security and law enforcement than this year, and more than 567 billion forints more in the country than in 2010. The draft budget for 2022 also shows that the government has given priority to the support of national security services. For example, the support of the Information Office will increase by more than HUF 1.5 billion and the operating budget of national security services will increase by more than HUF 1 billion. Budgetary increases contribute to Hungary's ability to respond more effectively to security risks. In view of this, the appropriations of the 2022 budget proposal for civilian and military services ensure full fulfilment of the statutory tasks of the secret services. The Defence and Police Committee, the People's Welfare Committee, the Cultural Committee and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities did not write a separate opinion to the bill, but they also established compliance with the law's decree-making house rule. The Justice Committee did the same. The opinion of the Committee on Agriculture follows. The development of knowledge transfer, including vocational training, adult education and professional advice, is essential for increasing the competitiveness and development of agriculture. New education has been introduced in the new vocational training system. According to the principle of this structure, it is up to the school system to provide a wide range of sectoral-professional basic knowledge and the competences expected by employers. As a result of the above, the budget for 2022 is HUF 29.2 billion, which represents an increase of HUF 3.6 billion. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The government's main objective is to continue to maintain our country's GMO-free freedom and to create GMO-free food chains that cover seed, in addition to the issue of feed, the production of animal products. The agricultural compensation scheme, which has been in place since 2012, contributes to the continuous increase in emissions and exports in the sector, with the aim of further developing the agricultural risk management toolkit and extending it by risk-preventing instruments. This is how the third pillar, the national ice prevention system, was introduced in May 2018 and the agricultural compensation fund was extended from 2022 onwards. While the budget for 2021's central budget for the reduction of national agricultural damage is HUF 8.6 billion, the budget for 2022 already spends HUF 12.8 billion on this purpose. This represents a positive difference of HUF 4.2 billion, which helps farmers to continue to receive adequate compensation for their losses. The government is committed to improving the competitiveness of Hungarian farmers in the agricultural market, strengthening their economic position and supporting the development of domestic agriculture. For this reason, the government has raised the co-financing of the rural development programme of the common agricultural policy from 17.5 percent to 80 percent so far, which means that three times the amount of resources available to it in 2014-2020 is being insured for Hungarian agriculture. At present, EU policy rules coordinating the functioning of the CAP have not yet been adopted, so 2022 will be a transitional year, but the final technical rules for the transition period of the CAP could have been published already in 2020. It is clear, therefore, that there is a significant change in agricultural subsidies by making national co-financing equal to 80 per cent of the maximum amount that can be granted in the Union, so that almost three times as much can be paid during the new programming period. This will bring about HUF 7900 billion to Hungary and this will be used in the programming period 2021-27 through cohesion EU funds and the Hungarian contribution. It can be concluded that from the budgetary side, all the resources necessary for further good functioning will be available. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. Hungary has been guaranteeing the permanent functioning and development of Hungarian institutions and organisations abroad, the continuity and continuous expansion of programmes to strengthen Hungarian communities abroad. The Ministry of National Policy, which is primarily responsible for the Prime Minister's Office, has set out the main sources that are the foundations of the objectives set out in the period 2018-2022 and which the Government of Hungary intends to continue in 2022. On behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, non-refundable budget support may continue to be provided to support project financing and related proportional operating costs in Transylvania, Felvidék, Délvidék, Transcarpathia and Diaspora. For national policy purposes, as in this year, the Prime Minister's Office has still allocated more than HUF 5 billion. On the way forward, with the National Policy Review of the 2022 budget, we can find significant support in the chapter of the Agricultural Ministry. Within the support of cross-border agricultural and rural development tasks, the main institutional system of cooperation with the mother country is the villager network in the Carpathian Basin, which will be supported by HUF 343 million next year. In addition to the agricultural portfolio, support for the promotion of survival in the homeland also supports agricultural education across the Hungarian border at all levels. Next year, the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme will continue, with the aim of developing Csángó Land and the other Hungarian populated areas, at a similar pace. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology also provides for the allocation of the framework to support cross-border higher education tasks in 2022. Next year's budget will not let go of those talented researchers across the border, academics, who enrich intellectual and scientific life in their homeland. Although the addition of the Domus Homeland Scholarship and the Hungarian Scholarship to another title was reorganized within the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the total amount laid down in this year's budget will also be available next year to support Hungarian scientists and scientific organizations across the border. [[19.00]] Finally, we must highlight the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which has been caring for and bringing together our national policy goals set out in 2010, supporting the survival of Hungarians across the border in their homeland, helping institutions to promote Hungarians' knowledge and national policy research, such as the House of Hungarians, providing support to build Hungarian-Hungarian relations without limit! for the implementation of the programme. Overall, we can say of the 2022 draft budget law that we have in our hands from a national political point of view a moderate, well-thought-out draft covering all disciplines. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. Our most important task after the coronal virus epidemic is to restart the economy. The support of Hungarian families and businesses, the creation of job-creating investments, the extensive development of health and higher education infrastructure all contribute to the Hungarian economy's momentum, which will allow Hungary to rise to the top five countries of the European Union by 2030. The Committee welcomes the fact that the budget provides more than HUF 7300 billion in 2022 for priority programmes, development, investment and measures to promote employment as part of the Economic Restart Action Plan. The Committee on European Affairs delivered the following opinion during the detailed debate. The bill estimates a deficit of 5.9 per cent of the total national product, which is in line with the transitional suspension rules for the so-called Maastricht criteria. In addition, due to the debt brake provision of the Fundamental Law, it is worth pointing out that the national debt-to-product ratio may decrease from 79,9 per cent of the total national product by the end of 2022 to 79,3 per cent of the total national product expected by the end of 2021. In terms of EU funds, Hungary will receive about HUF 2875 billion in total next year, both through investment and infrastructure funds in the budget, other EU programmes and indirect or direct agricultural subsidies outside the budget. Dear House, Mr President, I'm reporting, I've presented the majority opinions of the committees. On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-07-228	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. I salute my fellow Members and the Secretary of State of Banai. Dear Parliament, The minority opinions will now be presented, which will be presented by three Members within a total timeframe of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2021-06-07-229	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We have 30 minutes to express our minority opinion, but, of course, the positions expressed in the committees would take much longer and much more time. It is only because there is a particular situation that before the Secretary of State there is the main volume and the big numbers, and before me there is the volume containing the 1149 amendment, of which the pro-government majority could not accept a single amendment or a proposal. Accordingly, it seems that there is a very large difference between the concept of opposition groups and the pro-government thinking, as the opposition has dealt much more with people's centralisation and the expansion of their opportunities, in contrast to a thought that is particularly demanding in the current context of investment. Let us look at the examples of this from committee meetings, and accordingly we will be able to present to you the position of the committees here. Firstly, the minority opinions expressed in the Committee on Budgets mention here and in many cases that the government has given this budget the name of the rebooting budget, but in fact, this economic rebooting action plan has a central role to play in the budget and in its communication, it repeatedly recalls that it is available for HUF 7308 billion and intends to devote 13 percent of next year's GDP to this. Of course, behind the words well-sounding, the reality is quite different, and accordingly we see that by combining certain appropriations, I might say, as an experienced Excel user, the staff of the Ministry of Finance worked over 200 people in 180 thousand hours to bring this together, to add it together, and say that this is the reboot action plan. We do not believe that this is a new source, which is why it does not really help people. Thus, the government plans to borrow thousands of billions of HUF simultaneously, but it does not spend it in the right place and in the right way, and the price of this is enormous debt. The amount of government debt is expected to rise from 29 682 billion HUF in the months preceding the epidemic to 44 713 billion HUF by the end of next year. With a slight detour, I say that this was at the very centre of our debate with Mr Mihály Varga, that the debt was not caused by the opposition; the debt was caused by nothing else, Mr Secretary of State such as you, here is the obvious figure: it was delivered to HUF 44 713 billion, which means borrowing more than HUF 15 000 billion in these few years. In recent years, the European Commission, and even the Hungarian Fiscal Council this year, have signalled to the government that they are dissatisfied with all this. While the vast majority of neighbouring countries apparently used the years of abundance to save money earlier, the Hungarian government spent on prestige investments, it was not in vain that overheated sectors were formed according to the MNB. We can read a long review from the President of the Hungarian National Bank that the past decade has been a wasted period in terms of, for example, not taking any meaningful steps in the renewal of health care, let us say, the same situation in relation to higher education, no competitiveness strategy has been developed, while the country has become indebted and this situation has been created. There's no reason for these debates, as I said. The booming epidemic and the crisis that followed confirmed the fears: in a matter of seconds, public debt was over 80% of GDP, and in the coming years it is not expected to fall below the current one. You're taking it down two tenths in 2022 with a numerical trick, but, frankly, if the exchange rate doesn't turn out the way you want it to, by the way, to be stronger here in the next period, then, of course, one word of this will not be true. So the country's biggest debt over the past period was produced by the Fidesz government. It is certainly worth mentioning that inflation is rising to an increasing level in Hungary as well: we have been talking about an unprecedented height for eight years, since analysts measured 5.1 percent in April 2021 and expect further increases. On the basis of the economic circumstances cited, it is difficult to say that the draft law on the central budget for 2022 would be justified. [[19.10]] Next year, as I said, the government debt is approaching HUF 45 000 billion, the general government deficit is also much higher than expected on the basis of the opinion of the Fiscal Council, and European record-breaking Hungarian inflation can cause serious problems in the everyday life of Hungarian families, such as the Újpest market, to mention a specific example. Although the increased economic engagement of the state in the years of the crisis may be desirable, it can be a goal to be supported, but the planned extra money to be spent, covered by the loan, is being spent poorly by the government, and that is the essence of our criticism, and this is why 1149 amendments have been tabled, we have initiated, in a separate draft law, to stop 21 unnecessary investments, so that they will not be burdened with the next period or with credit. The next opinion, which is still on the Committee on Budgets, here I would like to draw attention specifically to a law which was adopted by Fidesz as a draft law on stability, and then, at the first moment, as the political processes were not in line with the planned financial processes, immediately amends the law. They adapt the legislation to their policies. In this way, I must say that the debate with Mr State Secretary, who has already been mentioned several times, about what they are going to do with the suspension of the Stability Act and how it works, has now been tabled in a separate law, in a salad law, but so we can safely say that this has become a law of instability, and you have immediately suspended on the basis of political interests, immediately suspending the operation of this law with tomorrow's vote. This also means that the 2022 budget is not in line with the Stability Law, since it plans a deficit of 5.9 per cent in addition to the 5.2 per cent increase, i.e. still well above 3 per cent, and this is in this sense contrary to what the law has to say, since it would allow overspending only in the event of a reduction in GDP, but this is not the case here either. Both values are increasing, so you are immediately adapting the law to your misguided policy. I would like to inform you of the minority opinion of the Committee on Enterprise Development, namely that next year's budget for 2022 is an election budget, so much so that, as a minority opinion of the committee, the electoral law has been clearly stated, since the operation of the election budget, so to speak,... the Board of Budgets, the Hungarian National Bank, cannot hide such an opinion, even though it cannot be said that these organisations would not be full of government party soldiers. In the opinion of the Fiscal Council, next year's budget seems to see little reduction in the debt ratio of 0.6 per cent and a risk of 0.4 per cent in the GDP share of the security reserve. A serious challenge, Mr Secretary of State, is how to meet this, but both statements are true, and the reason for this is that they are pushing for investments that are overspending, while there is no need for debt anyway, and in this way risks could be reduced, reserves could also be increased. And what happens in the meantime? As indicated in the Minority Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee, the government, by presenting next year's budget, said, among other things, that the debt ratio is still the highest in regional comparison, and fiscal cuts will last for a long time. It is regrettable to note that the government intends to take more money from people next year than has been done so far by the Enterprise Development Committee. Corporate tax revenues increase by HUF 588 billion, revenues from the company car increase by HUF 39 billion, revenues from the specific tax of small taxpayers continue to increase. Therefore, it seems that people are being taken away from them and that they should be confronted with what I said earlier, that you are overspending and that you are taking away from people, that you are taking away from businesses, from small businesses, who are suffering from the economic crisis somehow coming out of this situation, but the social crisis that you caused, the social crisis that you caused, in this way, are less able to help, so that businesses can ease, by the way, their start-up. You know, Secretary of State, it would have been a good thing what the opposition had suggested earlier, not to talk about a fresh start, but about keeping you alive. This would have been called wage support, and in this case, let's just say by other means, in a way affecting businesses, it could have been much more helpful, let's say, to help the economic sphere. I would like to quote from the minority opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Parliament, which says that, in fact, I will even say the repetition in part, just in order to trust that sooner or later the budget will also have a recurring problem, that it is still unclear and it cannot be clearly identified what the resources placed in each fund will be used for, so there is a great margin for the government. Mr State Secretary, we have told you in many places that the budget has been withdrawn from Parliament's control, and essentially depends on the government's decision-making at night, and in the morning, readers waking up to the Hungarian Gazette will read how many hundred and how many billion forints have been spent on something, let's say, a government investment that we consider unnecessary. It is only because it is generally considered that these investments are directed exclusively to companies with loyal ownership, i.e. to the government with a loyal ownership attitude, and thus left the vast majority of businesses entirely to themselves. According to the title of the 2022 budget, although it is the budget for the re-launch, the Hungarian economy does not really need a re-launch, it should not continue where economic growth stopped before the crisis, but a new growth path would be needed. This is a huge problem, that they have failed to do so, that once there is a possibility of creating destruction, which the crisis itself is doing, the government should be forward-looking in the subsequent construction, and the European Union will also support this through special means that will provide a great deal of resources to Hungary, and nothing can be seen from this which will come down in the 2022 budget. The macro-track on which the budget law is based also leaves something to be desired. A very ambitious 5.2 percent increase in GDP after a 4.3 percent increase this year may not be unrealistic, but obviously it can only be achieved if the forced expansion continues. It's your investment policy, but it's the only thing that people can benefit from. At the same time, the force of the Belgrade-Budapest railway will mean that even passengers will be short on it, because if the train wants to go fast enough, it cannot stop and they cannot get on it. In English, you are pushing for a thousand billion HUF investment, while that would not only be good for the people, but rather cause problems. I'd like to send you a message after the civil consultation, and I'll close the parentheses with this, and I'm sorry about the little detour. [[19.20]] The debt-to-GDP ratio will decrease from 80.4 percent last year to 79.9 percent and perhaps 79.4 percent next year, according to government expectations. But it is not difficult to see from these figures that the government only formally fulfils the requirement for a declining debt path. In fact, however, the debt-to-GDP ratio does not decrease, the change of a few tenths is well within the margin of error. So you are the ones who made Hungary the biggest debt ever. The budget makers also took a very optimistic position on the evolution of the euro exchange rate. After the expected value of HUF 361 per euro this year, the nominal exchange rate, HUF 360.9 per euro, is projected to be exactly the same next year. The explanation is this: the exchange rate which is unreally low was set only in order to find a way out of debt/GDP declines. The 2022 budget plan shows that the government continues to force extensive growth with a high investment rate, excessive public engagement and unnecessary investment. This growth path cannot be maintained in the long term, but only in the short term if more and more external resources are involved, which, in turn, anticipates a significant deterioration in the equilibrium situation. This is one of the backgrounds of the Fidesz government's economic policy, in the budget and in funding. Finally, I would like to draw attention to what Minister Mihály Varga said today that the irresponsibleness of opposition factions is the submission of a package of HUF 8000 billion amendments. You are aware, Mr Secretary, that there is no reason for these initiatives to be added together. What is needed is that these discussions should have been conducted, but they did not do so, so none of these were accepted. They therefore have no reason to treat this in this way and to refer to it in this way. I say this at a time when spending in 2020 has not yet been accounted for, the general government deficit in 2021 has tripled, while in 2022, Minister of State, they want to spend HUF 28 000 billion of the HUF 25 000 billion revenue. That's what they're gonna do, that's what they're gonna do. That is why we say that the increase in public debt is financed by credit and financed by something that is not acceptable. This debt was made under your leadership. And to the extent that this is so, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the Communication from the Ministry of Finance which was published in April, in which not we, but you claim that the deficit of HUF 1144 billion in the first quarter reached 76 percent of this year's planned deficit of HUF 1491 billion. And what does it say a little further away? The amount spent on epidemiological control exceeded HUF 342 billion. Mr Secretary of State, only 20 percent of this has been used to increase the deficit to this extent in relation to the epidemiological problems. So the source used to deal with the crisis has nothing to do with dealing with the epidemic, because you spent it on something else. And that's what you're saying here in the Ministry of Finance's own statement. It is therefore quite obvious that, on the basis of these minority opinions, this budget is unacceptable in this form. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-07-230	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi.
u2021-06-07-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to pick up where President Varju has stopped presenting minority opinions. However, I would like to add so much, not to repeat Mr President's words, that I have found four indications for this budget: opaque, uncertain, electoral and... the fourth one will not come to mind, but I will remember it in the coming period. The point is that in every case, we must pay attention to the fact that, in the case of the 2022 budget, the Committee's opinions have also been as expressed in my speech to the lead speaker, and by presenting the opinion of the representatives who remain in the minority, this House can also find out why the opposition cannot support the 2022 budget before us. I would like to highlight, in any case, the minority opinion expressed in the Committee on European Affairs. On the one hand, in the 2022 budget, the usual resources are available not only from the seven-year budget but also from the recovery fund in the context of our EU membership. We have heard a lot about how important the recovery fund will be for you in 2022. This is indeed a source of free farming and efficient farming to create a better and more livable Hungary for all Hungarians. However, it can also be seen that this HUF 5800 billion framework, which, by the way, consists of support and credit, has previously been designed and drawn up on the basis of consultation with a 500 organisations, you said that you would use this 5800 billion for what. However, when this meeting was held, the Prime Minister decided, after all, on his own, that Hungary will not use the loan, but that we will only apply for the HUF 2500 billion grant from the recovery fund. This could also be said to have ignored the social consultation that allegedly took place with regard to the recovery fund. It also appears from this recovery fund that this HUF 2500 billion loan, which would have been possible, would have provided Hungary with a much more favourable loan than the loans previously received from other locations. As this sum of HUF 3300 billion will fall out of the 2022 budget, this will obviously also affect next year's financial opportunities in a sensitive manner. We have already said this before, and I believe that the 2022 budget clearly serves nothing but the use of Hungarian taxpayers' money for political purposes. From the latest pro-government amendment, which was submitted at the very last minute, it is clear that nothing else is being focused on but propaganda to make Hungarian people believe that everything is okay. It is also a coincidence that the 100 billion public service contribution, i.e. the budget of MTVA, was capsized by a HUF 10 billion sum. It was rather odd, Mr. Secretary of State, to explain that there are more tasks and channels than there were years ago. Wasn't 100 billion enough? We believe that much, much less could solve this at the same level as it is now. This is good for nothing other than for those small settlements where Hungarians do not have the opportunity to find out from somewhere else, to get your messages, to hide their lies and reality to people. On the basis of the parliamentary and committee debates that have taken place in recent weeks, the Jobbik Group will certainly not vote in favour of this budget, and the opposition as a whole will do so, because, as Mr President said, none of the more than 1100 amendments were eligible for your support, although they really reflected the views and needs of the Hungarian people and we submitted them in their interest. We're very sorry you couldn't support any of these. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[19.30]]
u2021-06-07-232	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Venue Anett by saying that 26 minutes and 10 seconds have passed from 30 minutes.
u2021-06-07-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I must say something about what the Vice-President has repeatedly mentioned, and in the budgetary debate he also praised the process of adopting next year's budget again in the spring session. I also pay tribute to the fact that Mihály Varga submitted this budget on a day when we ourselves discussed the amendment to the 2021 budget before the committee. In other words, it became clear what the opposition drew attention to in the spring session last year, namely that the global crisis, which, of course, cannot be helped by the Hungarian government, can completely rewrite our macro numbers and we must act again. So we thought it would be much wiser if we had already held last year's budget debate in the autumn period. It is no different now, Mr Secretary of State, and allow me once again to draw attention to the fact that the threat has not passed at all, as we have Europe's champion inflation, and we do not yet have a number of data, namely, for example, data from the previous year's accounts, on the basis of which we could say that this budget is stable. Of course, it would be in our interest, but you can't do that, I think you're a responsible economist and a responsible politician. Since 2010, there has been a government approach that differentiates between Hungarian and Hungarian, region and region, settlement and settlement. The government calls this budget a re-launch budget, but I can only interpret it as a budget for the inclusion of social gaps. The representatives of the government praise these figures, but I say that the social and economic distinction is everywhere, there are the problems of our educational institutions, there are the problems of health access in the case of the break-down social sectors. I also respectfully draw your attention to the fact that we are not calling for social policy on the government, but social policy, which is just about not letting anyone break down. The budget should not be about how we help those who have already fallen, my honourable members of the government. They've had 11 years to organize without a crisis, so that there won't be breakers. Unfortunately, this did not work so well that three million of our countrymen live on or below the minimum living standards, in an extremely difficult situation. So, in this sense, it is natural that we have distribution disputes, such as distribution disputes, that the middle class and the upper middle class can take an extraordinary share of family policy measures, but at the same time, the social groups that are failing can make much more modest use of the support for home creation and the support for the birth of children that the government offers. Why I am talking about making a distinction between settlements and settlements, my fellow Members, 17 out of 23 cities with county rights received compensation. Members of the opposition and I have drawn attention to the need to compensate for the resources abstracted in the epidemiological measures, and we have also tabled a proposal for an amendment, as regards the county town of Érd myself. Here, let me say very briefly that the 12-fidesz-led city was among the compensated cities, typically with free-use frameworks, moving within a range of HUF 800 million and HUF 1.4 billion, while the opposition-led cities were left out of this and could enjoy much less compensation for their captive use. Taking into account [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I now thank you for your attention, with the promise that a new government will plan a much fairer budget and an eye on everyone. Thank you.
u2021-06-07-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he would like to speak now. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a time frame of 30 minutes for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. [[For signal:]] So you'd like to tell me later. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The representative of nationality invited by the nationality committee is now taking place within a five-minute timeframe. I give the floor to President Imre Ritter, who explains the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2021-06-07-235	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten bezüglich des Gesetzenvorschlages Nr. T/16.118 uber den ungarischen Haushalt 2022 mit den Nationalitäten-Aspekten kurz die Stellung zu nehme. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to give a brief opinion on the summarised amendment of the bill on the central budget for 2022, its nationalities aspects. It was adopted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 27 May 2021 and submitted by T/16118/1136 after the meeting. T/16118 on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Law No. 1. During the week before the submission, in the general debate in Parliament, I gave a detailed description of the needs for raising nationality support in 20 to 20 minutes, and presented in detail the reasons and justification for them. The amendment of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary was not adopted at last week's meetings, but first 200 million forints was adopted in the summary amendment, then another 1.8 billion forints of national minority support was adopted with the amendment proposed by the pro-government members of the Committee, the internal distribution of which was adjusted according to national needs. On this basis, the T/16118 on the current agenda on Hungary's central budget for 2022. Overall, the bill contains HUF 2 billion increase in minority support in areas marked with the agreement of Hungarian nationalities. Mr President, Dear House, By Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 adopted in 2014, Hungary's nationalities received an increase of approximately HUF 2 billion in support following the provision of the parliamentary representation of indigenous nationalities in Hungary. In the Act on Hungary's central budget for 2022, closing at least from a budgetary point of view the second parliamentary term of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, Hungary's nationalities can again receive an increase of approximately HUF 2 billion. These two years provide an appropriate framework for the very positive changes and significant progress made in relation to the nationalities native to Hungary in the last two parliamentary periods. So I think that there is no other task for me today than to thank the Hungarian Government and the factions of government, first and foremost, on behalf of the indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, for the significant support they have not shown in the last hundred years in almost all areas of nationality over the eight years. But I would also like to thank the opposition factions and all independent Members for excluding the legislative proposals of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary from the everyday parliamentary debates, and almost all our proposals were unanimously adopted in Parliament. [[19.40]] In order to ensure the future of our children and grandchildren' nationality, I would like to ask you with all due respect that, like the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, T/16118 should be supported. the adoption of the bill on Hungary's budget for 2022. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2021-06-07-236	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda and also on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2021-06-07-237	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have already made a number of speeches in the debate on the draft budget for next year, and I do not intend to extend it too long, but I would also like to say a few things, trying not to repeat what my fellow opposition Members have said. It must be emphasized that you have come up with a slogan that this is a budget for rebooting. I think that if someone looks at the numbers, looks at your real intentions and how well the budget itself is founded, especially in the face of existing and visible social and economic and environmental problems, then we should be able to say that this is not about restarting, but about living up to the future. I also deeply agree with my fellow opposition Members that there has been a clear proposal for an election budget here, and the government has clearly started preparing for parliamentary elections, and thus sacrificing Hungary's responsible budget planning to power-technical aspects. I would also like to make so many technical remarks that it is absolutely amazing and we can say that it is unprecedented how opaque the budget itself is, how big the lines are and how essential information cannot be found. But maybe I'll talk a little bit more about it later. Basically, and I have already referred to this in the general debate, to be able to present a sound budget to Parliament, to have an appropriate assessment of the situation, to face the situation of the country now, and to what damage the economic crisis has caused, and to what the lessons of this economic crisis are at all. You either didn't intend to do this or you didn't have the ability to make this assessment appropriate. Similarly, a responsible government considers what global processes we can see, how this pandemic and the crisis generated by the epidemic affected the European economy and the Hungarian economy, and what prospects we have, and tries to take everything in that direction, guide it in that direction, develop an economic policy, and base it on a budget plan based on a more resilient, crisis-resistant, patriot, less vulnerable economic policy. Here, colleagues have already referred to this symbolic project: you spend hundreds of billions of Hungarian people on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which perfectly expresses what false national Fidesz thinks about the world. They pour money on this project, they encrypt it, they don't provide any return guarantees, and they're actually sacrificing everything to further develop Chinese economic pressure and economic hegemony. In fact, everything that is basically necessary for infrastructure development in the Hungarian countryside is being abandoned, and an amazing amount of money is being spent on this project in such a way that it can be seen from the other side where and in what way it would be needed. It also supports irresponsible planning that they do not want to do anything about basic system problems that, in many respects, they have not been able to deal with in the last eleven years. That is why it is shocking, Mr Secretary of State, that the opposition, I don't know, has tabled perhaps 1050 amendments altogether, of which the LMP fraction is nearly 200, and you have not considered any worthy to vote. So seriously, Mr. Secretary, do you see it that way? So you've been drooling through a total of 1050 amendments, and you haven't found one that's justified? So, at least in an indicator, the constructivity of the fake national government would have been shown that, okay, we found one on the opposition side, which we accept, but neither did this. Dear Secretary of State, Here I have a few minutes to analyze this situation, but here is, for example, what I asked you about during the general debate, a huge system problem, the question of maintaining water utilities, the problem of maintaining water utilities. The Prime Minister acknowledged that there is a thousand billion-dollar shortage of resources, so that it will not cost this much, but this is what it will take to involve hundreds of billions annually and give this to the municipalities responsible for maintaining water utilities so that they can pass on to their companies and ensure the most important public service, the supply of healthy drinking water, sanitation and the protection of water bases. You have failed to do so, you have designed a fraction of the resources you need. We put forward a proposal for this, a hundred billion-dollar scale, for this very important purpose, and it was voted out without bone. But what's the solution, Mr. Secretary? So they're still burying their heads in the sand? We're gonna circle the streets and see that there's gonna be no clean drinking water? In the meantime, the Fudan project, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the MotoGP track, the hunting exhibition, and do not provide resources to provide drinking water? Well, how irresponsible is that? ! Congresswoman Anett Bősz spoke of the ever-increasing social divide, and she has pointed out that there are indeed shocking territorial differences. And indeed, we can confirm that you do not care that basic infrastructure conditions need to be provided to stop the detachment of rural areas and put them on a future development path. Again, they do not provide sufficient resources either for lower roads or for the development of rural community transport. And this is once again a situation, which we have heard from you many times, that in 2010 you have inherited from a certain point of view a difficult and difficult situation, but you are deepening these problems. So the proportion of lower roads to be renovated is constantly increasing, not working off the problem, but getting bigger. The same is true of water utilities. Under your governance, the number of failures has doubled since 2011, Mr Secretary, you are not facing this. Another issue that we have discussed many times is the question of universities. You, Prime Minister, Minister Palkovics also made quite amazing promises here at the end of January, at the beginning of February, that Hungarian universities could make historic development, here, come to the model change, under the irrevocable control of good little Fidesz curators, and then there will be 1500 billion development resources. Well, it turns out they lied about that, too, there's no $1,500 billion in development funding coming. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If I count correctly, this budget will amount to 119 billion forints. Dear Secretary of State, What I can tell you is that you are reviving the future, pawning the future of young Hungarians...
u2021-06-07-238	Thank you.
u2021-06-07-239	...and do not face the basic system problems. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm a little overconfident.
u2021-06-07-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. The next speaker is Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2021-06-07-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wanted one thing to be included here in Parliament's minutes, and that was also at the Budget Committee meeting, during which I wanted to ask for a separate vote on the institutions and other resources put forward by the Nationality Committee, that, of course, the opposition supports the initiatives that my fellow Member Ritter presented at the committee meeting. The majority in the government did not give us the opportunity to express our support. Here, too, I would like to assure you of our support among Parliament's walls, as well as of all nationalities. In addition, I owe you four indications: rough, thoughtless, uncertain and election. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-242	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, DK.
u2021-06-07-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to focus on sustainable development, environmental protection and nature conservation in the budget. I miss it, or at least I don't find it in all these huge piles where the parts of the national environmental programme are. I am a member of the Technical Committee, so I could ask as a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, but I have asked for the floor as a member of the DK faction. And I can't find any parts of the national climate change strategy, and these are pretty important things. I think if we consider that we are planning a budget in an eco-opinion, then we should find them at least somewhere, and they could be very small items. And I can't find the chapter on the national biodiversity strategy, how much it devotes, how much it spends in 2022. And I can't find any of the parts of the Kvassay Jenő plan through a water standard. I'm only listing these because if you don't find a number, then there's also the danger that it's not there. But there may also be a danger that I can't figure out the state budget after all these cycles. [[19.50]] In fact, I cannot find the important items that are outstanding in terms of sustainability, I think. These include environmental health issues. Now, in the absence of time, I wouldn't go through the dots to see what they are, but there should be a very significant bouquet here. And I can't find the chapters on national air load or its reduction, although I'm also highly interested in this and I'm also involved in constituencies, because M0, M3, many other air pollutions are constantly happening. The items of these in this budget are some artist, Rodolfo, to make up for where they are hidden. I think I can ask on behalf of several municipalities, but I ask on my own behalf where the chapters on the conservation of agriculture and forestry, soil protection and soil productivity can be found in this budget. I think that if I translate these programmes and translate what we have also sent to the European Union, there should be important chapters in the national budget that we intend to devote to this, as we also use European Union funds. I would also like to mention that, in addition to asking or commenting in the field of environmental protection, many items of climate policy are scattered in half a sentence, but in particular, those which represent complex issues of decarbonisation, I could not put them together. I've done all kinds of numbers... I've done statistics here, so many millions, that's it, they've sent something to this, too, so, you don't understand the system of this budget, how sustainability appears in this budget. I understood that the concrete can be detected, you can see: Lake Balaton, Lake Fertő, Lake Venice, Lake Tatai, we have the billions exactly, you can see that is clear. The rest of it just doesn't make sense to me that these things don't come up. Public money for public purposes, and you're looking for a place to hide this public purpose. There is also one that is strongly connected with transport, and I am thinking especially of the big city, especially Budapest, noise, exhaust gas, air pollution, so basically the infrastructure equipment that would reduce them, noise walls, avoidative roads and many other complexes can be listed. For lack of time, I'm looking at the clock, I'm running out of time, and I can't really explain it, this seven minutes is a pretty big pressure, but at least I can tell you more in such a short time. Finally, I would like to mention that on the issue of the viability of settlements, there must be a great wizard if someone in this budget can find a positive one in the messages of settlements. The sarcot, the withdrawal, the new tax, the new tax increase has been found, especially in the case of municipalities with a tax power. This year, the budget will withdraw 150 billion under the so-called clicking title, which is how I used to call something called the solidarity contribution, which is the only reduction in the budget, because the statement in the budget is that it will decrease by 20 billion. This is a great gift for us: first they take huge money and then they reduce 20 billion. At the same time, in the state in which the settlements will live 2022, the final removal of the vehicle tax means that this country will be full of potholes, all for road repairs, sidewalk repairs, parking repairs. For this reason, this budget is not the category that should be voted on. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-244	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, who is represented by the Government, to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a 30-minute time frame.
u2021-06-07-245	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Vice-President Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, as a representative of the majority opinion of Parliament's committees, mentioned the re-launch budget indicator, which we probably used most often in connection with this bill. Mr László Varju, who is also the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, said that the reality behind the re-launch is different, there are only Excel tables, the composition of appropriations, and this economic policy does not concern people. Then allow me to be the first to talk about the redeployment character of next year's budget, and that we believe that this budget can not only bring positive figures at macroeconomic level, whether it is economic growth or public debt financing, but that every person in everyday life will be felt in our hopes. Why you only mention, Mr President, that there is a number mystique here without any actual measures, I honestly do not understand. If we look at the bill in front of you and see that, in the context of the economic re-launch, people under the age of 25 will be free, the 13th month pension will be restored, the burden of employers will be reduced by 2 percentage points, the amount of renovations for home creation will be increased, then, to be honest, it is difficult to understand that only tables have been drawn up here, that we are presenting a re-launch of the economy on the basis of some tables, and that there would be no measure that is visible in everyday life. My first point is, therefore, that the economic policy, which is currently focused on closing the situation as soon as possible in the event of a coronal virus epidemic, focuses on a high level of economic growth as soon as possible, consists of concrete measures that are felt in everyday life. This coronal virus epidemic, which we believe to be an appropriate set of measures, based on reaction and response and the current assessment of the situation, actually results in a reduction in the sovereign debt ratio, and this crisis, this problem, if I mention sovereign debt, and this is my second point, is not related to the government. There was also a disagreement within the DK fraction. President Varju said that this situation was created by the government; Mrs Anett Bősz, I think she was absolutely correct when she said that the crisis was not the government's fault. At this point, let me tell you that the account cannot be submitted to the Crown Virus. What governments have been able to do in Europe, all over the world, is that, on the basis of well-established recipes, when an economic crisis arises, the government reacts to it in the context of so-called countercyclical economic policy. This means, in particular, that the burden on businesses has been reduced and reduced, in particular, that we have increased the amount of benefits to the population and families, and that the general government deficit has, as appropriate, increased and the public debt has also increased. But I am very pleased that President Varju has mentioned this, because at the end of the debate on the 2022 Budget Law proposal, we found a consensus point. Indebtedness is not good, and in the longer term it must be fought. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not true that the biggest debt has ever been incurred. Government debt is viewed in proportion to GDP by economists, market investors, all kinds of institutions. We know that, at the time of the change of government in 2010, the sovereign debt ratio was substantially higher, and we also know, Mr President, that there was not a single year between 2002 and 2010, when the Hungarian sovereign debt ratio did not increase. [[20.00]] And, Mr President, we also know very well that between 2011 and 2019 there has not been a single year when the debt ratio would not have decreased. Therefore, I would ask the Member to look at the reasons behind the increase in the sovereign debt ratio, the economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic. I also think it is worth taking into account that the debt ratio could also decrease this year and decrease next year, and it is also worth taking into account that the debt financing structure is completely different from that in the previous period. I repeat: in terms of indebtedness, as regards the debt ratio, I feel that we have reached a consensus at the end of the debate on the bill. What's the budget structure? In addition to focusing on the re-launch of the economy, which will benefit families and businesses, in addition to the reduction in this rate after the increase in the debt ratio in 2020, I believe that it is in everyone's interest, families and businesses, to focus essentially on investment. Here again I see a contradiction between the comments from the opposition benches, as it was said that the budget is not focused on people, but that it is pouring money into concrete, but that more people also talked about the need to spend extra money on road renovations. Well, road renovation is a stockpiling-investment expense. Therefore, when criticising the budget, I would ask you to take into account that under the Hungarian village programme there are road renovations that were not, or were not, three or four years ago before 2010. As far as the amendments are concerned, 1148 amendments were received from opposition benches. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, said that in the spirit of constructivity, some amendments could be supported by the government. Here's the next one. Our basic philosophy is that the economic policy that characterizes next year's budget bill, which focuses on work, focuses on supporting families, focuses on investment, has been successful in the language of numbers in recent years. This success can be interpreted at macroeconomic level: between 2014 and 2019, the average growth of the Hungarian economy was 4.1 percent, while the EU average was 2.1 percent; I have already mentioned that the debt ratio decreased, the deficit was permanently below 3 percent. And it can also be interpreted at the level of individuals: in these years, real wages increased by several percentage points, 3-4-5-6-7 percent wage increases, there was a year when I remember that there was an increase in real wages of 8 percent, so average wages increased by roughly one month. This economic policy, in our view, must continue to focus on work and investment, as this is progress for everyone. The amendments tabled by opposition representatives were about a whole different economic policy. This shows the basic income, which we do not believe to encourage work, but it also shows that it is not an alternative budget, but, in the case of the adoption of all the amendments taken into account as alternatives, a very radical increase in deficit and public debt. I understand that not all amendments have to be adopted, but I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Parliament to the fact that some factions are often overspending on the available framework. If I may point out one item: next year's reserve forecast, called extraordinary government measures, is HUF 145 billion, there is a faction that would regroup more than HUF 530 billion of this, but all the proposals submitted are HUF 1227 billion. I would like to draw President Varju's attention to the fact that the Democratic Coalition would regroup 100 billion, which alone does not include compliance with the Public Finance Act. Speaking of the Member's mention of the deficit level, the Stability Act, I think it is worth pursuing the current laws in this respect as well. These amendments, which came from the opposition benches, therefore contain a completely different economic philosophy, we do not believe that this will lead us forward. We know what the economic philosophy that the President spoke about before 2010 has resulted in, and we can see the numbers after 2010. The second element of constructivity is that Member Gergely Kálló said that in the years of governance since 2010, there were opposition amendments that were accepted by the government. Then I would ask Mr Kereszt that in the spirit of constructivity, you could find one budget or tax law that the opposition would have adopted. If you say that you have agreed with certain elements, but you don't agree with all of this, then I ask you how you can find a single shutdown bill that the opposition would have accepted, the closing proposals that showed that we had achieved, and even exceeded, the growth rate previously defined as government, the deficit target set in the past has been reached, and even exceeded, the level of wage growth set in the past has been reached and even exceeded. I therefore respectfully report that these were not accepted by the opposition either. Where's the constructivity? [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] Where's the constructivity? Allow me to respond to some more specific points. I mentioned the Stability Act. Congressman Varju has the opportunity to reiterate his position in the debate on the relevant bill. I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that if you believe that the amendment of the Stability Act is a flawed thing, that a deficit of more than 3 percent is planned next year, then the Democratic Coalition must also hold a serious debate with the European Commission, as the European Commission has initiated the suspension of the budgetary rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and a debate must be held in the 27 EU Member States, if I remember correctly, by 26. I therefore do not think that the truth is on that side; it is possible that on the motorway, many of the cars that are coming in front of it mean that the person was driving the highway in the wrong direction. [[László Varju: We're ahead in the bend!]] As regards the nature of the election budget, President Varju has also mentioned this, and many have mentioned it, we all know that for the 2002 or 2006 budgets it was really possible to say "election budget" because it was a radical increase in public finances that was far from the EU's trends, and there was an increase in public debt in an absolute economic period. In 2020-21-22, Hungarian fiscal policy is fully in line with the EU trend that good financial countries can follow, namely those countries that are capable of countercyclical economic policy, which are able, say, to increase wages instead of reducing wages, which are able to increase pensions instead of reducing pensions, let us say. I would therefore like to draw the Member's attention, Mr President, to the fact that, at European level, this is a step out of the deficit level, and let us also look at the fact that this year we are counting on a reduction in the debt ratio, as opposed to at least half of the countries of the European Union. The opinion of the Fiscal Council did not say one important thing. The Fiscal Council considered that the reduction in the debt ratio laid down in the Fundamental Law was realistic. As far as the macro-track is concerned in President Varju's comments, I thank the President very much for bringing this up, because when the debate on the draft budget law started, more people said that he might be optimistic at 4.3 percent this year or 5.2 percent next year. The forecasts of international organisations, the European Commission or the International Monetary Fund were already known, but thank God, in the last few weeks quarterly growth figures have become known: compared to the last quarter of 2020, there has been a 2 percent increase. With all due respect, I can report to Parliament that the economic growth planned for this year is now more cautious, from which we can hope that there will be more budget revenue, and from this we can hope that budget revenue will also increase in the next year's draft budget law. I would like to point out that the part of the loan of the recovery fund does not draw funds from the budget of 2022, as expressed by Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi. [[20.10]] Congresswoman said that HUF 3300 billion is dropped from the 2022 budget. That part of the loan covered the funding of several years, and in addition to the fact that there are different funding channels for the implementation of the projects, the credit that can be borrowed from the European Commission is a channel, there are also a number of market solutions. Here, I believe it is necessary for the opposition to consult, since it already consults on many things, how the inclusion of this total amount will affect the debt ratio. What is also important, in my view, is that, on the basis of consultations with the European Commission, the vast majority of Member States do not require this credit at all. So there is a reason why there is an EU credit facility, and the vast majority of Member States say that thank you very much, I do not want any of this. I fully agree with the congresswoman that the presentation of reality is important. That's what he said about media funding. I think we all have a responsibility to show reality accurately. And I would like to turn this to the observation that Congresswoman Anett Bősz said about the number of people who live on the minimum wage. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is also worth watching the dynamics. Of course, as long as there are families living below the minimum living age, we cannot be satisfied, but I would point out that the number of people employed is now about 800 thousand more than in 2010. I also draw attention to the fact that the minimum wage has increased substantially both nominally and in real terms compared to 2010. I also draw attention to the fact that, to varying degrees, the European Union's analysis of all the regions of Hungary in the ranking of the EU regions has come to light in the course of the debate on the draft budget law. Of course, we still have work to do, and I fully agree with that, and I will always agree with the woman who represents it, but I repeat, the economic policy that the budget reflects has, in recent years, been a step forward in reducing the number of people living below the minimum, in terms of the number of people employed, and we hope that this can also be the case in 2022. Local government grants, also mentioned by Mrs Anett Bősz and by Mr László Hajdu. I would like to say that the budgetary relations of the municipalities can be extended in 2022 if the Parliament adopts the Government's motion. The amount of the solidarity contribution is falling, and due to economic growth, local government business tax revenues may increase, and the amount of budget support may increase by HUF 8 billion. Imre Ritter, on the point made by the national minority representative, while we are talking about budgetary winners, while we are talking about how support programmes are expanding, I would also like to remind you that this HUF 2 billion increase in minority support, which he spoke about next year, is in line with the trend that we have seen in recent years. In 2014, total ethnic support amounted to HUF 4.7-4.8 billion. We can now talk about the budget of 2022 that this is a substantial increase of over HUF 18 billion, so there is also a dynamic growth in this area, so that by the end of 2019 the state financial indicators were well developed, and we hope that this can also be the case in 2022. I agree with the need for crisis-resistant patriot economic policy from the remarks made by Mr Lóránt László Keresztes. In the context of crisis resilience, let us note that in 2008-2009 there was such a crisis at global level. At that time, the world economy's GDP was around zero, the Hungarian economy dropped significantly more than the European Union's downturn; we remember what measures were taken during that period. And now the Hungarian economy has proved to be much more crisis-resistant, as while we see a 3 percent decline at the level of the global economy, much greater than in 2008-2009; we see a decline of over 6 percent at the level of the European Union, the Hungarian economy has dropped less than the EU average. It's an open economy, I think it's a merit. This shows the crisis resistance and the crisis resistance that we have been able to maintain the level of employment at a level of 4.5 to 4.6 percent, and the level of crisis resistance shows how the first quarter of 2021 growth has evolved. Budapest-Belgrád railway, leader of the group, in virtually every second and third comment, as far as I have followed him, he makes it known, of course, that is the right of Mr. Group leader. I would like to point out that when it is about individual large investments and, let us say, raising the countryside, we should also put proportions together. In the rural development programme, it was said that the former domestic funding goes from 17.5 per cent to the maximum 80 per cent. Congressman, this means that the average Hungarian co-financing rate will rise to over HUF 400 billion on an annual average basis. It has also been said that 2022 is still a transitional year, but please, if you compare this one item with the financing of Budapest-Belgrád, you can see that there are not only such specific large projects in the draft budget for next year, but also a number of measures that favour individuals and families living in the countryside, typically operating in a family economy or working in small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian village programme contains substantial resources for road renovations in the draft budget for next year. Finally, on the suggestion of Mr László Hajdu, allow me not to detail all the lines of the bill before you, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that environmental spending will increase by around HUF 50 billion overall in 2022 compared to 2021. These expenditures are included in a number of budget headings. I would like to send to Mr President a table detailing the location of expenditure for environmental protection. Of course, these expenditures also finance the fight against climate change, and it is also natural that not all items are included in this line. We believe that investment in Paks is indeed a substantial step forward against climate change, against CO2 emissions. Obviously, the issue of the Paks investment is not included on this line. National Biodiversity Programme, yes, this is an important programme, the budget of the Agricultural Ministry has resources for this, as well as for agriculture and forestry; if I have already mentioned the rural development programme, then I think that, by increasing the resources of the rural development programme, the budget of 22 is moving towards the goal that you consider important. I therefore think that there is a proposal for a budget law for next year before the Honourable Parliament, which will open up opportunities for both families and those who live from work and those who are committed to work next year. It opens opportunities either by increasing pensions or reducing people under the age of 25 or by providing support for home creation, which can be achieved overall while maintaining the stability of public finances, which, overall, can be achieved with a reduction in the debt ratio, of course, with countless tasks ahead of us, but, again, based on the experience of recent years, we have a good hope that this budget will be enforceable and maintained if the Parliament adopts the Government's motion. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-07-246	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2022 and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now under way. The government referral T/16210. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. [[20.20]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-07-247	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16210 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2022. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As we are accustomed to, the government has submitted next spring's budget, so this House must discuss the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2022 at the same time as the budget. The bill before us amends a number of pieces of legislation, the main aim of which is to ensure harmonisation, in order to ensure that the budget and tax laws are consistent and to ensure smooth implementation. So it is no coincidence that these three legislative proposals are always discussed at the same time by the Parliament. The summarised amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee contains a number of additional clarifications, as well as codification and language positioning amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that together with the summarised amendment proposal, we have a bill that will ensure the regularity and legality of the 2022 budget for the adoption of the Budget Act, so I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-07-248	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says not this time. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Budgets did not draft a rapporteur. I now give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian nationalities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. You have a six-minute time frame.
u2021-06-07-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. .akujem za slovo pán predseda. Vážený pán predseda, vážené panie poslankyne, vážení pani poslanci! Ako Národnostným výborom poverený hovorca vo svojom príhovore prezentujem stanovisko Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/16210 o príprave ústredného rozpočtu Ma.arska na rok 2022. Výbor predložený návrh na základe bodov 44-45 rokovacieho poriadku podrobne prerokoval na svojom zasadnutí 27th May. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, As the invited rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I present to the Committee the T/16210. on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2022. Our committee, as a committee related to the debate, is responsible for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of 10/2014. Decision No 44 and 45 On 27 May 2021, it held a detailed debate on the proposal. No amendments were tabled to the bill. The Committee on Nationalities initiated a discussion of its intention to further amend the Committee on Legislative Affairs. The bill on the agenda is 25. § 2 of the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 51 It proposed to add the following paragraph: It does not constitute unlawful use of budgetary support, other than aid, if the local government, beneficiary, makes use of temporarily free funds resulting from budget support for development and investment by purchasing sovereign debt, provided that this does not jeopardise the achievement of the objective of the aid by the deadline. The local government, beneficiary, may use the resulting return and interest income exclusively for expenditure related to the supported activity. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary initiated the amendment of the cited text by proposing that the beneficiary group referred to in the proposal be supplemented by your local minority self-governments and national minority self-governments. According to the Ministry of Finance's original justification, the amendment aims to bring to legal level the rules on the use of subsidies at the level of the current government regulation. In our view, the above justification can be extended to local and national national authorities, even given that more and more reconstruction projects on the property of the institution that has been taken over by the national authorities last several years, and not in one case, when the procurement procedure is opened, the necessary support will be paid to the national authorities concerned, which will be due up to a year later. In our view, it is therefore appropriate that the investment option contained in the draft should therefore be opened to this group of beneficiaries. The Legislative Committee has accepted our initiative, and this is already the proposal for an amendment in the summary amendment, and we thank you for that. With this amendment, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposed the T/16210 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2022. The Commission proposes to adopt bill No 1. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-07-250	Thank you very much, Mr Antal Paulik. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I don't see any contact yet. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask you if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Since there is no candidate on the screen, the debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if she wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak.
u2021-06-07-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say that if the previous item was constructive and there are no objections now, and there was little in the preliminary debate, then perhaps they can support the ground-breaking bill that is in many respects linked to next year's draft budget law. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-252	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports submitted to the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the publication of the protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the granting of State loans to finance the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal will follow. The government referral is T/16209. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Csaba Nagy, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-07-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Protocol between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the granting of State loans to finance the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary T/16209. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Russian-Hungarian Interstate Loan Agreement for the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was effectively applied in 2017 due to the procedures initiated by the European Commission and the delay in the investment in part due to these procedures, in parallel with the actual implementation of the investment. [[20.30]] Due to the delay in time, it became necessary to amend the agreement in order to ensure that the credit line granted by the Russian Federation was granted by Paks II. Investment should be available until the planned autumn of 2030. The negotiations started formally in 2018, entering a meaningful phase in 2019 and 2020. The negotiations were successfully concluded in February 2021. A total interest-rate charge of EUR 3581 million will be added to the loan during the period of repayment of capital between 2031 and 2046 with an average annual interest rate of 4,873%. This is EUR 400 million lower than the 2019 proposal, which represents an aggregate interest rate of EUR 3991 million and an aggregate interest rate of 4,887 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement will remain in force with unchanged content, thus highlighting that the possibility of free prepayment will continue. Thus, according to the actual progress of the project, the agreement provides the resources flexibly, but, in the case of favourable market conditions for the financing of the public debt, already drawn credit instalments can be replaced by funds providing a more favourable financial condition without the additional costs to be paid to the Russian party. The bill proposes the final establishment and publication of the text of the amendment to the agreement. The Government's decision was authorised by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation to establish definitively the legal basis for the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the granting of State loans to finance the Hungarian nuclear power plant construction contained in a government decision. In accordance with this Government Decision, the bill was submitted to Parliament in view of the fact that Article 7 of Act L of 2005 was amended in accordance with Article 7 of the Act. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Protocol, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Protocol. The Paks II. The project contributes significantly to maintaining Hungary's secure, affordable and climate-friendly electricity supply. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the successful negotiations of the government, Hungary had a positive change in the financing contract for the Paks expansion. The new agreement does not affect the level of interest, but the loan, the repayment of the loan's capital, will only have to start in 2031 after the two new power plant blocks have been put into operation. The cost of this can already be generated by the power plant. This loan is considered by the Hungarian government as a safety net, as from the EUR 10 billion credit line we always draw only as much as the costs incurred during the period. In view of what has been said, I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-07-254	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State, if you would like to comment now or in the closing section. [[Gábor Gion: In the end.]] It says it's gonna end up in the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, Congressman, LMP.
u2021-06-07-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is not surprising, but I do not agree with Mr Csaba Nagy, and I do not agree, and we do not agree with the government. We believe that this proposal is unacceptable. I would like to refer very briefly to what has been said in the general debate and what has now been said, and I think that some things need to be clarified. The Hungarian government gave this gigantic project, Hungary's largest project, to the Russians without a tender, based on lies and mistakes. It is very interesting, by the way, to point out to the European Commission to the government, they always have different sitches for the European Commission; of course, when we can agree on a few things, they will show it as some kind of verification stamp. We are not reassured by the European Commission's position, and we can say that this project is extremely harmful to Hungary: it is not beneficial, it is negative, and nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap and it is not safe. Once again, the Commission's investigation has led to such a slippage in the project. This was essentially because the Russians were not able to deliver the plans to the right deadline, in an appropriate capacity and in accordance with EU standards and standards. I still remember, in July 2019 I asked questions to the Minister for Enlargement at János Süli's annual ministerial hearing, who said I would try to quote it literally in July 2019 that the Russians were now studying the Hungarian technical environment and had no idea when the Minister would submit the design documentation. And where was this particular EU inquiry then? Now, not so long ago, the electronic public hearing record has come to light, where we see quite shocking statements. So far, 500 problems and shortcomings in the Paks expansion have been identified by the licensing authority, the National Atomic Energy Agency, and we find comments that the documentation is not uniform, its detail is not uniform, it is not of uniform quality. It can therefore be seen that this authorisation process is going on for a very long time. He also requested an extension of the deadline for OAH, several months of extension. So it can be seen that the justification for giving the project to the Russians at the time, that they are capable of doing so alone, does not fundamentally hold up. And then the question arises, which, for some reason, the government does not speak of, they are modestly silent, that if the Russians caused such a slip, then why could not at least make the conditions less unfavourable. So, basically, Mr Csaba Nagy also said that the conditions of interest could not be modified, simply that the repayment must start later, but the end-date of the repayment is the same, so much more has to be repaid in a shorter time, but the same absolutely unfavorable interest rates remain alive. By the way, in the Russian press, this was pronounced as an exercise of Russian interests. That's pretty pathetic. I think that the Hungarian Government should have fought to try to enforce Hungarian interests, and that loan with extremely negative and very bad interest rates is basically tried to renegotiate and achieve better conditions. That didn't work out at all. When the government side talks about the possibility of producing affordable-priced electricity with the new Paks blocks, we always draw attention to the fact that they forget to include essential items, such as the extremely gigantic costs of the future decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, and the costs of final disposal of nuclear waste, although this will also be included, this will also have to be paid by the Hungarian people, and it will not have to be paid in advance, not when the time for the decommissioning of the blocks comes, as we have already discussed this today. In order to have the right amount of money available in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, the nuclear power plant will have to make every year a level of development that they will obviously be able to collect from electricity prices. So it's far from real when you're talking about it being cheap. Once again, they do not talk about the fact that the Paks expansion itself requires quite amazing network development and network expansion, the cost of which is again not included in these gigantic and horrific costs. And I just want to make one more point. I am sorry that Secretary of State Steiner is no longer here, although my fellow Member is certainly interested in this subject, because he said that it has not yet been defined where the underground storage facility will be in Hungary, where high-activity waste and spent fuel will be placed. Yes, you can. We know exactly that there is a decision that we need a deep-geological storage unit, and it has also been decided that this is researched exclusively on a site in the Bodai Claystone Formation area. So the decision has been made that the government wants to implement such a deep geological storage there, and only in the last few years, since Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised that there would be no such object without the consent of the region, 8 billion HUF has been spent on this. So we can see that both the government and Viktor Orbán ignored the promise they made to the people of Pécs and Baranya. And you can see that this question, just as it has not been resolved anywhere in the world, so in Hungary, what we do with high-activity nuclear waste and spent fuel. At the same time, this proposal is completely unacceptable, and we believe it is against Hungarian interests, so the LMP faction will vote against it. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-256	Thank you very much, Mr László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, DK. [[20.40]]
u2021-06-07-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Although it is a proposal to reschedule a loan transfer, I think, given that this whole Paks II world is based on encrypted documents, so we do not know much about why and what its content is, so I will raise two questions as a member of the Committee for Sustainable Development and as a member of the Group, which probably does not affect the signing of this agreement, but it is extremely important to know this clearly for the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, but also for the people of the country. One is that there is a hydrocooling power plant, and the importance of this cooling for sustainable development is that the water yield of the Danube, especially its dry-time water yield, when there is no water from melting and rain, is not enough to ensure cooling for the period when Paks I operates for about 8-10 years, and Paks II is already in operation. But it is also a question, and it is not technically proven, or at least we cannot see these documents, that when Paks I stops, Paks II. With such increased capacity, huge water demand, the Danube is able to ensure the only cooling system in the Danube itself is the water cooling of this power plant. On one occasion, when we were in Paks, we looked partly at the working power plant, on the other hand, only at the place where they were going to build it, but I think that in such uncertainty, when we basically know nothing about the water cooling that represents steering, what dangers it contains. Because there are technical solutions, of course, such as building a water escape, and then, by water retention, cooling is solved. But then it must be said honestly that we're preparing a butthole that big, which is basically nothing more than a water escape, and then we're trying to fix the cooling with water retention. That's one of the things I'd like to raise on the issue of such a loan agreement. The other is related to the fact that this power plant is a completely different technology, requires different skills and many professionals. Where will human personnel be trained? If, let's say, this is happening in Russia, and it's obviously happening there, because for the time being, it's not clear here at our house that the foundation trainer will be able to solve this, then what kind of guarantee is that we can operate it ourselves, or that the Russians might be able to operate it for us in Gebin. These two questions are sensitive enough for a Member of Parliament to ask such a silly question because of the lack of knowledge of classified documents. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-258	Thank you very much, Congressman László Hajdu. I would like to ask the honourable Parliament that, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2021-06-07-259	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a debate on amending the financing contract for the Paks project, not the Paks project itself. So the technical questions that appear to be justified by Mr Hajdu, I think, should be asked by the competent wallet, who is responsible for the project, and will certainly receive a professional response from them. To Mr. Crusade Leader, I try so hard to limit myself to the credit agreement that, first of all, nuclear energy is green. This is also stated in the EU Taxonomy, among other things. Otherwise, carbon neutrality does not exist, according to the currently known alternative technologies, it cannot be achieved without nuclear power. You'd better consult with any energy expert and confirm that. What really relates to the credit agreement is the level of interest. This has also been raised in the general debate, and we have also answered it, but I think the Member has already had to leave, but I will repeat it now. I couldn't agree more. In the current interest rate environment, this level of interest is high, higher than that which can be achieved on the market. But what gives us the possibility of a credit agreement is that it can be repaid for a special fee. So the practice so far has been, so far we've drawn funds from the loan, taken out the loan, and refinanced it the next day at a cheaper rate on the market, and immediately cancelled without any additional costs. This will be the practice as long as the market interest environment is at this low level. Since this is a very long-term loan, there is absolutely no guarantee that the interest rate environment will remain as low globally for 20-25 years as it is now. A moment may come when this interest that now appears to be high will otherwise be more favourable than the market. If we do not achieve this, we will simply refinance it on the market. I think that by extorting at any time without any extra costs, this will solve this problem. It's just that it's decommissioning costs. It is not strictly related to this, but let me assure Mr Kereszt from my professional experience that it is an accounting obligation that the current decommissioning costs should be taken into account in the accounting accounts and built on a provision. So it's in the cost structure of any power plant. Believe me, I've looked at enough books to confirm that for you. Therefore, these costs are constantly cleared, set aside and provided for, so this is reflected in current prices. So it's not a one-off cost item at the very end, it's a continuous item. By the way, I felt that the amendments to you, which were merely technical amendments, did not receive any comments, so I thank you for your constructive attitude and for your support for the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-260	Thank you very much, Secretary Gábor Gion. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, notary, applied for a post-meeting speech:. More Balaton! ? It's an address. I give the floor to Jobbik's representative. Mr. Messenger!
u2021-06-07-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Most Hungarian people are now concerned about what will happen in the summer, because the good weather has come, the summer is coming, the school is about to end, and the little freedom they have left, or where their weekends will be spent meaningfully. In this respect Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made a very clear statement a year ago, which is, I quote, more Balaton, less Adria. This can be supported, but there are several criteria for a pleasant holiday in Balaton. The first is the safe and comfortable accessibility of the Hungarian sea, and then the quality, quality and quality of the services, the existence of paying customers, and not least this year the protection certificate. [[20.50]] Let's go over how we can approach Lake Balaton. We regret that the three-track extension of the M7 motorway to at least 90 kilometres has not been completed in the last year. It is expected that traffic jams will make it difficult to get ahead on weekends and return to the capital. I have no good news for the cyclists, because the bicycle route connecting the capital with Balaton has not been completed either, nor has the bike route connecting the Mesztgnyő with the Balatonmária bath been completed in my constituency. As regards tourist attractions, the children's camp in Fonyódliget is also closed, and the children's camp in Balatonberény, which was owned by the state, was sold by the Fidesz government, so children are not expected to be on vacation there, and the Fonyód lookout tower is also closed, waiting for renovation, and not least the small railway in Mestgő was closed. How are we doing with paying customers, when nearly 40 percent of Hungarians live on less salary than before, when nearly one million pensioners have to come out of 100 thousand forints a month and tens of thousands of our fellow citizens continue to work in the public works program for 54 thousand forints a month? The bad news is that these people will also have to pay 360 for the ice cream dumplings, 800 forints for a scone, and surprisingly 900 forints for a pint of beer on the shore of Lake Balaton. It's getting tighter, my fellow Members. But I will go on: those who still have money for these services, prices, and most of them are discriminated against by the government. Nearly half of the Hungarian people do not have a protection certificate, so they can't go to restaurants, hotels, theatres, concerts or sports events, gyms, gyms, baths and swimming pools without a terrace, even though this is the beach season. Not everyone can go to circuses, movies, playhouses, wildlife parks and zoos. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not an epidemiological expert, and I continue to urge everyone to comply with the rules, but as a fact, I note that the current regulations will make the vacation of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen in Balaton miserable and partially impossible, especially for families with small children who traditionally spend their free time and stay there in the southwest of Lake Balaton, because the rate of grafting is even lower among them. We have not even talked about hosts, accommodation and municipalities, who will lose significant revenues because of these measures. So the more Balatons are a clear message, an objective to support, but the conditions must also be created, paying customers, convenient access to Lake Balaton and, not least, affordable services and non-discriminatory, non-discriminatory participation in the use of these services. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-07-262	Thank you very much, Congressman Steinmetz, notary. Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I have spoken this way on several occasions, after the agenda, for the sake of the district and for matters relating to the district. I do not do any different today, and I bring here a problem that, although it may sound strange and perhaps unimaginable from Budapest, may make the lives of thousands of people in Hungary in the countryside, in Matraalya, miserable and bitter everyday life. This is the maintenance of our water system. When the debate on the European Union's seven-year financial cycle was taking place here in this House, I also said in the debate that, according to some experts, HUF 1000 and other experts, HUF 3000 billion are needed in order to modernise our water network because it is so outdated that we can face a kind of disaster if we do not devote ourselves to it. Unfortunately, I am aware that this item has not been included in our draft budget for the European Union, although it is very important. I also came up with a proposal for a decision, which unfortunately was voted off by the Economic Committee, in order to give local authorities more leeway in terms of how much they can spend on the waste water network and the water network. It would be extremely important, because there are a lot of settlements in Hungary where the water network could collapse. Now let me give you a specific example. It is the section between Mátraalján Mátraderecske and Mátraballa that has become increasingly critical in recent decades. He was critical decades ago, and now not a month goes by without a half - day or even a one - day truce. There's been a lot of promises. I would like to mention that the workers of the waterworks have had their hats off, because, for example, two years ago, Christmas Eve was not spent with their families, but with the maintenance and repair of the water network, but at the same time, there may be a loss for a day or two, before they can replace a tube or a fitting on the very old, worn-out section. This whole situation, by the way, is extremely unworthy of the people and everyone who live there. It tests two things: the tolerance of the people there and, as I have already mentioned, the ability of professionals and experts to work. There have been many promises, as I mentioned, many promises in this regard. Unfortunately, no adequate resources have ever been invested in this area, even in the Mátraballa-Mátraderecs section I mentioned, but in many areas of the country there are similar problems, they can come up and they will come up more and more; so we must devote ourselves to this. It was a promise, there is a promise, but it is important that this be done, because it is a good time now, we could begin to do these work, and I will turn to the government in writing. I could do it orally, only I want a professional answer, not the political one that, by the way, opposition representatives get when they ask a question. So I'm going to go to the government in writing to make sure that this summer they really want to replace it and have cover for the plumbing section that, by the way, makes the entire population of Mátraballa impossible and unworthy of their everyday life. There is a need for this to happen, and I trust there will be a will. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-264	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a post-meeting speech: -Why it must be done! It's called the 1st.
u2021-06-07-265	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. I am a Member of Parliament recently, I was elected a little over a year ago, and I clearly remember that this time last year, before summer, before Parliament went on a summer holiday, I applied for a speech after the agenda. (The presidency of Dr. Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The address of the speech after the agenda was that we could go on a restful recess of several months with a calm conscience. This speech was about animal protection. We are in the same shoes again, my fellow Members. The Hungarian Parliament is preparing for summer recess again, and I have to ask again how we can go with a calm conscience for summer break. There have been substantial changes since last year. We've appointed a Prime Minister's Commissioner for Animal Protection, which is a good and supportive thing. [[21.00]] Now let's nuance the picture a little bit, because since last year, they have also done so since a year ago, that an expensive online national consultation on animal protection has been launched. I agree that we should ask people what their views are on this issue, but, at the same time, I am sorry, but I consider the spent forints unnecessary, because it would have been enough to ask the civilians who have done this heroic task since the change of regime in place of politics and the Hungarian state, so in the last 30 years. It would have been enough to ask them what they needed in order to operate a serious and effective system for the protection of animals. Last time we received news that something had happened: Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, recently announced at a conference that 67 civil society companies would receive HUF 141 million, which had sworn to protect animals. That's good news, I'll take it, I'll admit it, but let's look behind the numbers. What does that mean, 141 million forints? I called a very dear friend of mine, who, in the last 30 years, has been in a heroinic struggle to protect animals instead of the state, and to save animals, and I asked him what this number means, because if we divide 141 million forints between 67 NGOs, this means that he has received 2 million forints and only one forints if we average. He spoke of very large numbers, so if he buys the best quality of animal food and gives it to the animals he trusts as a dinner, then that means he can provide the animals for 14 days, I say once again, with the best quality of food for dinner. 14 days! So after we appointed an animal welfare commissioner, after we conducted a high-priced consultation, we got to the point where we could provide dinner for 14 days for dogs, cats, and outcast animals of a dog police facility. Is that the result? Can we talk about doing this right? No, we can't talk about it. I also submitted proposals for a budget amendment, and I asked very little: I asked for a regional development of the tadpoles, and I asked for money to ensure that animals were protected by the Constitution. You swept this down, and instead, in the last year 141 million forints have been distributed, which, I say again, is 2 million forints per organisation. So what I said a year ago, I have to tell you right now: we can't go to summer break with a calm conscience, because dog fights will continue. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We're gonna get news of how many animals have been tortured, and we're gonna get a list, but we haven't done anything yet. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-266	Thank you and with respect to my fellow Members. I would also like to address Lóránt László Keresztes, the leader of the LMP faction, who will address his speech with the title "Pécs 66." Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-06-07-267	Thank you very much for the floor. I, too, welcome Mr. President to this late hour. In my speech after today's agenda, as usual, I am talking about the problems of my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya, and I can tell you that there will not be a positive sound of this speech. I have talked many times about the problems that our region is facing, and what wrong decisions we have seen here, even in the last decade, but we can say that over the past decades, and I also talk about what we should do, what tasks we have to do to stop this break-down, the break-down of the region, and some meaningful development in the region. Today, the debate on next year's budget has practically ended, at the committee meeting earlier, and I have to confront the government side with something quite shocking. I can say that the Fidesz-KDNP once again betrayed Pécs, betrayed Komlo, betrayed Kozármisleny, betrayed all of Baranya County, and thus the lobbying power of Peter Hoppál, Erik Bánki, Csaba Nagy and János Harghitai proved to be virtually insufficient. It is quite astonishing that the government side that outsourced and politically controlled the University of Pécs is the Fidesz-KDNP, which wants to spend 550 billion on the Chinese Communist Party University, which wants to spend 1000 billion on the development of the Budapest-Belgrade railway line, also the Fidesz-KDNP, which will spend 65 billion forints on the MotoGP or 70 billion forints on the hunting exhibition, said no to every amendment proposal submitted by the opposition, which was submitted by the LMP faction, and what I submitted, specifically for the development of Pécs and its region, Pécs and Baranya county. They said no to the return of the abstract vehicle tax income in Pécs; a loss of HUF 480 million meant only this one item. I also proposed for Komló to receive this lost item with HUF 51 million, which would have been HUF 27 million in the case of Kozármisleny, but all the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP said no to this in the Committee on Budgets. We know that Pécs is a city in a very difficult situation, but it is by far the weakest of the large rural regional centres, and the balance of the last few decades has been quite amazing: in 2019, the failed Fidesz city leadership handed over control of the city with over 20 billion dollars in debt. We know, therefore, that the city was in a difficult situation, and that the coronal virus epidemic and the economic crisis caused great damage, so I proposed compensation of HUF 4.5 billion to minimise this loss, which was also said by Fidesz-KDNP representatives. There is a huge deficiency that the single transport system has not been implemented in the last decade, and we do not see a trace of a transport reform that is needed. It is quite clear that Pécs, Baranya and we can say that a single transport system with modes connected with the Pécs centre and the tariff community would be essential for the whole region. I asked for 2 billion forints, and the government representatives said no to that too. This would have allowed people living in Komlón, for example, but those working in Pécs, to enter Pécs with the same lease and use local public transport in Pécs. Once again, this task will wait for a new government and new representatives to provide the resources for this. I also proposed 5 billion forints in Pécs and Komló for the development of local public transport. Everyone in Pécs knows exactly how bad the vehicle park is and how old it is, and in all respects, from both the side of accident risk, comfort and air purity, environmental sustainability, it would be essential to develop this fleet. This year, Peter Hoppál's colleagues and fellow factions said no. It is a huge task, and we know that the recultivation of the uranium mine, and the recultivation of the former uranium mine, unfortunately, is a never-ending task. The recultivation of the Karolina study is also a huge task; this dust load is very serious for the city; I proposed 2 billion forints, which was also rejected. I proposed HUF 3 billion for the development of lower roads in Baranya County; Fidesz and KDNP said no. Today, we have talked about the situation of water utilities in extremely poor condition. In the case of Kozármisleny, I proposed HUF 300 million and HUF 600 million for Komló and HUF 2 billion for Pécs; this was also rejected. We know that only Tettye Forrás Zrt. working in Pécs. Fidesz-KDNP also refused to provide the most important public service, maintenance and replacement work. What I can say is that we have development plans and programmes, all we need now is representatives of Pécs and representatives of Baranya who really work for the people who live there. Pécs and Baranya deserve more, and these traitorous representatives must be expelled in the election next year. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-07-268	Thank you. Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, from Fidesz, asked to speak after the agenda on developments in Győr. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of the Parliament of the town of Győr County, I asked for an opportunity to speak. My education and interest are primarily focused on urban development and cultural life, the development of cultural life, but I would like to say a few thoughts about urban development, in particular with regard to the Modern Cities programme. [[21.10]] In 23 county towns of Hungary, nearly two million inhabitants live, and according to their role in the settlement network these settlements have a decisive regional organizational power. The county-righted cities were placed at the forefront of government development policy, which is also well shown by the launch of the "Modern Cities" programme in April 2015. The Prime Minister met with the mayors in a countrywalk and agreed with the cities in development packages. The 23 county-owned cities were agreed on the implementation of some 270 project elements, which cost a minimum of HUF 3500 billion in 2017 prices. The agreement with Győr was signed by the Prime Minister in April 2017. Győr can expect a total of nearly HUF 130 billion of development resources under the MVP, which could otherwise be provided by the municipality from its own resources in a decade and a half, so the development programme represents a significant additional resource for the city. As a Member of the Parliament of Győr, two of the 18 development projects of the Modern Cities programme concerning our city have already been completed: the development of the parking infrastructure of the University of Petz Aladár has been transferred and the property necessary for further development of Széchenyi István University has also been purchased by the Hungarian State. Four projects, the construction of the new water park in Győr, the comprehensive development of the Xantus János Zoo, the renovation of the Győr-Ménfőcsanak-Győrújbarát-nyúl road section, and the construction of the bicycle route between the world heritage of Győr and Pannonhalma are currently under construction. According to my information, I am in contact with the ministries, the design companies, and the State Secretariats, the three new projects of the programme in Győr are already in the final phase of preparation. This is the development of the new science and innovation park of Széchenyi István University, which is also in the area of the former Győr Biscuit Factory, and is expected to take place within a few months, as well as the launch of the works. In a short time, the public procurement procedure will be announced, and I am working on this myself, so that this happens as quickly as possible in the continuation of Industry Street, on the internal relief road connecting the towns of Gyárváros and Bácsa, and on the transfer of a new ambulance, an ambulance, in Győr just last week. I also consulted the mayor and the Director General of the National Rescue Service on the construction of the new rescue station in Győr, as there are also advanced plans. I hope that even this year the construction of the new Győr rescue station can begin, but not later than the first half of next year. All the developments that I have listed are particularly important not only for the city of Győr but also for the region, and I am working on, together with the Mayor of Győr and my fellow Member of Parliament, Ákos Kara, so that these developments can be launched and implemented as soon as possible. As I see it, we are doing well on a pro rata basis, and I am very confident that this process will not stop, and we are lobbying government agencies, working to achieve these improvements, because, as I said, this will serve not only Győr, but also the region. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-07-270	Thank you. What's happening in Újpesten? Mr László Varju, representative of DK, asked to speak after the agenda with a title. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-07-271	Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. Dear House, I would like to draw attention to the difference between words and actions, while the Fidesz-KDNP operation in the past, how much government activity, for example, is only about concreteling, concreteling and concreteling, while there are other problems affecting people. All that the government is doing, for example, in addition to funding and concreteizing a Chinese university in Budapest, when they are doing concreteization of the World Hunting Exhibition, is that the real question when we talk about the problems of many Hungary? I don't think so. And then we can move on, because people are more affected by a 0.6 percent pension increase. Perhaps it's about record inflation, rising food prices, that's the real question? The looting of people's local governments, or even the construction of other urban green surfaces? I think these are the real questions that make people's lives and their circumstances easier or better. In my constituency, Újpesten, this is no different, and I believe that the majority is clearly voting for the latter, which means for me that most people want a change of government. As in the whole country, so in Újpesten, there will be an opposition pre-election to support and assist this, where a six-party opposition and republican alliance is trying to find the best candidates, where I would like to start in this context. But not only do we need candidates, but we also need to see what their activities are like for these candidates, what they offer to voters. Just in order to have more knowledge and more knowledge in this, I invite everyone on the varjulaszlo.hu website to community programme work on Friday, where all stakeholders can express their views on issues affecting the constituency. Of course, we are dealing with health, housing issues, a panel renovation programme that significantly affects my district, transport, public safety or the greening that is very important to me, which fortunately also characterizes the results of district government operations, we can give more and more of these examples. There is, for example, the possibility of expanding or developing the Danube coast. But part of my constituency is XIII. The northern part of the district to Gyöngyösi utca, so of course I am also curious about the opinion of the people who live here. The question about the Népsziget or the question about the rental program is raised here, as it is right here in everyday life, what is happening in Hungary, in the districts of the capital, with the rent apartments which the government is planning to force the municipalities to sell. I would like to point out that there is a possibility of personal expression at all points. This is not a pseudoconsultation, where you can answer directed questions, but we are very much counting on you to share your views with me in a longer way. In particular, to give an example, I have gained a lot of experience in the last few days in the framework of the European Green Week, since there are not big issues in the field, but small ones, ranging from planting trees to parking or using modern tools that make our environment more livable. All in all, I therefore recommend that everyone take this opportunity to help us work together by engaging in Community programming by expressing their opinion. Based on these opinions, we can now talk not only about my programme, but also about our joint programme, as well as about the proposal of tens of thousands of voters. This is the basis for my work to be able to continue in the next session here in Parliament, representing the voters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-272	Thank you. Our next speaker was Mr Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, who spoke to Mr Fidesz MEPs in Debrecen. Tell me with an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I need to start with an honest confession. I admit, for a very long time, I've seen the practice of the market being understood by the pro-government representatives that I'm going in and buying 2 or 3 kilos of potatoes, but I realized that the market is much more than that, the market in Debrecen. The market is nothing more than a social, sociological barometer. There, one can perfectly assess the relationship of a given community to domestic politics and politicians. [[21.20]] It hasn't been any different in the last few days. And I must confess to you one more time: suddenly I became the devil's attorney. What I noticed was that I was the one who defended the Fidesz pro-government MPs in Debrecen. As soon as I entered the market, a small company welcomed me and asked what the three Fidesz MEPs were doing in Parliament. Of course, I started saying that it wasn't good to dig in someone else's pockets, but I was immediately corrected for not wanting to do this, and pretty much everyone knows how much they're taking home. That's not what they're interested in, it's what they're doing to Debrecen, the community of Debrecen. And I told you that it was up to government representatives to lobby for 200,000 debrecens, to knock on the ministries, to go out to the city and to the people of the city, to do things that only pro-government representatives can do. That it's good that they're there to embrace the community's affairs. But people in the market have said that they have never seen a proposal like this from Lajos Kósa and his associates. They say that they have not actually seen these people in Parliament. They did not see a speech or a budget proposal for Debrecen from their own mouth. Interestingly, they knew what these people were doing, because they threw up on me that Lajos Kósa lobbied here in Parliament for his buddy brewery and submitted a bill, but they said, for example, that the concentration of dust in the city of Debrecen did not get any smaller. Or they also knew that he had planted his direct colleagues in the project company of the MotoGP site of Hajdúnánás, but they didn't think it made Debrecen's roads any less messy. Or, for example, they also knew that he had submitted a bill, more in the case of pensioners' cooperatives, in a case where otherwise Lajos Kósa's lawyer was most likely looking for you. But people in the market claimed that this made the same dreary, fifties environment in Debrecen's social homes welcome the people who went mad in solitude. And actually, I didn't know what to say. They couldn't be protected. And then they threw it at me that these three people have just started campaigning, even though it's still just the opposition pre-election. And they didn't understand why Lajos Kósa and the two other Fidesz congressmen had to grab a petz and paint a bench in the parks, why they had to grab paint rollers and mash kindergartens, because that wouldn't be their job. Why are you doing this? And these people said it wasn't enough, because that's not why they were sent to Parliament, because they were elected. Rather, they sent the Kósa Lajos to this House to articulate, convey the cries and cries of our city's 200 thousand inhabitants, that our roads are bad, that there is high concentration of particulate matter, and that is true not only in winter in the heating season, but unfortunately also in summer babies drown in the amount of dust circulating in the streets of Debrecen. How the Great Forest is destroyed, the city's lungs and ornaments. That the panel program has been shut down for years. The only way to get to the residential parking lot is by a tank, there's so much potholes. That we have to reorganize Debrecen's traffic, because I'm ashamed of the world Debrecen is among the first in terms of the number of hours spent in traffic jams. That the drinking water network is outdated, and there's no money, let alone to renovate it, but slowly to maintain the resulting errors. And it could be classified by sunrise. But they told me that they were throwing my eye on the market that these people voted in favour of taking away the 750 million-dollar parking revenues, the billion-dollar loss of business taxes, the horriable solidarity contribution, and a lot of stupid investment that would cost the city to run. And, Honourable House, I stood there alone as an opposition representative, and I wondered what these three people were really doing in Parliament. Because they don't represent the interests of Debrecen, that's for sure. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-06-07-274	Thank you. Mr László Hajdu, from DK, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech: the first waste supplier in Central and Eastern Europe was handed over to Rákospalota 40 years ago. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-07-275	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honourable House! 45 years ago, in 1976, in a contemporary press, it appeared that an incinerator was being built in Rákospalota. I have Rákospalota in my constituency, so it's 40 and 45 years of recall. It's 45 years of decision-making, and it's been 40 years since this piece was built. It's a power plant. It is a power plant in which the municipal waste generated in the various districts of Budapest is transported and recycled here. Electricity and steam have been produced in this work for 40 years. So this was a real recycling, and Hungary was also at the forefront of this KGST at the time. In the KGST countries, the first such power plant was built, which worked with municipal waste fuel. Sadly, it was not followed by another one in Hungary, and it is the only one that is burning today. What makes me bring this here is, in part, an environmental issue, and an example of how it could be recycled this way, and, on the other hand, the 40 years that created jobs in Rákospalota. Of course, it was a problem, because the transport route of the different districts is somehow taking place on the streets of the district, and since about 450 thousand cubic meters of municipal waste is coming here to burn this, there is a significant increase in traffic. I would like to mention the burner as an example because it was renovated during a left-wing government. By 2002, technology became obsolete, and this technology needs to be regularly renewed, and since international standards always grow and impose higher requirements, in 2002 the Balliberal Government started planning it, and in 2005 a modern, completely new power plant was delivered, equipped with a flue gas cleaner. Basically, the size of this object has doubled. The renovation cost 20 billion forints at the time, and today it works with computer-controlled technology, a technology that can be monitored by the authority every minute of 24 hours, so you cannot tamper with the technology and can change the technology automatically depending on the composition of communal waste. The second lesson from this is that at the time of the budget discussion on air pollution, we were discussing where there is a chapter in the budget that deals with the fact that the Hungarian budget will try to make some investments in the matter of air pollution in 2022. Well, we didn't find him together with the Secretary of State, but he claims he's somewhere on one of the thousands of pages of the budget. However, it is possible and necessary to know that due to air pollution, Hungary is about the third to the last of the 27 countries of the European Union in terms of pollution and mortality. The lesson is, then, that we should take seriously what happens to waste that we say is a circular economy. What does the circular economy mean? Is the circular economy Paks II, or are there other recycling and energy-generating options? This is where 13,000 apartments are generated every day, and 45,000 homes are supplied with electricity. So recycling has been operating in Rákospalota for 40 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[21.30]]
u2021-06-07-276	Thank you. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, spoke on the agenda, entitled "The Day after Teacher's Day." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-07-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the day after Teacher's Day, we have to regret that the budget planned for next year does not hold much good for the Hungarian educator society. Although the letter has arrived from Viktor Orbán, who is living on wages and salaries, the usual misrepresentation, let us say that it is a very inexpensive letter to teachers, where the Prime Minister told us how hard the domestic teachers and teachers are doing, but there is no news of real financial and moral appreciation. I think I may have more experience with what it means to live on wages and salaries, because until 2014, I myself taught at a vocational school in the countryside, so I may dare to allow myself the luxury of opposition to bring the voice of the teachers, their complaints, what they would like me to do on such a occasion. Let's see what it was for, what there is money for in Hungary and what it is not! There is no money for a significant teacher's wage increase, but there was money, say, HUF 4 billion 208 million to pay for Gyula Balásy, the one who pushed the government propaganda into the nose and mouth. There was money to give 18 billion forints to the nation, let's say for its piggy bank, so that it could renovate its 14 hotel chain in the middle of the epidemic while releasing half of its employees. There was and there is money for the renovation of the headquarters of the National Bank of Hungary worth more than 50 billion, there will be money for the World Hunting Exhibition, and then we only talked about the change, because there are bigger items than the University of China's 500 billion or the Budapest-Belgrád railway is also a thousand billion-dollar project of Chinese credit and never-refundable. So, there was money for these, but there was no money, and there hasn't been any money for decades, because we have to admit, it's a 75-year-old debt, so there's no money to appreciate the domestic educator society. The question must be asked whether you believe on the pro-government side, let us say, in the truth of the Széchenyi quote that the power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of people, and that if you believe, you will accept that there is a key element in this. Well, if you believe, why don't you do something to improve the situation of those working in this very important area of national strategy? The thing is that they need freedom from teachers, not that they need to be servants of the Klebelsberg Center, or that they are the day laborers of NER. They want to be the nation's lanterns, but this would require freedom from the leaders of the education policy at all times, as well as the moral and material prestige; what the Klebelsberg Kuno, who is so fond of being referred to in the pro-government benches, could indeed create, and could make the cult wallet the new defence wallet in Hungary between the two world wars, when this country was torn apart after the First World War defeat, when even a reparation was attached to him, when the Romanian troops took everything that they could, could make it a truly strategic sector for education in Hungary. This is what Hungarian teachers and teachers want from the current government, but we do not see the news of this. The reality is that they are fleeing the field, there is a huge dropout, which is why 50 percent of them now make up the career, who are slowly reaching the retirement age, because the teacher's choir has become fatally old for no reason, since this tremendously beautiful profession is not attractive. Therefore, Hungarian teachers also ask the current government to take action on this matter. We see that this request has been passed over by their ears for years now, and the resolution of this issue will certainly be waiting for the government to replace the orange company in 2022. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-07-278	Thank you. Congresswoman Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, the voice of the countryside! He wishes to address his speech with a title 14. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-07-279	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, an era ends: a hotel that has lived more beautiful days down in Siófok, on the Golden Beach, goes into private hands. The Hotel Aranypart, which is owned by the Hungarian State, is a nine-storey, 160-bedroom hotel owned by 100%, and the property has been operating as a hotel in Erzsébet in recent years by Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. With today's closing bid, you're most likely to sell it. They've got this, they're gonna close the gate, and they're gonna enrich the oligarchs. This is what we've been talking about for months now in the walls of this House, because this little ball, it just doesn't want to be fed. A few months passed, and we saw that Balatoni Shipping Ltd., out of Bahart's property, the Siófok pier, which is at the sailing port, was eaten, and now the Hotel Gold Coast is here. Hundreds of children and families in need could spend the few days there at Lake Balaton in the huge property that also works as a hotel, and yet it was an opportunity for them. Yet, he closes his gate, and the pockets of those privileged will be enriched by the income that comes from there. This was one of the wealth elements of a portfolio of nearly HUF 15 billion, its value is estimated at HUF 2 billion, directly on the shore of Lake Balaton, with a direct maturity to the Hungarian sea. We opposition representatives have one important thing: the protection of national wealth, the act and the revelation that we live up to the future by destroying national wealth. Now it was nothing but a waste of national wealth, because the Balaton is everyone's, even if you forget that many times, and you cannot have the privileged on your own, we cannot allow those generations to point back to us in decades' time, why we didn't do everything we could to protect the Balaton. We're preparing for a change of government, and we're on the right track, because you're obviously afraid, and even in the moments after the last, all the properties that are available on the shore of Lake Balaton are being acquired. They want to play it to the oligarchs, to the stooges, and then to put a fence on the shore of Lake Balaton. You say this is not the case, but we see where these roads lead. They lead you to want to close the Hungarian sea from the Hungarian families, even though Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. That is why we need to act, and after 22 we will review all contracts that have closed the coasts with long-term operating and rental contracts, and, of course, we will also review the coastal investments and constructions that could cause irreversible ecological damage to Lake Balaton. It is our responsibility, our responsibility, to take care of Lake Balaton, our common national treasure. That is what you should do, and not how you can get rich from this common national treasure. That's what we should be paying more attention to. That's why I started an initiative together with the title Balatonért, because I believe that we can only do it together for Balaton, and I am glad that civil society organisations have joined, mayors have joined, and I trust that many Hungarian people will say that yes, together for Lake Balaton. This initiative is available at www.egyuttabalatonert.hu I ask all Hungarians who feel the need to do this for the protection of Lake Balaton, sign this initiative and rub it in to Viktor Orbán and his gang, the oligarchs, the strómans, that yes, the Balaton is everyone's! Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-280	Thank you. Mr János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, spoke after the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor. [[21.40]]
u2021-06-07-281	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, We in Békés County consider the parliamentary victory of 2022 not as a goal, but as an instrument and opportunity. We see this victory as a means to finally create a more lovable and lovable home from the county of Peace after 30 years than it has become in the last three decades; it is a tool to finally remove those people, those corrupt politicians, those untalented and incompetent politicians, from the heads of public offices who have caused this county to die in the last three decades. But this election victory is also an opportunity for us to open the way for a new political generation and create opportunities in the coming years and decades, which, after three decades of vulnerability, hopelessness, forgetfulness and vegetation, can open a new era of development and order here in Békés county. In my next speech, I would like to talk about this new political generation, this new political culture that we represent, within the walls of this House. I can give a sample or a sample to this new political generation, but the joint work that we do together will be carried out in the interests of our county, our homeland and our country every day, far beyond my person, goes far beyond the legislative elections in 2022, goes far beyond the political deals that are needed to move the currently regent pro-government majority out of state power, goes far beyond Viktor Orbán and goes far beyond the system of national cooperation. It's a lot more than that. It is about who, in the coming years and decades, will be the elected leaders of the Peaceful County, more than 300,000 people, who feel the fundamentals of the policy of order and development, and in the practice of everyday life they do so and serve their communities accordingly. Because these people will serve their communities and not rule them, just like the people who have put this county where it has been for the last three decades. The representatives of this new policy will lead with humble work, be available to voters, carry out attentive public service, take the principle of zero corruption, and live a respectable private life that their local communities will be able to look up to them bravely and proudly. Those who will be the embodiment of this new political culture in the coming years and decades will not use the buildings of the mayor's offices for lurking and boasting, but when they go into their workplaces every single day, they will enter there with the spirit of giving themselves the best performance on that day for their own local communities. These people, the representatives of this new political culture, will not turn their heads away from their troubled countrymen when they face them on the street and ask for their help, but will ask them what it is they can do to help them, and will do everything in their power to solve the problems of their citizens. Not only will they turn up once every four years in the elections, begging for the votes, but they will be available and expected in all circumstances and at all times. These people will not be goods, they will not be bought, and they will reject all forms of corruption. And when it comes to being above themselves, but in the interests of their own communities, compromises will be reached. Or if there is a conflict with a higher office, they will take on this conflict. We have recognised the historical responsibility that only with this new spirit, this new attitude, can put an end to this 30-year period. We have recognised the historical responsibility that only with this political and human quality can we finally build a more lovable and happy Peaceful County. We have recognised our responsibility that if we want to achieve our goals, we do have to say good-bye to the people of the past party secretary and president. We want to build a more lovable and happy county. We're on this road, we're gonna go through it. We'll go through it even if some people don't like it and others don't care. We're gonna go through this because we're gonna go to Peaceful County first. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-07-282	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good rest.
