u2021-04-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, Fellow Members! The 13th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be winner Vinnai and notary László Varga for my help. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start with pre-meeting speeches. I'll wait for Congressman Sándor Burány to put his microphone on. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would like an answer to a question, namely, why you are vaccinated against music. Did you miss the vaccine in the rennet? [[Moore in the pro-government benches. István Szilárd Németh: What does he say?]] Now, for the next few minutes, let us suspend the debate between us about the level of vaccination that can be allowed to relax in the country. Let's assume for a few minutes, and you're right to say, in the case of four million vaccinees, additional relaxations can be allowed and expected, such as the opening of cinemas, such as theatres. I do not understand why concert halls cannot open, what is the special reason why you are so angry with music, music culture, musicians and everyone who in some way lives on music, and why you deprive the audience of the experience of listening to music. Secretary Judit Varga, didn't you say in your website that Bach's party wasn't dangerous to health? Or when Majka visited Péter Szijjártó, did she not tell you that the concert was less dangerous than beer on terraces? Let's assume... because you forbid it in the government decree, I'm just saying, I can see you're listening in awe. So you didn't read the decision that you made. Let's assume that in the Great Hall of the Academy of Music, Kristóf Baráti is standing with a string of Stradivari violin in his hand. Why would this pose a greater threat than Viktor Orbán on any terrace with a beer in his hand? Why? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Closed Square!]] Or, of course, on your website, on the government's website, a number of lies, but you may not even claim that the Goldberg variations combined with some kind of underlying disease would be a deadly combination for the student. If football players are not dangerous to the audience, why are they dangerous to the audience, say, the Budapest Festival Orchestra or the MÁV Symphony Orchestra? Why don't you explain it to me? We can go to the theater, okay? But why can't we go to a concert hall? Why is it, say, "The Three Sisters," but not a musical? How much more dangerous are Cats than the Three Sisters? Or why is it that we can, say, watch the play of "The Banish" hurts, but we can't listen to it as an opera performance? Are you afraid that the title character will come out and sing my country's aria from the beginning of my country? Okay, all right, it gives us goose bumps, but gooseskin in this case is not a side effect of a disease, Your Honours Secretary of State. What makes it not dangerous, let's say, a full married soccer game at the Puskás Stadium with 67,000 viewers, but hearing Majka in Budapest Park with about 10,000 viewers is dangerous? I doubt Majka would have told me why she couldn't. And I could tell you the musicians. We can sit on the terrace of a jazz café for a beer, but why not sing, say, Urbán Orsi? That's forbidden. How much more dangerous can you tell me? ! And while you're at it, my country and my goosebumps are really not a symptom of the coronal virus, believe me. Gooseskin is a symptom of catharsis. And that's not a disease. Don't deprive us of it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-27-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We are in the final line in the fight against the corona virus, the number of vaccinees exceeded 3 million 600,000, of which over 1 million 665 thousand others received the second vaccine. In the first half of April, Hungary had the fastest vaccination rate in the world, and vaccination is twice the EU average. The head of the World Health Organization has also acknowledged this as the success of the Hungarian vaccination programme. At the moment, 37 percent of the Hungarian population have already been vaccinated; the EU average is 21 percent. Over 90 percent and more than 70 percent of all registered patients over 65 years of age have been vaccinated. Teachers were also vaccinated on an emergency basis. The rate of relapse of single-inoculation subjects is only 1 percent. So all vaccines in circulation are effective and safe in Hungary. I thought it was important to say this because we believe that vaccination is the central element in the fight against the epidemic, so we can fight the epidemic with vaccination, and that vaccination is also a condition for restarting Hungary. We consider rebooting not as a mechanical step, but as a complex program in which we think that we politicians, not us, have a crucial role, but the epidemiological experts and the operational tribe. Thus, the method, process and method of rebooting is always carried out on the basis of a proposal from the epidemiological experts and the operational tribe. If you have criticism in this regard, you are not arguing with us, you are arguing with health professionals. I don't advise you to do that. [[9.10]] I do not advise you because there was a time when the left thought that it was worth arguing with the epidemiological experts, this was their anti-vaccination campaign, when, despite the fact that all virological experts, all epidemiological experts in Hungary, said that vaccinations placed on the market were all safe and that any vaccination was better than catching the disease, you campaigned on the left against the Eastern vaccines in intent units and in identity, talked hundreds of thousands of people off vaccinations, who later and even now obviously have to deal with more serious diseases than those who vaccinated themselves. I think this is a serious problem, I think it is a serious problem, and I am very pleased that today, on Tuesday morning, in the Dialogue, they woke up just to support the reboot, and yesterday they went to bed without supporting the reboot. [[Tamás János Schanda: That's right!]] I must admit, I didn't follow their communication activities on Sunday, based on previous experiences, they were thinking exactly the other way around at the time, so they might have said the same thing on Sunday as they did on Tuesday, and the opposite thing they're going to say on Monday. I am pleased that I am meeting this morning with the opinion of the Dialogue and the Left that rebooting is important, in which case I would like to ask you to complete the anti-vaccination campaign, and then the rebooting of Hungary can proceed at the right pace. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-27-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It has been mentioned here that it is possible to restart the country as soon as possible, so that people are as safe as possible, of course, but we do not see what they are doing to this end. For the time being, instead of dealing effectively with the epidemic, a dozen laws have been submitted to Parliament, which have nothing to do with this, from agricultural to nuclear energy to archives, through transport to all but mostly the outsourcing of public property to fidesz private foundations. Well, is that really the most important thing in the middle of an epidemic? At a time when many people are suffering from the impact of the crisis, a lot of businesses have been destroyed, it was possible to experience this on the weekend about the opening, the shortage of workers, the suffering of businesses. A lot of people were forced to stay at home or lose their jobs, have no proper wages, have their families in trouble, and then the most important thing is to spend hundreds of billions on fidesz private foundations, mostly preparing to lose elections in 2022, and I think they'd run their organization. However, this should not be done from the public wealth of the Hungarian people, which, by the way, is intended for a completely different purpose; these are intended for public tasks; these foundations will obviously not perform these tasks. So it's all about saving power and wealth. In fact, today, Parliament will vote on the outsourcing of 11 universities to Fidesz foundations, and these Boards, these Foundation Boards, are full of members of the government, several ministers, several state ministers, such as Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, is one of them, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the MCC, and will obviously disposal over nearly 500 billion forints, which again will not be spent on crisis management, and these assets, these properties can be further sold later. So that's what Parliament is voting on today. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Not about this!]] from these 11 universities, the outsourcing of this property [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] and a number of other trust funds and actions. Obviously, those who vote in favour of this proposal are you, because the opposition will not give its vote on this, you will share the responsibility of the decision, and you will not be able to avoid being held accountable. It is quite clear that next year Hungarian people should be given an account of their actions. And it seems that your appetite is insufferable, because they started to test the model by restructuring Corvinus University, then they organized university properties into 13 Fidesz foundations, and other assets, including sailing ports, and the shares of public companies, and 16 private foundations again receive state assets. A total of 1750 public assets, which are the property of Hungarian people, will be given free of charge to these private foundations. And all this money was not spent to reduce the impact of the crisis on Hungarian people as much as possible, to help people in distress to keep the 5,500 doctors who left practice, perhaps not to increase the efficiency of healing those suffering from the coronal virus or other diseases, I think that at that time fewer people could mourn their relatives, but simply turn people's pockets out without blinking. And they've submitted more billings. What are these? I'd like to give you a few examples of this. For example, in the future, it is good to know that the primary task of the Hungarian State will not be to increase and operate the public assets effectively, but to achieve the outsourcing of state assets intended for discharge as soon as possible. So basically, the more money, the more real estate you have to carry out out of the pockets of the Hungarian people, this will be the primary task. In addition, companies to be outsourced from public property, so that no one can see into these machinations, no rules on conflicts of interest, on other control or on the publicity of operations will now have to be applied. In addition, there is an amendment to the Act on the operation of Eximbank, so that NER companies operating abroad can be given more money from the Hungarian people's common assets. Furthermore, the task of creating homes itself is being outsourced, and I do not know if we are talking about filling Rogán's home-building communities with real estate or what else is going on here. So, honourable Members, honourable members of the government, undersecretaries of state, even though they are fakenewing and screaming in vain, they are simply so afraid of losing power that they will not deal with anything other than the outsourcing of people's wealth. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] However, we will definitely take back this wealth for the people, and we will have everyone involved in the outsourcing of public funds accounted for. Thank you.
u2021-04-27-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It always gives us a special charm when we argue here in Parliament, that if there is particularly a Member speaking about the left who previously played a decisive role in the Socialist Party, and now, if I see it, after such a long turn, he will come back to exactly where he started and sing again from the score of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Madam Member, because that's exactly what you're doing. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] You do exactly what your old-new boss expects you to do: threaten to be held accountable, threaten people in Hungary at the same time. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] We have seen the end of this, and we have seen what the left is doing when he threatens to do it, and it is the end of an eye, Madam honourable Member, that is the end of beating people on the streets, that is the end, honourable Member. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] And sad is sad! That you want to meet your boss again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is also deeply sad that you are trying to teach us about crisis management, you are! who, when they had the opportunity to deal with a crisis, did nothing but raise new taxes, take on new loans and add more and more burdens to businesses [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] And the necks of families. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In addition, it is clear that what you have put forward in your speech before the agenda is in line with the usual false news factory on the left, which is where these sentences come from. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] That's where these sentences come from, honourable Member. If you wanted to argue, if you wanted to debate the establishment of public foundations, if you wanted to debate the future of Hungarian higher education, if you were interested not in political purpharl, but in how we could improve Hungarian higher education institutions, you would have participated in the plenary debate, then you would have been here last night [[Márta Demeter: I was here!]] and we could have argued on this issue for many hours. I was here, and by the way, your faction leader was here, and we argued about these issues for six hours, even last night. [[Márta Demeter and Dr. Lajos Oláh intervene.]] We have had professional debates, and over and over again I have tried to explain to your group leader that you completely misunderstand the law, not that you misunderstand it because it would be a kind assumption, but that you are deliberately trying to misinterpret and deceive the Hungarian people. [[9.20]] 'Cause what are we talking about here? It is about the transfer of public-service assets to public-interest trust foundations, a property that cannot be used for anything, cannot be used for what it wants. It can be used for... [[Márta Demeter: It's in the law!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It can be used to whatever you are shouting now, if you look at the draft legislation, if you look at what is in the legislation, and understand what is there, and I assume you can understand it, so if you understand what is in it, you can see that this wealth can be used to achieve the goals of the public. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are interested in that, even if you are not willing to take one step to make Hungarian higher education more competitive, Hungarian higher education should be better so that Hungarian young people can participate in better and more valuable training and will be the winners of the future. On the other hand, what do you want? You team up with those who have introduced tuition fees in Hungarian higher education. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] They join forces and want to bring them back, who are indebted to the institutions through PPP schemes. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] They join forces with those who owe the institutions PPP schemes (Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!) And they join forces with those who took a month's wages from the instructors. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That's the kind of higher education you want! We want something else. We want higher education where we give wealth to the institutions, we want higher education where there is not debt, but own property, where wages rise, where the wages of teachers increase, the wages of researchers, and where there is no tuition fee, but free higher education is available to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let's face it, it's the right policy. Let them admit that such higher education is needed in Hungary, because we can only be a successful country if our universities are successful and our young people are successful. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The future of higher education is the future of the country, so I ask with great respect that you reconsider and support the legislative proposals that have been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-27-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Oláh has applied for a speech from the DK Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. You spoke yesterday or boasted about how much you talk to people and make your decisions by listening to their opinions. But the only people who don't understand it, and the people of Elizabeth and Teresa City don't understand it, they see that you make these decisions in smoky rooms. As an individual elected representative of Elizabeth and Terézváros, I have already addressed you in a number of official letters and comments on two issues. One of them is the so-called rust area next to the Western Railway Station, where you are planning a circus center and an art school. I also understand the motivation: they want to compensate Secretary of State Péter Fekete for taking the circus away from him in the Liget, eliminating it, and thinking that it will solve his problem. Once again, the Orbán government wants to decide without the Budapest district authorities and the district citizens. You see the citizens who live there as enemies, because if they didn't, you would dare consult them and ask them: Dear District Citizens! Do you want a new stone building or do you want a park where you can relax, you want a green area? Next to the West, the residents of Terézváros want rest places, trees, groves, and flowers. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Government District!]] This is also shown by the research done by the district DK in Teresa City, but this is also shown by the residential letters we receive. If they keep calling their fake questions national consultations, this would be the time for a real consultation of the VI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. in the district. We don't need the circus, we need the green spaces, Fidesz. Another controversial story is the integration of City Park. I asked a number of questions about this too, but you want to fully integrate one of Budapest's lungs. The area is important, but the VI didn't ask here either. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The inhabitants of the district. Many people are looking to stop me on the street, too, why we citizens of Elizabeth and Teresa do not have a say in what the government is creating here, how it is transforming our environment. Only a joint decision can be made, that is the request of the people of Budapest. Stop preparing for further installation! ask the inhabitants of Elizabeth and Teresa. They are now finally trying to process the fact that Budapest, the VI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The district has a Democratic majority! [[Dr. Pál Völner: Always has been!]] Don't look at these municipalities as enemies, these residents, but try to cooperate, and that would be better for everyone. You've been at war with the local authorities throughout the plague. Unlike many European countries that have provided extra resources to the municipalities, you have withdrawn funds rather than giving them to the municipalities, because they know more about what the residents need than you, who are sitting in their offices, not talking to the residents. You regularly turned to the transfer of tax on local governments, making free parking impossible for the residents of the district. [[Tamás Vargha: Disaster! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But really, Secretary of State, if the terrace is already working, how long will free parking stay? Why didn't they at the same time cancel the free parking to make people's lives miserable? When will they return the abstract resources to the municipalities? The local government's money is spent on hunting exhibitions, MotoGPs and grass sunbathings, Fidesz! [[Dr. László Kács: True!]] They're spending hundreds of millions of forints on grass sunbathing! Are you guys crazy? They take it away from the municipalities and sunbathe the grass with this money? This is unacceptable! In addition, you are constantly keeping secrets from the local authorities. Even though we asked how many people were vaccinated, how many people died, how many people got the disease, how many people were quarantined, how many people lost their jobs, you didn't answer once! During an epidemic, you refused to provide this information! [[Robert Szigó: You're talking nonsense!]] It's a crime, it's a misdemeanor! I'm not talking nonsense. Read the questions. You don't even know what you're talking about, Mr. Secretary. You denied this information during an epidemic! Dear Government, Here are my questions. Why don't you coordinate with the municipality of Terézváros and its inhabitants on the use of the area behind the West? In the meantime, stop all preparations while this negotiation is under way. The municipality of Terézváros shall initiate the withdrawal of the decision of the Government in relation to the centre of circus. It's a municipal decision. Please take this decision and keep it. In addition, state that there are no secret preparatory work on the further installation of the Liget, no further construction! [[Dr. Pál Völner: Don't make a fuss.]] And two bonus questions: when will free parking be stopped? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] When will they return the money they took to the municipalities? Thank you very much, and I'm sorry, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-27-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I was young, but I still remember that there was a time when you were responsible for government positions. We may hear nice words from you today, but that's not how they did it. I'm sorry about before 2010, honourable Member. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: There was no sunbathing!]] that was before 2010 [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] that, out of 8000 public tasks, 3,500 state tasks were transferred to municipalities and the funds associated with them were taken away, over a thousand billion? How was that then? Then how did the municipalities matter? After 2010, this government, the civil government, had to restore the economic and other political capacity of the municipalities, regardless of party standing. How can anyone who swims in debt deal with the people of the district and the people of the settlement? That is why we have started debt consolidation, and therefore have rationalised the distribution between public and municipal tasks, and that is why we have launched an economic policy that has led to double the local government's own revenues without tax increases. This is the case for Budapest, as is the case for the districts of Budapest, and also for the settlements outside Budapest. It's true that we think... we think two things. On the one hand, in the event of a pandemic, everyone has to take their part in the defence: just as public authorities do, so also local government bodies have to do their part. [[9.30]] The other is that during a pandemic, human health is the most important. So when you have to consider whether parking income, so you have to take what you're taking away from people, come into the municipalities, or rather, instead of free parking, you can use the car as many as possible, and therefore reduce the risk of passing the infection, then, forgive me. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I think human life is more important. And when it comes to dealing with the economic impact of a pandemic, and what we see in the municipalities that you run is that you are trying to raise taxes, how is that, Congressman? Raise taxes in crisis? Pre-2010 recipe, the same thing was done in 2008-2009, the whole country went up against the wall. You think that people need to be scratched in crisis because obviously in those institutions they can play out more advisory money for their own friends, through contractual cooperation, different money. How does it work if it's already VI, VII? Did you mention that every week we hear from Congressman Mayors that there is not enough money in the municipalities, but Csaba Czeglédy's legal contract, is there money for that? How's that? [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Before that, five times that was in Fidesz lawyers, ask him. The president's ringing the bell.]] How's that? So, fortunately... I think we should agree on that. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Let's make a deal.]] that local government funding is stable, 17 percent more funding in next year's budget [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: To the Fidesz.]] , more specifically for this year...
u2021-04-27-12	Congressman Lajos Oláh!
u2021-04-27-13	...the budget is 17 percent higher despite the epidemic than it was a year ago. And in the case of Budapest. I'm sorry, Congressman. You haven't been involved in the debates over the last few years. There was an agreement between the government and Budapest's management to develop Budapest together. We have also created an institutional structure for this, the Council of Public Developments, and only the improvements that the Council of Public Development approves. The government side, the municipal side, must therefore agree on this. It is true that we have a problem with the fact that, unfortunately, when you have been given political authority to run the city, you are struggling with skills problems. So the investments you're responsible for are interestingly expensive, interestingly slipping away. Chain Bridge, in previous cycles, the case of Metro Three's investment. So we think that Budapesters have the right to live in a cleaner, greener and more modern city, and the necessary improvements have to be made. We strive for cooperation, this has always been achieved, and Budapest will also receive more development resources, such as 3000 billion of EU funds instead of 80 billion, but we do not think that this political hysteria is necessary. Instead, they're in them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in settlements and settlements where you bear responsibility, political responsibility, you should work there. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-04-27-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member László Szakács of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Looks like the government's looking for new ways. Of course, I won't stop talking about foundations, I'd rather just react to what I've heard. Regarding the outsourced foundations, Secretary of State Schanda said that they want new and rich higher education. Well, Secretary of State, you're right, after all, the University of Szeged would be much less if it didn't have Balatonboglár and Fonyód vacationers. I'm sure you need it very much. [[Tamás János Schanda: That's right!]] He needs it at least as much as the Mathias Corvinus Foundation will need the Port of Révfülöp and the Officer's Casino of Pécs. Well, they're also public property, so you'll come here to keep these things going and ask for money. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Stealing!]] And in the same way, you'll lose your public wealth. They've done this experiment before, and they're learning from Matolcsy: he started it small, and now you're doing it big. And speaking of Matolcsy, because I brought it up, that's why we read from him. What's the next plan? We'll see what the next plan is. Here we are in the land of the soroslanes, for we see where he puts his eyes, and he says that we should do the same, and we must turn to the east to be properly baptized from the experience that they have in order to outrun the West. I'll tell you what, he thinks I'm gonna say good morning. economic development must have a worldview, must have a tradition, must have a strategy of culture, and bring this to him from the East. It sets examples of exemplary democracies such as Singapore, the United Arab Emirates and China. These are the examples to be followed for you, just so you know, if you accidentally don't read the paper. We can see how they're doing this way. These are three examples of democracy: in Singapore there is a so-called, we used to say that controlled democracy, I think there are about eight opposition places, they sometimes fill four of them; the Emirates are only one kingdom; in China there is the Communist Party, but those are good Communists, because you are always doing business with them. That's what you're going to do now. [[Lárinc Nacsa and Dr. Bence Rétvári intervene.]] And they're saying that there's gonna be a tradition and a culture and a strategy. But at least you should realize that if this Matolcsy doesn't do it: there are completely different traditions, there is a completely different culture, no, especially political culture. And what I see is that with all your efforts, you are also trying to submit to this political culture, because we have also heard from Secretary Schanda that we are the ones who have sold this country, so we have not taken 1200 billion forints from the Chinese Communist Party so far! And where else is it? This is the price of the Budapest-Belgrade Chinese program, the railway line, and now even the Fudan University, because it became the standard. Well, why not the European universities, why not the Sorbonne, why not the Heidelberg, why not Oxford, why not Cambridge? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Fudan beats Sorbonne!]] Because those who finance Hungary, Putin's Russia and China, the Chinese Communist Party, are, please, this is how they work, that first they give the money, they don't come with tanks, they come with rubles and yuan, and then they bring in the ideology that you take over. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Better than a tank.]] Bring the political culture you take over, that's what you do. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Do you really believe what you're saying, by the way?]] And after that, you won't be able to get out of this. We therefore recommend that you continue to maintain that federal system and turn around in the economic field, do not listen to Matolcsy; what is in Hungary's interest is a transatlantic cooperation and the European Union. We do not need to learn economic operations from the autocratic systems in East Asia, nor do we need to bring that political culture here. Believe me, you're going to have a very difficult time dancing out of this, because what you've done has owed this country to China and Russia that it's a matter of sovereignty. This government is no longer its own master, and in Beijing they will decide what university will be in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you really serious about this?]] In Russia, they will decide what infrastructure investments will be. Thank you for your attention. [[István Szilárd Németh: It is for the Kádár-plants. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-04-27-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás State Secretary responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is not unusual for the left and it is not unusual for the Socialist Party to speak against Hungarian youth. When they were on the wheel, they were also politicalized against them and governed against them. You are against young Hungarians. You stand up here in Parliament as a young Member, stand up in the Parliament, and say that otherwise there is no need to renovate the camps in Balaton, where young people can vacation and learn. This is what the MCC's investment is about, Mr honourable Member, that children who are not necessarily able to get to Lake Balaton and are not necessarily allowed to participate in a quality programme, not like you at the Young Left. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: The Luschlagos, huh?]] But in some quality program, they can't do that. That's what you're talking about. He stands up in the Parliament and says that Hungarian young people should not get to Lake Balaton. [[9.40]] And he's talking about taking this away from universities, who already had locations in Balaton, where they could also hold summer universities, summer programs, and not giving it to them. Well, honourable Member, this is a whole new kind of policy. I understand that you have to speak against the young, but at least you would have entrusted this to one of your fellow factions. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that this is, among other things, the transfer of wealth to trust foundations with a public mission, that these foundations will solve real social tasks, and that, in order to solve their real social goals and tasks, they will receive the necessary wealth, honourable Member. That is why we capitalise universities and therefore strengthen their position so that they have the best opportunity to perform their own tasks; they have at the same time the wealth that helps education, the wealth that helps research, which helps channel research results to the economy, and also the wealth that makes it possible to help young people develop with camps in Lake Balaton. Don't oppose this, Congressman. It's a bad policy. Don't object to that. Don't speak against the young Hungarians! Honourable Congressman, His second comment, which also means the politics against the left and your personal university, which he expressed here as a criticism of the University of Fudan. Of course, this has not always been the case, we discussed it here in Parliament yesterday, as your old-new boss Ferenc Gyurcsány also talked about the need to strengthen the educational cooperation between Hungary and China. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Honourable Member, for political reasons only, it is better to hear anti-University speeches here in Parliament. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, After all, if we want to make Hungary a winner of the future, we need good higher education, we need good institutions, and we are interested in the fact that if the best universities in the world want to open campus in Hungary, they want to start training in Hungary, they can do so, honourable Member. [[Dr. László Kács: Why don't you...]] Then you can do this. We agree with everyone, we negotiate with everyone who wishes to open campus in Hungary from among the world's leading universities [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Go!]] It's a pleasure to see you, by the way. Congressman! You can yell in here, here in Jobbik's benches they're talking about CEU, it's a surprising turn of events. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is a surprising turn of events that Jobbik is already fighting for the Soros University, but this is exactly what shows your two-facedness, honourable Jobbik Members and Honourable Left, because you are not interested in the emergence of good higher education institutions in Hungary, as in Fudan, but in the fact that you, honourable Member, are responding to George Soros; this is proven by every single one of your contributions. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman and Zoltán Balczó applaud. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's how it's done. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Stop fooling around, my dear right-handers! James Peter intervenes.]]
u2021-04-27-18	Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: You were taught by Soros, you are his disciples!]]
u2021-04-27-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your confirmation from the left. What I would like to say to you, honourable Member, in reply once again, is that you do not want to continue anti-Universal politics here in Parliament. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Support the development of Hungarian higher education! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-20	Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Gergely Kálló has applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-21	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. Before I start, let me just say that my story will be about the livelihood of ten thousand families. Forget Soros. Let's always forget to scold the opposition. Now I'm going to talk about the fate of ten thousand families. I often start my speeches by making an introduction and inviting you on a historic journey to Dunaújváros. On May 2nd, 1950, the first hoof cut takes place, and they start building Dunaújváros and the Ironworks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Stalin City! The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, for the sake of historical loyalty. The factory has been building since the 1950s, and it has survived the change of system. In 1993, Dunaferr became the gold-grade supporter of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, thanks to these generous sports grants, Dunaújváros was the national sports capital, and we held several championships at the same time. That's when the mistakes were made. Now let's jump to 2001, because you say very often who privatized the Ironworks. Who privatized him? I take in my hand a letter written by Dr. István Stumpf to András Kálmán and László Keller in 2001; András Kálmán was then the mayor of Dunaújváros. I quote from the letter: "The ÁPV Rt. the laws governing the government's programme and the sectors of the national economy, as well as the government's economic development strategy, the Dunaferr Rt. prepares its privatisation concept. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[A statement from Jobbik's ranks: There you go.]] So in 2001, you had already planned to privatize the Ironworks. At that time, the ironworks had a debt of about HUF 70 billion, and you were midwives over the ironworks. 70 billion forints! 2004 came, and indeed the left-wing leadership placed the point on the i, and sold the Ironworks; I would add that at the same time the municipality sold its part-ownership, and the then-day Fidesz faction did not vote yes or no guilty party, who was silent. So in 2004, the Ironworks were privatized, the problems continued, nothing happened. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Talk to Gyurgy!]] I would add that 17 years ago, the Ironworks were privatized, of which you ruled 11 years. You've run 11 years, so pointing back is a waste of time. And then let's move on. In August and September of last year, serious problems occurred. In an unprecedented way, the collective agreement was terminated, and the government didn't say a word. From September to now, workers will receive their salaries in two instalments by breaking the law of management. You haven't done or raised a word for the workers in any month. The municipality and I have also tried to take advantage of our own opportunities and constantly warn you in writing and in speech that there are serious problems in the Iron Works. In October, the municipality sent an appeal, alive with its right under the Fundamental Law, to which we received a brief reply from Minister Gergely Gulyás: Vasmű is a private company and therefore the government has no obligation to help. Let's nuance this picture a little bit. What happens all the time? When you are asked why you are not helping and why you are not doing so for the Ironworks, you keep putting this one sentence on your shield that you have no obligation to help the Iron Works, but then comes the second sentence: why, what did Gergely Kálló do, and what did Tamás Pintér do. What false answer is that? [[Dr. Pál Völner: What have you done?]] It's not your duty to help, but is it ours? Because we're doing our job, and I'm speaking right now, but I haven't heard one word from you since September that you would have done for the Ironworks. So you don't have an obligation, the city council and the MP do? [[Interview from Fidesz: Yes!]] Well, what's that got to do with it? ! Please, gentlemen, what does that have to do with anything? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Prove!]] So there are pretty big anomalies here. And that's when we got to a team of about 500 security guards recently, on Friday. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Hungarian Guard!]] He appeared on the border of our city, trying to take over the ownership of a dangerous plant. To this day, we still do not know the intention, and to this day it is still unclear how it is possible for such savage Oriental methods to try to acquire property in a factory. You didn't ask for the owners. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To clear the papers, so I'm asking you to give me a detailed list of what you have done for the Danube Ironworks since the problem began. Thank you very much, I'll remain in the service of my district.
u2021-04-27-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[9.50]]
u2021-04-27-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to answer briefly. I find it unworthy that a false news that you launched last week is now being confirmed here in Parliament. It is quite unworthy and shows the level of better policy that has taken place in recent years. [[Noise, noise from Jobbik's benches. Interviews from the same place, including: What false news? What's the fake news? Intruder from the pro-government benches, you'd tell me.]] Distributors of false news will answer by legal means. As far as state wealth is concerned in general, this government, I would like to clarify, has increased the state's wealth since it has been in office, with thousands of billions of forints. State wealth has increased by one and a half times since 2010. The fact that who has done what and what has been done for the workers makes it clear that under the current government unemployment has fallen from 12 percent to less than 4 percent, and when the epidemic is over, it will be at that level again. Twelve percent belongs to the people you teamed up with. I would like to confirm to you that the Government is trying in every way to help workers in Hungary, even if they are in a difficult situation. In this particular case, the basic fact is that this company has been privatized. Now you can talk about all sorts of previous documents, but the fact is that this company has been privatized, and the basic circumstance is when it was privatized. [[Gergely Kálló, presenting a document signed by István Stumpf.]] And that was in 2004. It was privatized in 2004. There is the signature of the left-wing leaders, and this was the original sin, because the privatisation, as we see the consequence, cannot be undone, only in very rare cases. Because of the privatisation at that time, the fate of thousands of workers in Dunaújváros depends on the internal battles of foreign owners. That's the thing. Ferenc Gyurcsány has a huge role to play in this privatisation decision. Look at the history. This privatisation decision was defended a decade later, and your new boss defended this privatisation. The current governing parties were against privatisation and did not support this privatisation at the time. The better-looking mayor, since you've been consulting with him, look at him, he called this privatization a mess. That was ancient sin. I would like to ask you not to try to make the governing parties responsible for the privatisation at that time, not to drag the governing parties into this story, but to knock at your new boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You've been in government for 11 years!]] Let's say at the nearest negotiations, when they fight for positions and candidates. You should also ask why a significant part of the Hungarian industry had to be lost, because the fact is that we would not only be able to bring up the situation in Dunaújváros here. This example shows how unconventional a deal Jobbik has been made over the past few months. They joined forces with the people they were formed against, the people who scattered the state's wealth. So don't blame us, blame yourself. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Hollik has applied for a speech from the KDNP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, For more than a year, Hungary and the whole world have been fighting with the coronal virus epidemic, doing everything they can to protect people's lives, this is the primary goal, and the government is doing everything in cooperation with businesses in order to mitigate the economic impact of the crisis. In the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, we could hope that the epidemic could be controlled by restrictive measures. Hungary was at the forefront of this in Europe, so we were able to repress the first wave. Unfortunately, in many rich countries in Western Europe, there was no such thing as the fact that they simply could not provide health care for those who needed it. At the same time, the second and third waves have shown that this virus, especially the more aggressive, new mutant versions, can certainly not be defeated by mere restrictive measures. Since then, however, we know what the solution is: the vaccine, the vaccine is the solution. At the end of last year, the Member States of the European Union, including Hungary, decided to start negotiations together as a European Union with producers who had a plan and capacity to produce vaccines. At the end of the year, however, it became clear that the purchase of vaccines in Brussels had failed, and that the shipments would be delayed. Hungary has therefore taken the first step and decided not to fully comply with the Brussels procurement, and since we have vaccine, life saving, saving Hungarian life is not an ideological issue, so the government has started negotiating with everyone who has a vaccine. Of course, these vaccines, which Hungary purchased separately from the East, Russia and China, were examined by Hungarian professionals. As a result, any vaccine available in Hungary today is a safe and effective vaccine. As a result, we are significantly better at grafting than the European Union, first and second. We can say what none of the countries of the European Union has already been vaccinated by two thirds of those registered, thus being protected from the virus. You see, everyone can see that the government is working with great force to ensure that as many vaccines as possible arrive in Hungary. Another Russian shipment arrived just this morning. Therefore, we can say that this month or next month there will be so many vaccines that everyone who signs up can get their vaccination because we know that this is the solution. At the same time, we can also see that unfortunately the left has been twitching the protection against the epidemic all along. They started by screaming dictatorship and refusing to give the government the necessary authority, then spreading false news, producing camuvides, and starting an anti-vaccination campaign, first directly, then slylyly. Now you've got another certificate, another paperwork, that you're anti-vaccination. The recent public opinion poll by Policy Solutions, which cannot be accused of right-wing bias, shows the effect of your anti-vaccination campaign in black and white. Please ask this poller about right-wing and left-wing emotions about injecting themselves with the Russian or Chinese vaccine. It can be seen that those who support opposition parties, the left, are much more negative against the Eastern vaccine. This is your responsibility. The biggest irresponsible thing is that they endanger the lives of their own voters by dissuading them from taking these vaccines with their anti-vaccination campaign. We ask all of you not to believe the anti-vaccination left, and you should be ashamed of yourselves. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-26	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás State Secretary responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start by joining you and thanking all those involved in the defense, thanking you for the hard and hard work done by doctors, health workers, police officers, soldiers and many others throughout the country. Allow me to express my special thanks for the help of young Hungarians who take part in medical training, who study for doctors and health workers, and who undertake to take part in the front line in the fight and fighting, are at the ambulances, they are in the hospitals, they are there for the patients. We're grateful to them. [[10.00]] Honourable Congressman, We can also clearly see that the British virus mutant is far more dangerous than the previous version, able to infect more people, which is why the third wave in Europe and all over the world, the third wave of the epidemic, poses a much greater challenge for countries. And it is also clear, honourable Member, that the only solution is indeed the only one! the virus against the vaccine, it is the most effective, actually the only effective weapon. Therefore, there can be no other purpose for a political community, the leadership of a country, to obtain vaccination as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to enable its own citizens to be vaccinated. Honourable Congressman, I am happy to confirm what you said that we are really in the final line, the number of vaccinated people exceeded 3 million 600 thousand people, and it shows Hungary's performance, the performance of Hungarian doctors and Hungarian health care, which is so often attacked from the left that Hungary had the fastest vaccination rate in the first half of April, and vaccination is twice as high as the EU average. The success of the Hungarian vaccination programme is partly shown by these figures, and partly by the fact that the WHO leader in Europe has recently been here, who also acknowledged the Hungarian vaccination potential. Mr President, it is clear from the figures that 37% of the Hungarian population [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] has already been vaccinated, compared to 21 percent in the EU, but we are also asking everyone here to take the vaccine, and those who have not done so should register. Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, however, as you have said, we also find that the left is not helping the Hungarian people at all, they have been able to take advantage of such a serious pandemic, a health disaster for cheap political gain. It's their moral drama. It shows the level they've reached. Honourable Member, what the Hungarian left has done is in fact unprecedented, unparalleled throughout the world. There was an anti-vaccination campaign, and if it were up to them, we would be back there in terms of grafting, which means, of course, that much more people would have died in Hungary. They submitted a decision to the National Assembly on the basis of which they would have restricted the use of each vaccine, wanted committees of inquiry, and did their best to prevent the implementation of the vaccination programme, to dissuade the Hungarian people from taking the vaccine, the vaccination that means health and life. And it is also a sign of their moral position that now they want to deny it many times, but the Hungarian people will not believe it. You won't believe them, because they remember exactly the anti-vaccination texts you could hear from the entire left. The Hungarian people will remember this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr János Halász applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-04-27-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At the peak of the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic, we seem to have passed all signs, although many still need hospitalization, their numbers are, fortunately, constantly decreasing. The vaccination is going well, the vaccination campaign is going well. In the European Union, the second, the 12th highest, is the Hungarian graft. Millions of vaccines will arrive in the next few weeks, so by the end of May, every Hungarian person who asks can receive the vaccine. This is the vaccination programme that the World Health Organisation, WHO Regional Director visited Hungary last week, called exemplary. As a result, the terraces could be opened on the weekend behind us, and the cinemas, theatres, museums, swimming pools, sports events and hotels will be able to be visited with a protection certificate. Thank you for the sacrifice of those involved in the defense and vaccination campaign, we are counting on them, and they can count on the government led by Fidesz-KDNP. Unfortunately, the Hungarian left is still not to be expected. We can remember that last year, during the first and second waves, they tried to tweak and block all defensive decisions. If it had been on the left, neither jobs nor families could have received support during the coronal virus epidemic. The left rejected all necessary measures to protect health and the economy, and there was even something every day with which the defense was attacked: statistics were forged, chamomuvides were manufactured, false news was spread. But these were almost cute campaigns compared to the heartless, vile campaign of death on the left during the third wave against vaccination. Since the development of vaccines at the end of last year gave rise to the hope that the epidemic would be finally overcome, the Hungarian left has been conducting a coordinated, open, unscrupulous anti-vaccination campaign. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Last December, an expert on the left spoke for the first time about the left-wing vaccination strategy. He said, "The bet is high." If you undermine people's willingness to be vaccinated, Viktor Orbán must bear the political consequences. In his statement, the counselor also added: "If people do not inoculate themselves, Orbán will be to blame. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The left-wing politicians have started their anti-vaccination activities: they have launched a petition to ban the Chinese vaccine, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, to prevent the use of Eastern vaccines in a parliamentary decision proposal, and the proposal has not been withdrawn to this day. According to MEP Csaba Molnár, DK, the Hungarian government is sacrificing people with Eastern vaccines. Zoltán Varga, spokesperson for the DK faction, accused the Hungarian government of ordering false Chinese vaccines, thus talking about the vaccine: unknown origin, unauthorized, uncontrolled, unknown content, counterfeit. In Parliament, Peter James called the Chinese vaccines Chinese, and he was alarmed by the fact that it was made with obsolete technology. At the beginning of April, another left-wing political advisor on Pesti TV gave a reason to lead the left-wing death campaign to the top. He says even DK doesn't take advantage of the grief of their families who died in the coronal virus, even though it's a campaign. This cruel policy, which seeks to kill people, is rejected. When it comes to life, when it comes to health, you can't make politics out of it. The left, on the other hand, was anti-vaccination, against the purchase of the Hungarian vaccine, against the Eastern vaccines. Now, of course, you can see that people are fortunately on the side of vaccination, so they continue their anti-vaccination propaganda more cunningly and slylyly. Now they're questioning the fact that the vaccines you've given protect you from the serious disease. We ask them not to do this. They don't want to take political advantage of the inoculations, and they don't want to get votes out of the grief of those who mourn their deaths, as their advisors have announced. Let's just stop with the vaccine. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction will continue to fully support the government's vaccination strategy and its measures to restart the economy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, has responded to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the vaccine is the only solution to the disease as early as possible, which is why it is important for the left to withdraw its proposal for a parliamentary decision and even its proposals, since we can talk about two in which he proposed to ban Eastern vaccines. To this day, it has not happened, and to this day, left-wing representatives, although each of them has their signature on the submission sheet, but there is not even a single signature on the withdrawal sheet. [[10.10]] None of the left-wing representatives withdrew their signature on the parliamentary decision prohibiting Eastern vaccines. And that would be very necessary. If we look at the proportion of vaccinated people in Hungary who received a vaccine from joint procurement in the EU and from Hungarian procurement, we can see that there are about half and half of them, but at the same time we can see that vaccines are coming from Eastern acquisitions, i.e. from the procurement carried out by Hungary alone, much faster. More than 35 percent of the quantity we have contracted has already arrived, while only 14 percent of the EU's joint procurement has arrived. This means that if the vaccines obtained in the EU were to arrive at the same speed as the Eastern Vaccines, there would be 3 million more vaccines, 3 million more vaccines needed to inoculate 3 million people in Hungary, that is to say, it would be enough vaccine to inoculate 6.5 million people if the EU acquisition kept up the pace in the procurements committed by Hungary in separate contracts, China and Russia [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and if Hungary had listened to the left, only 1.6 million people would be vaccinated at the moment, because then we would only be able to immunise them with Western vaccines. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Sit down!]] In Hungary, as opposed to many countries richer than us, everyone who was hospitalized with a coronal virus infection received the necessary care. There were enough ventilators, there were enough hospital beds, there were enough doctors and nurses, thanks also to the fact that we trained 3643 doctors and 9535 nurses in the summer to care for patients with coronal viruses, but also thanks to the fact that doctors have not migrated abroad in the last ten years, since at the beginning of our administration 845 doctors asked for permission to work abroad 845; this number has now fallen from 845 to 282. If I add together the sum total of 845 and the lower emigration figures in each year, I see that 3173 fewer doctors have gone abroad than if the same level had been maintained in the last year of socialist governance. 3173 fewer doctors have gone abroad since 2010 than in the last year of the socialists' government. Already on April 20, 2020 the left was campaigning for death here, so more than a year ago, when Szabó Timea said what he still says, that most people in Hungary die from coronal virus infection in the whole round world. If we look at Eurostat data, we can see that this is not true, because Hungary is in the middle field, whether I look at the surplus mortality data for the year 2020 compared to 2019, or if I compare the first three months of this year with the first three months of 2019. From the region, Central Europe, Slovenia, Croatia and Romania are the only ones ahead of our country, but behind us is Lithuania, Latvia, Bulgaria, Estonia, Poland, Czech Republic or Slovakia, so, fortunately, Hungary is not in the position at all as the left wants to suggest, but is in the middle field in relation to additional deaths. It is very important that each vaccine protects against coronal virus infection. It is also apparent from the fact that at the end of the week there was a table on the side of the government that each vaccine was effective against the coronal virus, each vaccine can protect people against the coronal virus based on the experience of many hundreds of thousands and millions of previous vaccinations, but the left also wanted to draw the conclusion and suggest to the Hungarian people that there are vaccines that are more dangerous than others, and that they are trying to start such a debate, while this table has only one message that each vaccine is effective, each vaccine can protect people. While the WHO leader, Hans Kluge, praised the Hungarian vaccination program here in Budapest, the Hungarian left is attacking it. Fortunately, experts at home and WHO recognise the vaccination program, but the Hungarian left is attacking it. It would be worse if it were the other way around. We are proud that all experts acknowledge that. If the left had been able to decide on measures against the coronal virus, they would have been open earlier, in January-February, when we were on the threshold of the third wave, and they would have given less vaccination. This would mean more patients, more unfortunate deceased and a longer epidemic. But we also call on the left to withdraw their parliamentary proposal for a resolution banning Eastern vaccines. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. With great love and respect, I would like to welcome Congressman András Aradski. It's a great mercy that the good Lord has given him the opportunity to continue. Happy birthday, Andrew. Before we begin making decisions, I would ask the staff of the hall service to please check the change of voting machines in the horseshoe. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group requested a five-minute recess, so we will continue our work at 10:22. [[10 hours 19 minutes short break.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We'll get back to work. Dear House, Fellow Members! It is now time for decisions on the agenda. [[10.20]] In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of your voting machines' presence buttons now. [[Attendance check: present 189, away 10.]] There are 189 Members present, away from 10, the Parliament has a quorum. I'm asking if everyone's computer works. [[No signal.]] I don't see any sign-ups, so the National Assembly is operational. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2020, B/14647. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the designated committee by 134 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Representative Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, I/16001. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 61 against and 1 abstention. Now Molnár Zsolt, representative of MSZP I/16013. We will decide on the answer to your interpellation No 1 which the Member did not accept. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. László Varju, representative of DK, I/1602. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP representative, I/16008. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Member Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, I/16010. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 61 against and 1 abstention. Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, I/15958. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 61 against and 1 abstention. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, I/16003. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the response to the interpellation of Congressman Zoltán Varga. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. Mr Dezső, Member of the MSZP, Member of the I/16009. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament, accept the answer to the interpellation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 61 against, with 1 abstention. Ms Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, Ms I/1606. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 132 votes in favour, 60 against and 1 abstention. It follows that Appendix 19 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944, and its Amendment 1 are to be published in a uniform structure. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15697. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 189 votes against, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. It follows that T/15397 on the amendment of certain laws relating to urban planning will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15397/6, and T/15397/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 2, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 2 and the LMP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Anita Kőrösi Potocsáné. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. [[10.30]] Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/15397/6 of the LMP Group. A separate vote was initiated on point 35 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the point requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 27 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. The adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15397/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 60 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 35 of the draft amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15397/6. Point 35 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote by 164 votes to 23, with four abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15397/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15397/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15397/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. It follows a series of amendments to certain law enforcement administrative laws in order to strengthen public security T/15705. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1575/8. and the summary report by T/1575/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2, 3 and 4. That's what we decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Mr Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Mr Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/1575/8. A separate vote was initiated on point 53 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the point requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 1-11, 19 and 57 of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1575/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 150 votes in favour, 23 against and 20 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 53, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1575/8. Point 53 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 138 votes in favour, 49 against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1575/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 151 votes in favour, 23 against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1575/12. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 150 votes in favour, 12 against and 30 abstentions. [[10.40]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1575/12. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 151 votes in favour, 12 against and 30 abstentions. It follows now that the T/15715 on the transfer of the maintenance rights of the Eszterházy Károly University to the Egri County of Egri. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/157157.7. T/15715/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/157157. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes to 53, with one abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/157159. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 141 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/157159. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 140 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. Next up is the T/15709 on the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15709/4. and a summary report by T/15709/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of points 1 to 5, 7 to 24, 26 to 39 and points 43, 68 and 75 to 5 respectively, the decision will therefore be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1509/4. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the part of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1509/4. The additional part of the summary amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the remainder of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15709/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15709/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/15710 on public-interest trust foundations with a public service mission. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15710/14. and a summary report by T/15710/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed to maintain the amendments Nos 3, 5 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 128 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 5 is also proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Group leader. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 129 against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 8 is also proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 60 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1 to 30 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. [[10.50]] First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15710/14. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15710/14. An additional point requiring a simple majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional point requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the Fundamental Law, the adoption of all the provisions of the single proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/15710/17 requiring a qualified majority. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. T/15706 on certain provisions relating to asset management and amending certain laws concerning asset management and national financial services Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Summary of the Legislative Committee's proposal T/1570/6. T/15706/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 6 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1570/6. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1570/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15706/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15706/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. Next up is T/1571 on the Hausmann Foundation and on the asset allocation to Hausmann Foundation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15711/4 and T/1571/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1571/4. Point requiring a qualified majority of the amending proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority point of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1571/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 60 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1571/16. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1571/16. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Next up is the T/15712 on the Foundation for the University of Szeged, the Foundation for the University of Szeged and the University of Szeged. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15712/8, and T/15712/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 131 against and 2 abstentions. [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] The machine didn't work? [[Zoltán Bóna: It doesn't work!]] It's not working. Please, and what was your vote? [[Zoltán Bóna: No!]] His vote was not. [[11.00]] Then the number of votes in the gender will change to 131+1, or 132, which I would like to record in the minutes. I would like to ask you to examine the machine so that the congressman can continue his work without delay, and please put your mask on. [[Zoltán Bóna: It still doesn't work! Zoltán Bóna puts on his mask.]] Still not working? [[Zoltán Bóna: No.]] Then I'll ask you to raise your hand at every vote, and I'll ask our technical staff to take a look at the plane. [[A moment's pause.]] Sorry for these few minutes, but there is now a consultation between the Deputy Director-General and the technical staff, so that they can now correct this failure during the vote, or at every vote, the Member must indicate how he voted. [[It's a short break. For signal:]] Thank you very much. At the moment, my information is that you have failed to correct your voting machine, so Congressman Zoltán Bóna will keep his vote in the following minutes, and I will put the extra vote where he intends to put it. Thank you very much. We are now deciding on a further part of the summary amendment that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15712/8. The additional part of the summary amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, there's a change in the script here, page 63. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article, point 4, point 5, are replaced by the following: A majority qualified for the acceptance of paragraphs 5, 7 to 13 and 16 to 19 of paragraphs 1 to 4, 4 and 5 respectively, shall be required and the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15712/8. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament requires a qualified majority in the summary amendment 133 yes Zoltán Bóna? [[Zoltán Bóna: Yes.]] plus 1, by 134 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on a further part of the summary amendment that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15712/8. The additional part of the summary amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, i.e. 134 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15712/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, i.e. 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15712/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, i.e. 133 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. The Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance, the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Dance and the T/15713. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15713/6 and T/15713/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has voted in favour of the amendment by 60 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 130+1, i.e. 131 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2 and 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15713/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, i.e. 133 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.10]] We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15713/6. An additional point requiring a simple majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. I always look out for Congressman Bona, and he signals his vote to me. It is now the final vote, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, which require a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15713/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15713/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the Foundation for the University of Dunaújváros, the Foundation for the University of Dunaújváros and the T/15714. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15714/6, and T/15714/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's amendment by 63 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 126+1, so 127 did not vote for and did not hold by 1 vote. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that in point 1 of this Article, point 3 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 1 and 4 and Article 4 A qualified majority shall be required for the adoption of the provision establishing §2 and points 2, 4, 5, 8 and 9, and the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15714/6. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requires a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on a further part of the summary amendment that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15714/6. The additional part of the summary amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15714/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15714/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation and Tokaj-Hegyalja University, T/15716. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15716/8. and the summary report by T/15716/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has voted in favour of the amendment by 59 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 129+1, so it did not have a vote and 2 votes in favour. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 4 and 7, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15716/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.20]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15716/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15716/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15716/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the T/15717 on the Foundation for the Budapest University of Economics, the Foundation for the Budapest University of Economics and the Budapest University of Economics. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15717/6 and T/15717/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's amendment by 61 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 130+1, so 131 did not vote against, with 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15717/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15717/6. An additional point requiring a simple majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15717/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15717/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the Universitas Quinqueecclesien sis Foundation, Universitas Quinqueecclesiensis Foundation and T/15718 on asset allocation to the University of Pécs Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15718/8. and the summary report by T/15718/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has voted in favour of the amendment by 59 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 130+1, so 131 did not vote against, with 2 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 3, 5 to 9 and 12 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15718/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15718/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.30]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15718/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15718/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, by 135 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstention. It follows from the Makovecz Campus Foundation, the capital injection to the Makovecz Campus Foundation and the free ownership of state-owned property. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15719.5. and a summary report by T/15719/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 and 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15719.5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15719.5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 129+1, by 130 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15719/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15719/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. Next up is the Foundation for the University of Physical Education, the Foundation for Physical Education and the T/1572. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15720/6. T/15720/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is a proposal from Vice-President Brenner Koloman and a qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has voted in favour of the amendment by 60 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 128+1, so it didn't last against 129, with 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 and 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15720/6. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15720/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, by 132 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15720/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, by 134 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15720/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, by 135 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. [[11.40]] Next up is the T/15721 on the National Health and Medical Training Foundation, the National Health and Medical Training Foundation and the University of Semmelweis. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. A summary of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/1572/16 and its summary report T/1572/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 6 and 11 and 12 respectively, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1572/16. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1572/16. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1572/18. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1572/18. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. Now, T/15722 on the establishment and implementation of the MOL New Europe Foundation. The decision and final vote follow on from the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15722/4 and T/15722/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 and 3, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15722/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15722/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15722.6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15722.6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. Next is the Rudolf Kalman Foundation for the University of Óbuda, the Rudolf Kalman Foundation for the University of Óbuda and the T/15723. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/15723/6, and T/15723/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman, and a qualified majority is required for the reservation. That is why I am asking the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's proposal to amend... [[There's a whistle. Sándor Font reporting.]] Congressman, first of all, the whistle, if it's from you. [[Alexander Font says yes.]] I'm warning you. Because the notaries are sitting here to determine if someone has a problem. [[Sándor Font continues to report.]] Congressman Font. [[Sándor Font: My voting machine didn't work!]] Congressman, I would have looked and I could have said it when I asked. So the Parliament voted in favour of the amendment by 57 votes in favour, [[On the sign of Zoltán Bóna and Sándor Font:]] 133+2, i.e. 135 with no vote and no 2 abstentions. I now request a two-minute technical break in order to determine how Congressman Font's machine really works. I'd like the technical staff and gym staff to take a look at this, please. [[It's a short break.]] [[11.50]] Fellow Members! [[Noise. Move, some congressmen are leaving their seats.]] Everybody stay calm, take your seats, because, by the way, we're in the middle of a vote, and I only had to stop the vote because of the difficulty that came up. At the moment, I have been informed that Congressman Font's machine is working, so in this case it was not an extra two votes, but I have to add an extra one, i.e. 1 out of the votes cast on the proposal of Vice-President Brenner Koloman, because it still worked. I would ask the notaries, the serial notaries, to note this at the signing of the record, the diary. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would also ask you to take your seats, and I ask you all to take your seats. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 3, 4, 7 and 8, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15723/6. A qualified majority of the provisions of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 56 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15723/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15723/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15723/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It follows a line from the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza, the Foundation for the University of Nyíregyháza and the T/15724. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15724/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman, which requires a qualified majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament shall vote in favour of the amendment by 58 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so it did not maintain it against 133, with 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 3 and 5, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15724/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 130+1, so by 131 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15724/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15724/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 133+1, so by 134 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15724/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 134+1, so by 135 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. [[12.00]] It follows from the Future Generations Land Foundation, T/15725 on the asset allocation to the Future Generations Land Foundation and on the amendment of certain laws in this context. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15725/5. and a summary report by T/15725/ No. 6. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Zoltán Magyar. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has voted in favour of the amendment by 50 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 101+1, that's 102... [[Several have indicated that their voting machine is not working.]] Well, I'm gonna stop this vote right now, because suddenly there's a lot of people who didn't vote on their computer. So the problem is 50 yeses? [[There's no such signal.]] That wasn't a problem. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: that's all there are! It's okay. There's a problem with them! There's just enough numbers! The following results are displayed on the display: 50 votes in favour, 101 votes not, 1 abstention.]] Yeah. Good. [[It's a short break.]] We will repeat the vote, because at the moment the problem is opaque. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The system can't handle so many thefts.]] We'll wait until the technical staff tries to set up the machines. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm saying that the system can't handle so many thefts...]] Several machines did not work on both sides, so we saw this not only on the opposition side, but also on the pro-government side. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I think there should be an exemption from public procurement here. Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: This was still yours!]] I got the information that everyone's computer works. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We'll see about that.]] We'll do it again. Can we do a presence check? 'Cause that's when we finally get to decide how the machine works. [[For signal:]] We can. I get that answer on purpose. We will now repeat the vote on Amendment No 2, the proposal of Zoltán Magyar, but first we will have a presence check. Ready? [[It's a lot of noise.]] Then I'd like you all to take your seats because we're conducting a presence check. Fellow Members, take your seats because we are conducting a presence check. Now let's see how the machines work for everyone. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai! I'm listening. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I can't hear you because they talk...]] So I would ask the technical staff to set up the machines for presence checks, and I would ask my fellow Members... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Here! For signal:]] Won't all three presences appear? Then please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Gyurcsány is not present! Attendance check: present 190, away 9.]] My monitor indicates that 190 congressmen are present and nine are away. There's more people reporting that their computer's not working. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Secretary Pál Völner's machine doesn't work. Please, Mr Pál Völner does not work either, and Mr Zoltán Bóna still does not work. On departure there were 190+10... (Signing:) Does it work? I'd like the technical staff to make sure that Pál Völner's shoe machine is working. He's not in his seat. He's in the horseshoe. Should we do another presence check? [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: No! Let's vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Don't be insecure. I'm gonna need another presence check, please. Ready? [[For signal:]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, we will now have a presence check. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check: present 189, away 10.]] [[For signal:]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, we will now have a presence check. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. (Performance check: present 189, away 10.) 189 present and 10 away. Congressman Zoltán Bóna's computer doesn't work. So everyone else's computer works, notary? (To be indicated:) Thank you very much. We can continue our work. We will therefore go back to Amendment No 2, which was registered by Mr Zoltán Magyar, and which requires a qualified majority to maintain. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's amendment to the amendment 58 yes... [[Result displayed on the display: 58 yes, 130 no, 1 stay. You're very grateful for Anett's signal:]] I think your machine is working, Congresswoman, because it's 189, and there's only one machine, Congressman Bona's, according to my information, which doesn't work. I would like you to verify that Mrs Anett Bősz's computer is working or not, but I am asking my fellow Members to try. [[12.10]] Congresswoman, 58+130+1 for 189 plus 1, Congressman Bona, this is 190. It's all right with me. [[Noise.]] The machine says it's okay. I accept that it did not work for the congresswoman, so 58+1, so 59 votes against, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 130+1, with 131 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the Parliament did not maintain the amendment. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15725/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly with 131 votes in favour of the summary amendment , 57 votes against, with no abstentions accepted. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15725/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 56 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15725/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. The Foundation for Hungarian Culture and the Foundation for Hungarian Culture and the Petőfi Literature Agency T/1572. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15726/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment. T/15726/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15726/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, so by 132 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15726/5. An additional point requiring a simple majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, by 132 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15726/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, so by 132 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15726/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, so by 132 votes in favour, 60 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is the Gróf Tisza István Foundation for University of Debrecen, T/1557. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15727/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Vice-President Brenner Koloman. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament shall vote in favour of the amendment by 58 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, so 132 did not vote against, with 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of points 2 to 7, 9 to 11, 14 and 15, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15727/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requests a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15727/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I say the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, so by 133 votes in favour, 58 votes against and no abstentions. [[12.20]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15727/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, by 132 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15727/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, by 132 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. T/15728 on the regulation of higher education and on the amendment of certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15728/6. and a summary report by T/15728/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that 1-3, 5, 11-14, 16, 18, 21 § 20, 21, 23, 25, 26, 28, 30, 34-36, 39, 40, 42, 44, 58. § (1) and (3) and Article 59. Paragraph 1 and 3 requires a qualified majority for the adoption of paragraphs 48, 49, 51, 54, 56, 58, 60-62, 66-68, 71, 72, 75 and 82-86. The decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15728/6. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requires a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 131+1, by 132 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on a further part of the summary amendment that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15728/6. The additional part of the summary amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament requires a simple majority of the summary amendment proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 129+1, by 130 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15728/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a qualified majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, by 133 votes to 59, with no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/15728/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 132+1, by 133 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 21 April 2021 14.Bpk.752/2020/7. I'm a member of the Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/16055. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I give the floor to President János Harghitai before the decision is taken. [[Gergely Harvester: Let's hear it!]] the Chairman of the Committee, who shall present the Committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has already been said here, in the transcript of the Pécs District Court, Ákos Hadházy reached out to the immunity committee in order to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary Congressman Ákos Hadházy, for the offence of defamation. Mihály Witzmann is a Member of Parliament. Facebook again, like so many times... On 12 February 2020, Mr Hadházy made a Facebook entry in which Mr Witzmann made comments on the purchase and reconstruction of a property in Balatonlelle, as he usually does. As he puts it, the Member deceived the authorities, but did not know him, so Mr Hadházy reached out to a claviculture and discussed fraud and tricks in his writing. Congressman Witzmann resented this, and he turned to the court, which I understand, but following his previous practice, the Committee decided that this was a private motion, and therefore the work of the Parliament should be protected so that Congressman Hadházy could visit Parliament as much as possible, of course, with a majority decision, so that the parliamentary representative Ákos Hadházy would not suspend his immunity in this particular case. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will ask Mr Ákos Hadházy to tell me that he has a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman. [[Uproar and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2021-04-27-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask the Parliament, however, to suspend my immunity, or to ask Members to whom I am talking about his schemings and thefts, so to speak, that if they complain, they should not report me for defamation, because they know very well that it will not be brought to trial, but that they should sue me in a civil suit for defamation. Thank you very much. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-04-27-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Fellow Members! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Calm down, please. We're just minutes away from the end of today's voting block. [[12.30]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the parliamentary congressman's immunity from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the immunity of Congressman Ákos Hadházy with 40 votes in favour, [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 117+1 did not suspend him, that is to say 118 against, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that Mr. Speaker of the Parliament Act 46. Paragraph 1 (b), paragraph 47. Acting in the power of paragraph 1 (a), Ms Ágnes Vadai DK and Ms 46/E of the Parliament Act. Article 47 (1) (a) Acting under paragraph 1 (c), Bence Tordai ordered a reduction in the fee of his representative. Members have asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions. The committee did not agree to the Members' request. Next, the Parliament Act 51. On the basis of paragraph 7 (b), the Members asked that the Speaker's decisions be repealed by the Parliament. In view of this, the resolution rule of 148. Under paragraph 2 of Section H/15900, Mr Speaker submitted a proposal for a resolution. and H/16005. the same content as the previous decision to reduce Members' fees. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Couldn't you be 007?]] Mr Speaker submitted a proposal for a resolution under Rule H/15900. and H/16005. the same content as the previous decision to reduce Members' fees. (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Couldn't you be 007?) I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for decisions, the related decisions of the Speaker of the House, the relevant requests for representatives, as well as the information provided by the President of the Committee on Exemptions, have been made available to all of you on the website. In accordance with the provisions of the house rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the Speaker's decision is annulled by the Parliament, the Members' fees will not be reduced, the Parliament Act 47. Paragraph 1 (a) and (c) respectively, the proceedings brought against them shall cease. The Speaker's decisions on the reduction of the fee shall be decided by Parliament without discussion, separately for each representative. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the fees of Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai is H/15900. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's decision as Speaker of the House [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 117+1, i.e. 118 votes in favour, 55 votes against, with one abstention, and proceedings against the Member remain pending. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the fees of Congressman Bence Torda is maintained by H/16005. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's decision as Speaker of the House [[For Zoltán Bóna:]] 116+1, i.e. 117 votes in favour, 55 votes against and two abstentions. Now, I would like to ask Mr. Winner Vinnai to present the decisions that have just been adopted. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-04-27-37	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act No. Ogytv. 51. Acting under the powers set out in paragraphs 8 and 9 (b), Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Bence Tordai are members of the Parliament of Ogytv. 51. § 7 (b) on the request of the President of the National Assembly OE-41/210-1/2021. the decision by Dr. Ágnes Vadai on the reduction of the fee of honor and OE-41/174-1/2021. Bence Tordai maintains his decision to reduce the honor fee of the Parliamentary Representative to the extent that Dr. Ágnes Vadai's Parliamentary Representative's fee is reduced by HUF 2 058 360 per month, the honor fee of Bence Tordai Parliamentary Representative will be reduced by HUF 8 233 440 per month, equivalent to its four-month amount.
u2021-04-27-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I now give the chairmanship to Vice President Sándor Lezsák, who will order a break immediately. Thank you very much for your cooperation. [[Dr. Zoltán Balczó: Thank you, Mr. President. Applause in the benches of Jobbik. It's a short break.]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-27-39	Dear Parliament, We congratulate President Latorcai for leading the plenary session in a hard, parabled way. We'll continue our work slowly. I would like to ask those who wish to leave the Chamber to do so as soon as possible. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Discussions and general debates are now taking place in committee reports and in summary amendments. In view of the pandemic situation, I would like to ask that only the next speaker and the following two speakers be present in the Chamber, as far as possible. Dear Parliament, It follows the debate on the legislative report and the amendment proposal submitted to the Act on the publication of the Agreement on the amendment of the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Single Resolution System, adopted by the President of the Republic on 22 February 2021. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature 14941/1. Letter from the President of the Republic No 14941/2. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. [[Noise.]] I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. [[12.40]]
u2021-04-27-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/14941/1 of the Agreement amending the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Single Resolution System. the bill sent back for consideration. The legislative committee's report and its proposal for amendment are set out in Article 78 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Single Resolution System aims to ensure a uniform approach to failing financial institutions, thereby enhancing the stability of institutions in participating Member States. It also aims to prevent the spill-over of crises in non-participating Member States, thus facilitating the functioning of the internal market as a whole. If a bank is found today to be in a state of bankruptcy or likely to be in such a situation in the near future, then in the first round, the SRM is entitled to seek a solution. This body was set up by a regulation of 15 June 2014 on the Single Resolution System, with an intergovernmental agreement of May 2014 setting up the Single Resolution Fund to cover future costs. The Fund shall be filled by the financial institutions of the Member States participating in the Banking Union. At the same time, the legislator had to think that if the fund was completely empty, Member States would be able to intervene by appropriate means. Accordingly, the 2014 IGA on the Single Resolution System was amended by creating a common safety net. The role of the safety net will be played by the European Stability Mechanism established in 2012 under the Intergovernmental Agreement between the euro area countries, which was originally planned to be introduced by the beginning of 2024. In the meantime, however, several Member States and the European Commission have also initiated the introduction of a common safety net. At the meeting of the Eurogroup on 30 November 2020, Member States agreed to reform the European Stability Mechanism. Accordingly, a common safety net may be introduced from the beginning of 2022, i.e. two years before the original deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, Non-euro area Member States joining the Banking Union will be able to join the safety net with parallel credit lines. The international treaty before us therefore regulates the amendment of the European Stability Mechanism in detail. We have to recognise that events that have a negative impact on the global economy from time to time, we have to think about the crisis in the global economy that started in 2008, which has lasted for several years, or the global crisis that exploded last year and has continued since then. In such cases, rapid decisions are needed at both EU and national level. The Act adopted on 22 February 2021 was sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, the reason for which the final version of the Act did not contain a date, as all Member States could not finally sign it at the same time as the change of government in Estonia. The signature took place on 27 January 2021 for the 26 Member States and on 8 February 2021 for Estonia. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-27-41	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I will ask Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[On Gábor Gion's mark:]] At the end of the debate, he'll signal. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to the pre-notified speaker, independent Member Andrea Varga-Damm, in a four-minute timeframe.
u2021-04-27-42	[[On his T-shirt, the inscription is, "Can I be in this circus, but I can't go into the real one?"]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the Republic returned this bill, i.e. the law which has already been voted on, with the following justification: the intergovernmental agreement states that the authentic Hungarian text, which is contained in Annex 1, sets out the provisions for the applicability of the intergovernmental agreement and the position of the President of the Republic that, since it is not precisely stated that the agreement contained in Annex 1 is in fact the authentic Hungarian text, which creates uncertainty as to the applicability of the legislation, it sends it back. That's why we consume energy, money, and that's why the President of the Republic has an institution. The President of the Republic, who signed without a word the outsourcing of the entire university world; the President of the Republic, who signed without a problem during the emergency, the laws that were totally against the law; and the President of the Republic who spoke for the first time after six months when the outbreak raged. It is no wonder that in Hungarian society there is great confidence in the Presidential institution of the Republic, in practice, we can say that there is no trust, and after Árpád Göncz, Ferenc Mádl, President László Sólyom was the President of the Republic in this country, who kept the dignity of this office and carried it on, we are now at a point where our President is not at all disturbed by a series of anti-law laws, but he is able to see the question of translation that might be misunderstood in the annexes to an intergovernmental agreement. Well, I apologize, fellow Members, for mocking this institution! It has been established that a multitude of citizens say that, as a taxpayer, they do not want to spend money on the Presidential institution of the Republic, because they do not meet their expectations. If we see the President of the Republic speaking on substantive issues at least three or four times a year, then I say that it is okay, then we must also note that the translation of an annex can be misinterpreted or not, but that this is the only thing he notices and sends back, this is, don't be angry, but it destroys the authority of the entire Parliament, destroying the authority of the President of the Republic as an institution. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: True!]] I ask my fellow Members to speak with one voice for the sake of unity, and not only for the opposition, but also for the pro-government people, that if the President of the Republic is a representative of the unity of the nation, he is the one who votes for every member of Hungarian society, regardless of who his race is, or what his gender identity is, or for whatever reason he is united, then speak in substance and speak when it is the time and when it is required by the nation, the members of the nation. Of course, since this legislation creates a justified institutional system, it is not a question that I will vote for this amendment myself, but I thought that I should speak up in the Parliament for the fact that the President of the Republic is not here to send back a bill as a substitute for such a pissant for administrative reasons. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but to represent the unity of the nation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-27-43	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Gyula Molnár, MSZP.
u2021-04-27-44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The only reason I stood up on this difficult day was because we had so many debates, so many kinds of excitement, and there will probably still be a budget before us, is that it may be worth talking sometimes about something where we have a consensus and constructive sentences and constructive criticism may be formulated. The 2008 financial crisis, I think, has clearly highlighted to everyone how fragmented it is in Europe, how incomplete the financial control system that has been built is. In all aspects, I think it is justified, very, very long ago, that such a step should be taken. I think it is extremely important what has been said in the debate on this proposal that it is not with taxpayers' money that this kind of thing will be created, but with some kind of financial support from the banks of the Member States, the Member States. And I would also like to confirm that the three pillars that, when this is finally adopted and entered into force in all Member States, these three pillars, which can create a system of uniform supervision, can create a system of deposit protection, and that, what we are talking about now, the single resolution system is also in place, which I think will be a guarantee that it will be a safety for people, this will be the last safe haven to which we can turn to in a critical and difficult situation. [[12.50]] I myself do not want to put in such a cornered sentence as Andrea Varga-Damm in connection with the institution and role of the President of the Republic, I will do so in another amendment which I personally submitted, but let me really say that I am terribly sorry that the Hungarian Parliament is delaying to accept such a thing because of something so technical. But once again, I stood up to say that we will support this and thank you for the presentation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-27-45	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary.
u2021-04-27-46	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I have prepared here a brief presentation of what the intergovernmental agreement is about, but Congressman Héjj has been kind enough to say this, so let me not repeat it in view of the time. It is well known that on 3 March, the President of the Republic returned the bill to Parliament for consideration and, as a reason, marked the absence of date because, in his absence, it is not clear that the agreement contained in the bill is indeed the authentic Hungarian text. In the final version of the Agreement, the marked part concerning the date has been deleted from the text prepared for signature. The date of 27 January and 8 February was indicated in separate pages from the document containing the agreement, so it was signed on two dates, signed on 27 by 26 Member States, but the representative of Estonia was not authorised to sign because of the formation of the Estonian Government, so he signed it on 8 February. However, the format prepared for the signature did not allow for the date of the two dates, and it was finally deleted from the text of the agreement, but the Commission did not inform the Member States of the date leaving the date, and this was revealed only after receiving the authentic text. What happened was that the Commission did not send out the version of the agreement to the Member States that was finally signed, so yes, the error is technical, but it is an important mistake, and the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, has drawn attention to this, and we are grateful for that, by the way. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] As for the delay, we are not late for anything, so we are not among the last to ratify this agreement, so we are absolutely on time. Dear Parliament, On that basis, I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-47	Thank you, Secretary Gábor Gion. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax. The Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15395. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-27-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1995 CXVII on personal income tax. Law and the 2017 CL on the Rules of Taxation. a bill amending the law. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 2 votes in favour. Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is to enable 15-25-year-olds to create their own existence as soon as possible, get their own homes and start a family. In order to achieve this objective as soon as possible, the Government decided that, from 1 January 2022, young people under the age of 25 will be exempted from paying the average gross national income tax of 15 per cent, so that only the social security contributions of their gross wages, and even in cases where they are employed under student associations, will not have to be deducted. With the measure, a young person working 40 hours a week can increase his salary by HUF 44 thousand per month, with more than half a million HUF 526,000 per year. If we take into account about 8 percent of young people who earn less, then the monthly earnings of the entire age group concerned may increase by approximately HUF 40,000 on average and by HUF 450 thousand in one year. A total of half a million young people can benefit better from this measure, i.e. those who work even during a shorter period or part-time work in a given year can also benefit better. At national economic level, if we count the increase in gross average earnings projected for next year, HUF 150 billion of extra income may remain for young people under 25 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, we see that the government is committed to supporting young people with real measures to achieve their independence as soon as possible, both in terms of continuing their studies and in terms of working conditions and starting a family, as we know that all help is useful for this age group. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-49	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, who is present on behalf of the authors, whether he wishes to express his thoughts now or later.
u2021-04-27-50	Thank you very much, Mr President, at the end of the debate.
u2021-04-27-51	Later, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm came forward to comment. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, this proposal is hypocritical. Why is he a hypocrite? Because the luckier young social groups are still learning a significant part before they are 25 years old, and we want all of us who want the development of our country to be so. A survey among young people was held by one of the moderate public opinion researchers, where the response of young people to this proposal was as follows: thanks, not tax breaks, but fair wages; they want to pay taxes and pay the same wages as in the Western European countries, for example, for equal performance. We all know that there have been a great deal of disruption since the government reduced the mandatory provisions for learning to 16 years. If it were up to me, I would raise this to 20 years, of course, so that those who graduate or receive their professional qualifications first should not be obliged to do so. Why do I say that? The competitiveness of our country depends essentially on the quality of education and the wide range of social groups that receive education. Rather, the government should strive to learn as much as possible from young people up to the age of 25 rather than to get into the labour market too early and, in practice, to be willing to train and learn at some point. I would like to draw your attention to another very important circumstance. When we make legislation, we do the right thing by looking at all aspects of it in advance in terms of social, economic and social conditions and trying to eliminate the risks as far as possible. [[13.00]] Do you know what follows from 1 January, my fellow Members? This proposal creates intergenerational tension. What does the employee care about? How much money you get net. That's what he's interested in. The gross one, of course, is laid down in the contract, but he is interested in how much he receives. Have you considered, fellow Members, that employers will be able to employ under 25 people for less than older people? In this way, if older people are fired from work and under 25 are hired, for example, as trained workers, the employer will benefit from less contributions than a lower gross amount. From older people, who even have to retire, and it would be very necessary for them to be able to prove as much time as possible until the retirement age, many of these people will lose their jobs from 1 January. It's not possible, please, with a nice legislative proposal, because yes, it's nice that people under 25 who work don't pay taxes, but I can't create tensions between generations and even against their own parents. Did you think about that? I think we need decent wages, and then people are happy to take part in public burdens. Let us teach young people to gain knowledge for as long as possible so that they can do a truly valuable job for the rest of their lives. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-27-53	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Dávid Héyj, Fidesz, applied for a comment.
u2021-04-27-54	Very briefly. If I quote the congresswoman correctly, young people in a better position said they could learn until they were 25. I think I worked before I was 25 when I was a young man in Budapest who was in a better position. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I worked when I was 23.]] But I think that we have all worked throughout the university, and I think that this proposal will also help those who work part-time. In addition, we should also briefly say that when the government introduced 40, I did not feel intergenerational or even gender tension. It was the same, Congresswoman, then, that we could hear words that would also lead to conflicts between men and women, the former faction, perhaps your former faction, was the one that made it possible for men to become 40, too. So I think that we should trust Hungarian society so much that we will not be jealous of each other. I think that in a normal country this is right, that we can be happy that young people are in a better position. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-55	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, sitting here on behalf of the authors.
u2021-04-27-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would just like to respond to what has been said in a few thoughts, firstly, to what was said by Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, who unfortunately left the meeting room, so that I cannot answer her. But still, I think maybe it's important for the National Assembly that I answer. I am looking for the right word, let us just say that I find it strange, and I think that we are all this way, that, before the Parliament, there is now a proposal that has reduced taxes and even exempts income for young people under the age of 25, and a representative of the opposition, a representative of the left, says that people would rather pay taxes. By the way, in the original general debate itself, people often seemed as if opposition representatives had not read this bill. We believe that we are trying to help young people with all our means. Andrea Varga-Damm also said that this proposal is hypocritical, because in 25 years young people usually work. At the time when we made the presentation, we looked at 280,000 young people working in Hungary today. If we take it here, joining Congressman Dávid Héyj, that they will be able to benefit from this discount for student workers in student associations, and this is now 180 thousand people, then we can say that now this proposal can help half a million young people start their lives. By the way, in Hungary there are a little over a million people, young people between the ages of 15 and 25. So I think that this is a very important proposal. I regret that the amendments discussed and adopted at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which meant that those who took advantage of the first married couple... should not be in a position not to be able to avail themselves of a discount for those under the age of 25. We have adopted such an amendment, which was not supported by the current DK representative Gergely Arató and Tamás Csányi and Róbert Dudás, the Jobbik representatives. I do not understand why a proposal that wants to give young people something is not supported by MEPs. The government is constantly expanding the scope of support that will help young people to learn, start a family, build a home, learn a language and find their place. In the 15-29-year-old population, the number of unemployed people fell by 60 percent between 2010 and 2020. We have also introduced a number of measures to help young people, and the promotion of young people under the age of 25 in the framework of today's economic re-launch action plan, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow, will also help young people to get a job, to create a home, to have children, to raise children, and to fit into this line, with which the government has been supporting families for 11 years now. I ask Members of the Parliament to consider, in tomorrow's vote, that we help young people not only with pro-government votes, but, if possible, that if Hungarian young people are important to the opposition, we also adopt this bill with their votes. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-27-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Róbert Zsigo. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports to be submitted to the Government of Hungary and the Government of Sweden on the announcement of an agreement between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the termination of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and the discussion of the summarised amendment. The government referral is T/13933. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-27-58	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13933 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Sweden between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the termination of the agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In its oral list sent on 20 February 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sweden proposed the termination of the agreement between our countries in 1987 on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Our North Partner has signed the contract in question with the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic, so it is timely to review this agreement, which has now become obsolete, as well as its 34 years since then. However, the main reason for the international legal action is that, according to the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the arbitration clauses of the Investing State laid down in bilateral investment agreements within the EU undermine the system of redress provided for by the EU Treaties, thereby endangering the autonomy, effectiveness, priority and direct scope of Union law and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. [[13.10]] In order to comply with Union law, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements in a multilateral or more effective bilateral manner. Ladies and gentlemen, The termination of the investment protection agreement before us therefore ensures consistency with the legislation of the European Union. It is also an important part of the international agreement in question that paragraph 2 provides that the Parties agree that Article 14 (3) of the Agreement referred to in paragraph 1 which extends the protection to investments carried out before the date of termination shall expire and shall cease without legal effect after the entry into force of the Agreement. In this way, it is adequately ensured that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of producing additional legal effects after its expiry on the basis of the current bill. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Károly Panczél and Tamás Vargha applaud.]]
u2021-04-27-59	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I'll ask the author, now or later... [[Tamás Vargha: Later.]] Later. Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, Therefore, the debate is closed, and I am now giving the floor to Mr Vargha, State Secretary.
u2021-04-27-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As my fellow Member David Héyj has very well summarized, we have a bill that serves to fulfil our obligations arising from membership of the European Union and, on the other hand, the compulsory execution of the judgment given at the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this spirit, I ask the Parliament to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Hey, David, Adam's applauding.]]
u2021-04-27-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the European Citizens' Initiative Minority SafePack will be discussed. Submitted by the Committee on National Inclusion H/15586. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now or later. [[On the sign of Charles Panczél:]] Later, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we recall, with the decision of the European Commission on 14 January 2021, the European Union did not consider it necessary to establish a comprehensive regulation to protect national minorities, despite the fact that this initiative was supported by more than 1 million citizens, 1 123 422 European citizens. As 10 percent of the population in the European Union are members of an indigenous national community, we believe that their interests should be taken into account and that there is also a need to establish legal bases for national minority protection at EU level, which Member States would be obliged to incorporate into their national legal systems. In this context, we would like to emphasise once again the importance of standing up for foreign Hungarian communities and other indigenous national minorities in Europe, also through the adoption of a decision on the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative, since ensuring and enforcing the rights of these communities must be an integral part of democracy. In this spirit, I ask that you support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Hey, David, Adam's applauding.]]
u2021-04-27-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. I'm looking for a Bulgarian ethnic advocate for Varga Simeon with my eyes. I don't see him, so I can't give him the floor. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik.
u2021-04-27-64	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The general debate on this proposal took place on 7 April. With regard to the Minority SafePack, which, on the proposal of Zsolt Németh, it is perhaps right to call it a national minority protection agreement, I believe that there has been a very important and exemplary debate. By debate, I must mean that this is the formal term for talking about it here in this Parliament. I was pleased that there was full consistency between the speakers, while this consistency meant that various aspects had been highlighted. One of them, of course, is the right of national indigenous minorities to be guaranteed by the European Treaties, but it needs to be fought over and over again. One important aspect of this discussion was the contradiction in the way the European Commission generally deals with European citizens' initiatives and, in particular, with regard to national minorities, since, while the European Parliament stood up for the initiative in full width and even called on the European Commission to legislate properly, this was not done at all. It is therefore questionable whether the democratic opportunity of European citizens to participate in legislation, which is so celebrated in the Lisbon Treaty, really applies. There was also the point that we could not leave this, and we must stand by this initiative, especially given that there is another citizens' initiative, the Szekler National Council, which is literally a cohesion policy for equality of regions and the sustainability of regional cultures, we call it a citizens' initiative on national regions, and that we are also standing up now, it may make it more difficult for the other to reject it. Jobbik considered it important to take part in this debate, Brenner Koloman and I spoke, and now Ander Balázs will add to what we consider to be important in this matter. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-04-27-65	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2021-04-27-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the political meeting of the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin, Minority SafePack was on the agenda two weeks ago. I said the position of Jobbik as a national party there as a delegate of our party, but this is a topic, an area that we now and every time it is possible to talk about and add it, we have to present it, because if we look at the historical and demographic facts a little bit, then we see that the problem is terrible. If we look at the fact that at the time of the change of regime, according to census data, we had a little over 2 million 700,000 Hungarian brothers living in the separated areas, and we add that by now this number has melted to just 2 million, 10 percent of every decade disappears to the Hungarians in the highlands, Transcarpathia, Transylvania or the southern part of the country, then we have to say that there is nowhere to go further. Yes, that is why, among other things, it would be important to make this case successful, and Jobbik will give all the help, all the support, because I believe we have to admit that he was deeply right when he said that in the shadow of Trianon, we should forget all personal grievances, partying and provide a brotherhood to everyone who is Hungarian even if our views do not agree in many ways. [[13.20]] Indeed, this is what we are experiencing, in many cases, in many ways we do not agree here among the walls of this House, but I think this is an area, an issue, a truly national matter, in which there cannot be any conflict between parties and Members of Parliament. I was just referring to the demography here. If we look at the fact that, say, in 1941 88 percent of the population of treasured Cluj was Hungarian, which now melted to 15 percent, if we look at the fact that Košice, where the Hungarian majority was 75 percent still around 1910, is now only 2.6 percent dwarf with Hungarian minority, then we really need to see that there is no place to back off. What the European Commission has done in this matter is far more than outrageous. Instead of the people's Europe, the Europe of their backseat has triumphed. On several points, they have proved that what they speak so highly about is democracy, minority protection, civil rights, for some reason it does not matter. It is amazing that for the fifth time the citizens' initiative has been rejected, which has caused a wound on the part of civil self-organization that can seal the future of Europe, because if Europe's citizens are alienated from the spirit of Europeanism, if they are not taken seriously, then we cannot talk about the Europe of citizens, for which Jobbik is also struggling. If we add that the three-quarters of the European Parliament's decision to start legislation in this area has been ignored, then we can only say that it is outrageous and nonsense. If we look at the principles, the ideas that they are talking about, how the bureaucrats who are not elected by anyone are sunk to the bottom of the drawers, then we have to say that there is a huge problem. It is not by accident that the President of the FUEN, Mr Vincze Loránt of the European Parliament, who obtained the mandate in the colours of the RMDSZ, when he condemned this whole affair, this outrageous and truly scandalous attitude of the European Commission, we can fully agree with it. It is also important to see that this is not just a Hungarian matter. Mr. Secretary of State said here, and my fellow Member Balczó said earlier that 50 million European citizens are affected by this issue, one in ten Europeans is a member of some indigenous national minority. The European Commission, when it swept off this initiative by not having the power to intervene, and it is in fact only a matter of internal concern for European states, has been in conflict with itself, since we can see that it does take the right to interfere with the lives of European states in relation to immigrants or certain minorities with a particular sexual orientation. In this case, when it comes to indigenous nationalities, it does not consider this important. It's a terrible, huge contradiction that should be resolved in some way, namely, by failing to abide by this judgment. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We are well aware that much more should be done, since we are running out of time...Excuse me, Mr President, but let me refer to Miklós Esterházy, the 17th. The famous politician of the beginning of the 20th century, nádora, who said as the leading politician of Hungary, divided into three parts, that it is insane to do nothing if there is nothing we can do. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The president's ringing again.]] This step is one of these: we have to get away, we have to do it, because we run out, we get lost, and we don't want to wait for that. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-27-67	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. I give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon, spokesperson, who applied for a five-minute comment in addition to the time frame.
u2021-04-27-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is a committee of 10/2014 on certain house rules. OGY Decision 32. H/15586 on the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. At its meeting held on 13 April 2021, the Commission adopted a proposal for a decision establishing its position. I would like to thank President Károly Panczél for presenting the position of the Committee on National Inclusion at the meeting of our committee and thanking our committee for its support. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that on March 24, 2021, our committee will be 2/2018-2022. In its Communication from the Commission entitled "Minority SafePack', the Committee has already adopted its opinion on the European Citizens' Initiative. The rights of national and linguistic minorities are not always respected and not everywhere. In many cases, it is possible to put ethnic language and culture at risk, even though there is nothing else but the fact that these communities want the opportunity to live their lives in their own traditions. If we are to maintain a diverse and livable Europe, we must speak out in order to support these values. The initiative is based on and is currently underpinned by the fact that the number of citizens living in the European Union belonging to an indigenous national minority exceeds 50 million people. The legal protection of 50 million people's cultures and ethnic languages and the preservation of their traditions should be a welcome goal, since we find that some Member States support the language and culture of minorities, while others, even if unspoken, but by reducing their rights, seek to blend in as soon as possible. CHAPTER XXI In a united Europe of the 20th century, where almost 10 percent of the EU's population is represented by national minorities, it is still true that there are countries where national minorities are lucky and where people of nationality are less fortunate. As a member of nationalities, we are one of the lucky ones here in Hungary: we can express our opinion at Parliament's meeting, and we have a say in protecting and supporting nationality. But we know that this has not always been the case and what the future will bring in the lives of individual Member States, but we do not see it coming. That is why we must now stand firm to make certain areas of national, ethnic and linguistic minority protection part of European Union law. Minority SafePack is a rescue package for minorities, i.e. a European citizens' initiative aimed at making certain areas of national, ethnic and linguistic minority protection part of European Union law. The issue of the minority protection initiative was supported by national parliaments, including the Hungarian Parliament. The European Parliament held a debate on Minority SafePack in December 2020 and the overwhelming majority of MEPs voted in favour of strengthening cultural and linguistic diversity. Then, on 14 January 2021, the decision came as a shock to us: the European Commission decided to ignore the request of more than one million European citizens and the European Parliament's resolution and not to legislate to protect national minorities. The Commission considers and takes the view that existing rules are sufficient to enable Member States to support projects promoting the rights and culture of persons belonging to national minorities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a minority of minorities, we cannot and do not want to identify with the position of the European Commission. We are deeply disappointed and shocked by this decision and the justification for the decision. In our view, the European Commission's decision to ignore proposals from citizens by representing the will of EU citizens by the European Parliament, whose position was clear and forward-looking. [[13.30]] For us, it is very important that Parliament also stands up for all indigenous national minorities in Europe by adopting this proposal for a resolution. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary recommends the adoption of the H/15586 on the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. Proposal 1. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2021-04-27-69	Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Varga Simeon. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask the government representative if you'd like to comment now. [[Tamás Vargha: No.]] You've told me before, thank you. I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Károly Panczél, Mr President, to express his views on closing the debate.
u2021-04-27-70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, On behalf of the Committee on National Inclusion, I thank you for your support in several debates, whether at the committee meeting or here in plenary. This proposal for a resolution is about the Minority SafePack citizens' initiative, and, yes, as has already been said here today, it was the Hungarian Permanent Conference that said to give it a Hungarian name: a national minority protection initiative. We closed the detailed debate in the committee on 13 April, and we adopted the report; I must say that without any particular debate, since the committee sent 9 unanimous yeses to submit this resolution proposal to Parliament. And after no amendment had been tabled, we concluded this detailed debate with 9 consonant yeses. On 7 April, in the plenary debate at that time, all the speakers of the then present groups supported this initiative and the proposal for a decision. I would particularly like to thank the committee on nationality, because when they heard about this proposal for a resolution, the committee immediately joined this matter and gave their support to the national minority protection initiative. The minority committee also sees well what we are saying, that this is not a Hungarian issue, it is not just a Hungarian issue, but a European issue, it affects 50 million citizens in the European Union, the 50 million citizens of the European Union. Dear House, In conclusion, there is therefore a consensus behind the proposal for a decision. It is also my duty to thank those who launched this citizens' initiative nearly a decade ago, who submitted it. It is thanks to the FUEN, its then leadership and the present, the Federation Union of European Nationalities, and at the time the DAHR was also a presenter. Thank you for taking this case through. Thank you to the citizens who collected it, who were going, who were stalling, who were peddling, who encouraged me to sign it online, because we have the more than one million signatures that the Secretary of State spoke of on behalf of the government. So more than a quarter of the EU countries have signed more than one million signatures. So we can say that the citizens' initiative was successful and that failure and shame should be the European Commission's. As has been said here today, even the European Parliament has supported the principle by a three-quarters majority, the decision that the European Commission should be required to legislate and really address this matter. Yes, it happened that on 15 January this year the European Commission swept this off the table. This, on the one hand, really discredits the institutional system of the citizens' initiative, which they are so proud of and point back at in Europe that we can give European citizens the opportunity to intervene in EU legislation. This is always referred to, and the effective initiatives in place will be swept off the table, including this initiative on the protection of minorities. So shame belongs to the European Commission, and I think we can conclude that the European Commission has missed a historic opportunity, could have protected the indigenous national minorities in Europe, their culture, traditions, education system, media, and I would have a long list of, in general, language protection and their survival. In this situation, two ways are possible. A legal procedure has been launched, since the petitioners have turned to the court in Luxembourg asking for an annulment procedure against the decision of the European Commission. The other way in which we are now, and this is a political road, is a broad solidarity movement in addition to the Minority SafePack, since it was discussed in several places from the Dutch House of Commons to the Bundestag, the Government of the Åland Islands, the Danish, Valencia or Veneto Province in southern Europe, and a solidarity movement from the Szeklerland, which also joined the Szekler counties and cities of the Hungarian county. We must take advantage of this solidarity and take this initiative to the European level. Dear House, I think, if we are to be honest, we can say that, unfortunately, there is no rapid and spectacular success in national policy issues, in the protection of minorities, either in Europe. We must be prepared to continue to fight for a long time in these matters, and we must bring this to every forum possible. We are particularly fortunate to have an opportunity here, as Hungary is now running the Presidency of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee in Strasbourg as of May. At conferences, events, either in Budapest or in Strasbourg, it is very important that we bring this subject forward and voice our support. Of course, we need to trust that the majority nations will eventually realize that wisdom and see that the native nationalities living with them need to ensure that the homeland is at home, and that this can lead to European social peace in the future, and this social peace can bring about prosperity in Europe. So we have a duty to support this. Thank you very much for the support of those involved in the debate, the support of the minority committee, the government, and I sincerely hope that tomorrow we can support this proposal for a resolution by a very large majority. I secretly hope that, like the Bundestag, where there was full agreement, the Hungarian Parliament will support this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-27-71	I thank Károly Panczél, Chairman of the Committee on National Inclusion, for the final debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the Geneva Act on Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications of the Lisbon Agreement and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15698. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-27-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement on Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications, T/15698. Bill No. 1. [[13.40]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As has already been said in the general debate on the bill before us, a UN specialised institution, the World Intellectual Property Organisation, established in 2008 a working group to update the text of the Agreement on the Protection of Intellectual Property, concluded in Lisbon in 1958. The result of this work is the amendment adopted in Geneva in 2015, which is now being announced. The two main results of the revision are that it has renewed the system for the registration of geographical indications and that it has allowed intergovernmental organisations to accede to the agreement. The European Union has therefore already acceded to the Convention in the autumn of 2019. At the time of the submission of the bill, there was an error in the nomination of the annexes, which is addressed by the minor technical amendment put before us by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2021-04-27-73	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I would like to ask the author, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State... [[For signal:]] No, you'll want to comment later. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a sign, and therefore the debate is closed. [[For signal:]] And the author indicates that he has nothing to say, thank you very much; and David Héjj obviously told me everything. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 Annex XI on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/15702. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-27-74	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed Article XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications. T/1570. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 20 votes in favour, 1 against and 7 abstentions. Dear House, The bill before us was discussed by the Parliament together with the bill on the publication of the Geneva text of the Lisbon Agreement on designations of origin and geographical indications. Recognition of the mandatory scope of the Geneva text, in order to harmonise legislation, must necessarily entail the application of Article XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications. the amendment of the law. The law contains national rules on the protection of geographical indications, rules on the international registration of designations of origin and of designations of origin in the European Union. The purpose of this bill is to amend the law on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications in order to ensure that both the Geneva text and the 2019/787. Redirect the amendments necessary for the implementation of the relevant provisions of EU Regulation No 1. As regards the bill, the updating of the rules on the procedure of international notifications is a significant change in the scope of the proposal, in which the provisions of Article 17 of Regulation (EU) 2019/1753 apply. The provisions of the EU Regulation and its implementing acts shall also apply mutatis mutandis. In the future, the National Intellectual Property Office will only allow for the international notification of non-agricultural products, and protection will only exist in those countries which are parties to the Lisbon Agreement but not in the Geneva text. Dear Parliament, The proposal also makes the necessary amendments to the 2019/787. Even after the entry into force of the EU Regulation. Under the new Regulation, geographical indications for spirit drinks can only be protected by the Union. It should be pointed out that the proposal was discussed with social organisations and strategic partners such as the Hungarian Association for the Protection and Copyright of Industrial Law, the Hungarian Trademark Association, the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives and Producers or the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this amendment of the Trade Marks and Geographical Indications Protection Act is to comply with our legal harmonisation obligations arising from international law and our membership of the European Union. Therefore, in view of these, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2021-04-27-75	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. We now have the speeches from our representatives. [[No signal.]] [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Next would be the speeches by the representatives (No indication). in the time frame on the agenda, but I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. Thank you very much. (To be indicated:) The author indicates that he has nothing to add. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain copyright laws for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/15703. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, in the debate, Mr Dávid Héjj, rapporteur, presented the position of the Legislative Committee. Hey, David!
u2021-04-27-76	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain copyright laws for legal harmonisation purposes T/15703. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Commission published the Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe in 2015 to ensure that Europe's economy, industry and society can fully benefit from the new digital era. Among other things, the Strategy envisages the establishment of a modern and European copyright framework, with the aim of adopting two directives: SatCab II laying down rules on the exercise of copyright and copyright related rights applicable to certain online broadcasts by broadcasting organisations and the retransmission of television and radio programmes. Directive and Directive CDSM on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market. Dear House, The primary objective of this bill is therefore to transpose the provisions of these two directives into national law, which is due on 7 June 2021. With regard to the current domestic legislation, the copyright law and the law on the joint management of copyright and copyright rights already partially comply with the provisions of the Directives, but at some points it became necessary to supplement the legislation in order to properly transpose the directives. The secondary objective of the bill is to introduce amendments that are either indirectly linked to the transposition of directives or are based on practical experience in the application of copyright law, such as copying for private purposes and modernising the rules of writing. In order to comply with Directive CDSM, a general exception to text and data mining is introduced in the Copyright Act and limited to specific research sites and cultural heritage institutions. [[13.50]] A new chapter is added to the Copyright Act, in which the provisions of the CDSM Directive on non-commercial works are fully transposed. However, in order to strengthen the situation of authors and performers, the obligation to provide information to the contracting party in respect of contracts involving authors and performers, within which the author and the performer should receive at least annual comprehensive information on the use of the copyright relevant legal material covered by the licence or transfer, the revenue generated and the fees payable. Ladies and gentlemen, It is to be welcomed that 22 social organisations will be consulted on the bill in the course of direct social consultations in the legislative process. In conclusion, in line with dynamically changing digital techniques, while complying with our EU legal harmonisation obligations, it is appropriate to adopt a bill incorporating changes to the copyright legislation on the House's table. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-77	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. [[No one indicates his intention to comment.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] The author indicates that he does not wish to comment. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCI on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws follows. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the Act. Government referral T/15704. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to comment now or later. [[On Attila Philip's mark:]] Later. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. [[No one indicates his intention to comment.]] I do not see an application on the screen, so the debate is closed. And now, if Attila Philip wishes to speak to him, then he has the opportunity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. (In the notary seat Dr. Winner Vinnai) Replaced by László Földi.)
u2021-04-27-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like a sentence that this government proposal really complies with the Constitutional Court 21/2018. Decision No 1 and this offers the possibility of applying for a lump sum grant or, where appropriate, a state check. Our request is for this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-79	Thank you, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the presentation of the National Social Policy Institute of Slachta Margit and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. Presentation by Ungár Péter, LMP, Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP, Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, Selmeczi Gabriella, Fidesz, representatives H/14632. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-04-27-80	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 April 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/14632 on the National Social Policy Institute of Margit Slachta. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 31 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The National Social Policy Institute, established on 1 January 2021, acts as a background institution of the Ministry of Human Resources in the field of social, child welfare and child protection. The activities of the National Social Policy Institute cover support and service tasks arising from professional, training, decision preparation and implementation in the light of the needs and suggestions of state, ecclesiastical, civil and municipal institutions. The new organisation also considers it essential in its structure and tasks to provide a better response to changes. In this context, the operation, development and support of training systems will be addressed by updating the skills of workers in the context of demographic change of high importance in the social field, as well as the social and child protection areas, in line with changing economic and social circumstances, and by meeting the needs for their development. The proposal before us would add the name of the newly created National Social Policy Institute to the name of Margit Slachta. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, I believe that, with the support of the proposal, the Hungarian Parliament will be given the opportunity to recognise ex post the self-sacrifice, exemplary and humane work of the first Hungarian congresswoman, thus paying tribute to the memory of Margit Slachta. I therefore think that the proposal that has been tabled should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-81	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Ungár, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[For signal:]] Now. You have the floor, Congressman Peter Ungár.
u2021-04-27-82	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you to the political groupings and factions who support this proposal, and I am pleased that this will be adopted almost unanimously or possibly in a state of unanimity by the Parliament. I think this is a nice thing, and hopefully we will all continue to work in the spirit of Margit Slachta in the future. Thank you.
u2021-04-27-83	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[On Attila Philip's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-84	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We support the proposal on the part of the government, and, of course, on the basis of this decision and decision of the Parliament, we will make the name change, and I think that this is also an important moment in which we will be able to pay tribute to the church's social work. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-85	Thank you, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2021-04-27-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to thank you for this initiative and for everyone's support. I hope that the DK Members on the Legislative Committee will also support this proposal in the final vote. It is important that employees at the Social Policy Institute, the future Slachta Margit Institute, should also feel the responsibility of having the guidance of Margit Slachta in their professional work, their dedication, their spirituality, so that the Hungarian social institution network, social policy, should never lose sight of the goal of always looking at the person in need and in need of the support of the majority of society, and that man should be the focus. I would also like to thank the staff of the Institute and all workers in the social field for their work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-87	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask you on behalf of the government, if the Secretary of State wishes... [[Attila Philip says no.]] He doesn't want to. The author? [[Peter Ungár says no.]] He doesn't want to comment. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, The 2005 XCV on the use of medicinal products and other laws regulating the pharmaceutical market to list dangerous psychotropic substances on the drug list follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Government referral T/15707. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. I welcome Secretary Ildikó Horváth, who says no. Thank you. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. Now, the speeches will be made by your representatives, if someone on the screen signals this to me. [[No signal.]] I do not see a signal, so I will close the debate and ask the Secretary of State that she wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/15974. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-04-27-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The corona virus epidemic has been an unprecedented challenge for the countries of the world, Europe and thus Hungary, both from a health and economic point of view. There is no country that can exclude itself from the negative effects of the pandemic. The question is only the extent to which a country is able to dampen them and to what extent it is able to recover, even in the situation of the pandemic, in view of the possibility of renewing and strengthening certain economic sectors. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The main aim of the Hungarian government is to protect human life and health. In addition, it is our task to protect jobs and re-launch the economy in order to bring the Hungarian economy back to the most dynamically expanding countries in the Union. The economic re-launch action plan allows everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover. We want everyone who has lost their job to be able to get it back or get a new job. Our goal is that any entrepreneur who had to close his business can restart it and even develop it as far as possible. To this end, in 2021, the re-launching of the holding may start in addition to the control of the epidemic. This is the purpose of the proposal to amend the budget for 2021 before you. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the event of an emergency, significant decisions have been taken at the level of government decree in relation to the 2021 Budget Act to reduce the consequences of the epidemic, to protect jobs and to restart the economy. However, as soon as the emergency resolves, those provisions shall expire. In this way, the budgetary resources required for epidemiological and economic re-launch measures will be secured in the course of the 2021 Budget Act amendment, while the debt-to-GDP ratio will be reduced. In addition to the resources available in the 2021 Budget Act, the amendment provides additional resources to support families raising children, to estimate pensioners, to retain jobs and to create new jobs. Honourable Members, Let me first explain our real economic assumptions when presenting the bill before you. In Hungary, the negative effects of the pandemic temporarily halted the dynamic economic growth experienced in previous years. Thanks to the consistent economic policy of recent years, the Crown Virus epidemic hit a resilient, balanced economy in March 2020, so Hungary faced the challenges with strong fundamentals and sound public finances. (Dr. László Varga in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Adam Steinmetz.) Although, in the second quarter of 2020, the epidemic has reduced economic activity to an unprecedented extent, a gradual recovery from the bottom has been observed in most sectors in the remaining part of the year. A rapid correction took place in the third quarter and recovery continued in the fourth quarter, despite the re-introduction of measures limiting the spread of the epidemic. Strong fundamentals and comprehensive and effective crisis management have undermined the decline in GDP, thus the performance of the Hungarian economy has decreased by 5 percent throughout 2020, i.e. it has proved to be more resistant to the epidemic than the 6.2 percent average of EU countries. During the crisis caused by the pandemic, the employment situation in Hungary was also more favourable than the EU average. By the end of 2020, the number of people employed in the primary labour market amounted to 4 million 452,000, even over 26,000. Looking ahead, growth is based on two pillars. On the one hand, the exploitation of existing labour reserves will support further employment growth and, on the other hand, in the coming years, productivity-enhancing investments, including technological and green development, will become increasingly important. In addition, competitiveness has a key role to play in strengthening our country's medium- and long-term growth potential. Government measures will also make it possible to forecast a 4.3 percent increase in GDP in 2021. If I may, I would like to briefly mention the internal content of this economic growth. After the crisis caused by the Crown Virus, internal demand, consumption and investment contribute positively to economic growth. By mitigating the epidemiological restrictions, achieving adequate grafting, the re-opening of service sectors, labour market and consumption can also lead to rapid recovery. The purchasing power of households is also supported by broad-spectrum family protection measures. Overall, household consumption as a source of growth can increase by 3.5 percent this year. This process is reinforced by the fact that in the EU comparison, our country is characterised by a high saving rate of GDP and low household indebtedness, which, through consumption, constitute a significant growth reserve for the coming years beyond this year. The investment rate, which has risen to record height in recent years, as another source of growth can remain at a high level, reaching almost 28 per cent in 2021. I would like to point out that the investment rate in the countries where this indicator is above 25 per cent is considered to be high. We see that this is what Hungary has described in recent years, and, as I said, we are confident that, in addition to the crisis, the investment rate may be high this year as well. This forecasts a significant increase in production capacity, which will keep exports dynamic and increase Hungary's share of the world market. It supports the use of growth opportunities that Hungary's ability to attract capital has increased considerably over recent years. Restarting the economy, preserving success in export markets and creating new jobs are also supported by export support and investment promotion programmes. The investment activity of small and medium-sized enterprises is also supported by the accelerated allocation of EU funds for economic development, in addition to a low return environment and a favourable business climate. In the context of households' investments, the enlarged home-building programme will result in large-scale residential development. Gross fixed capital formation may increase by 4.2 percent in 2021. This year, exports of products and services can increase by 6.5 percent. At the same time as the recovery of domestic demand and increasing exports, the volume of imports may increase by 5.2 percent. [[14.10]] Thus, foreign trade can contribute 1.2 percentage points to GDP growth in 2021. The increase in consumer prices is expected to be higher in 2021 and 3.6 percent in 2021, in parallel with recovery. I note here that, in parallel, pensioners will receive an additional increase during the year, and, of course, in line with the laws, if the first eight-month inflation data would require further additional increases, the government will implement it, while at the same time trusting that it will be possible to pay the pension premium again in parallel with this increase. Dear Parliament, Allow me to briefly present this year's draft amending budget law, following our macroeconomic assumptions. During the period of the pandemic, as I said, the protection of health and the protection of lives are of paramount importance, and the necessary resources have been provided and will continue to be provided by the government this year. At the same time, as I mentioned, the re-launching of the economy is the determining character of the document before you. This year, the economic re-launch action plan spends a total of HUF 6172 billion and 12 percent of GDP on three main funding channels. With the first and largest HUF 3278 billion, national funds are available mainly to support families, create homes, and protect pensioners, this amounts to HUF 500 billion, for infrastructure development with more than HUF 820 billion, for the creation of new jobs, for the preservation of jobs and employment, for health wage increases with HUF 460 billion, for sports and culture with a value of HUF 120 billion, for the development of agriculture with an amount of nearly HUF 96 billion, and for the development of tourism with an amount of HUF 90 billion. Within the economic re-launch action plan, as a second framework, more than HUF 2515 billion of EU funds are available to re-launch the economy, protect families and jobs, and mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus pandemic. This framework includes the planned use of the EU funds available to Hungary under the agreement of the Heads of State or Government of the EU Member States. These new resources, which are also included in the draft amending budget law, can make a significant contribution to the re-growth of the economy. Finally, as a third framework, the government leaves nearly 380 billion forints in Hungarian families and businesses in addition to the existing, living benefits, thus helping the economy to recover as soon as possible. Among the tax reductions that help re-launch the economy can be highlighted is the VAT and tax exemption for home creation, which is HUF 135 billion, the reduction of the small company tax and the tax exemption of the specific tax on small taxpayers, which is more than HUF 20 billion, and the local industrialisation tax reductions introduced to help small and medium-sized enterprises, which leave HUF 84 billion in businesses. At the latter point, allow me also to report that the bill before you contains full compensation for the loss of revenue of the municipalities of less than 25,000 inhabitants. Ladies and Gentlemen, On 9 April 2021, the Government sent to the Fiscal Council a draft amending the central budget of Hungary for 2021. Please allow me first to thank the members of the Council for their work in monitoring and for their proposals to the Government. In its opinion, the Council concluded that it had not experienced any objectionable provisions in the draft amending budget law for 2021 which would justify its disagreement with the amendment. The Council concluded that the deficit target for 2021 would rise to 7.5 per cent of GDP, in line with the so-called EDP report of 1 April sent to the bodies of the European Union. The Council explained that the legislative amendment was required by changes in the economic circumstances of the coronal virus epidemic, new measures to support the health and economy that have been taken in the meantime, and changes in the budgetary framework for EU funds. The Council stated that the draft law amending 2021 will be prepared in line with economic growth, as provided for in the Fundamental Law, which will allow the debt-to-GDP ratio to decrease again in 2021 from 80,4 per cent at the end of 2020 to 79,9 per cent. Dear House, Honourable Members, The Council concluded that the changes in revenue and expenditure presented in the draft increase the cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem in 2021 to HUF 2288 billion. However, this amount is below the deficit target under the EU methodology of 7.5 per cent. In its opinion, the Council stated that the expected cash flow deficit, consistent with a 7.5% EU methodological deficit, was HUF 3990 billion. This is, by the way, in line with the government documents previously published. The Council therefore considered it justified that the budget deficit, i.e. HUF 3990 billion, should be recorded in the draft budget law. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, on the basis of a proposal from the Council, the general justification for the draft legislative amendment submitted is a detailed description of the expected annual cash flow deficit and the EU methodology. I also think it is important to highlight a question that has a methodological effect, but which is of substance. The fiscal law can be amended as a standard only by compliance with specific rules. Such an important rule is that expenditure appropriations which the government will amend or modify during the year under the Public Finance Act, such as the financing of defence-related expenditure, should not be passed through the law, and should not be redefined as a parliamentary amendment on the grounds of the avoidance of double financing. Any change to the expected deficit for this reason should not be included in the amendment of the Budget Act. Thus, the lack of a central subsystem was defined by the government at HUF 2288 billion. At the same time, the government thought and the request of the Fiscal Council confirmed that it was also necessary to inform the Parliament that it expected a deficit of HUF 3990 billion in cash and HUF 3860 billion in total, according to the EU methodology, corresponding to 7.5 percent of GDP. It is therefore appropriate, at the same time, to have a cash-flow deficit in line with the principles of legislation in the Finance Act and a deficit according to the government's target EU methodology for the year as a whole. The numerical and content relationship between the two indicators is set out in detail in the general justification. In addition to the above, the Council recommended presenting the consistency of the single treasury account, the cash flow deficit and the debt developments, and this information should be part of the bill before Parliament. The general justification of the bill is therefore presented in a separate table for the nominal value of the central government debt managed by the Government Debt Management Centre and other liabilities and assets to be consolidated on the development of government debt at the end of 2020 and at the end of 2020. I may have made a long presentation of the opinion of the Fiscal Council and of the government's reaction, but I think it is important that the Honourable Parliament sees the measures that the Government has implemented in its own hands, which are the proposals that are in the legislative proposals before you, and the measures to be taken in the sphere of government or parliamentary power in general, which, I stress, in my opinion, reduce the debt ratio, compared to most countries in Europe, by the end of this year, compared to last year's level. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, Based on the very good results of the Hungarian economy over the past ten years and the success of the government's efforts to tackle the crisis, it is rightly expected that economic growth in Hungary will be restored faster than in other countries concerned. In addition, financial stability and responsible budgetary management are factors that are necessary for Hungary's development and independence in all situations. We'll keep these. With the adoption of the proposal to amend the budget law of 2021, we can continue to support the prevention of epidemics, the protection of jobs, and the re-launching and re-establishing of the economy to the level before the epidemic. These principles are also reflected in the language of numbers in the amendment of the budget and in the justification of the bill. I therefore ask you to discuss and subsequently adopt the bill amending the budget law for 2021. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-27-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Lajos Szűcs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-90	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The coronal virus epidemic affects all of our lives. We did not think that we had to learn to adapt continuously to this new challenge for a year. On the one hand, it is necessary to stand up to saving human lives and, on the other hand, to continuously reduce the economic damage that occurs and to plan to restart the economy. In addition, one of Hungary's largest logistics operations, the fastest possible delivery of vaccinations, must be carried out, as this is the only solution for the current epidemic: the vaccine; what we tell everyone from here to register and get vaccinated as soon as possible. In order to effectively carry out the very diverse tasks mentioned above, the government has asked Parliament to extend the emergency situation further. It would have been much harder to defend ourselves against the Crown Virus if the government had not been able to make quick and flexible decisions with government regulations. The current amendment to the budget law before us aims precisely to incorporate the regulations that the government intends to maintain in the recent period into the Finance Act, since, with the end of the emergency, these regulations would be repealed. The budget for 2021 was still projected to increase by 4.8 percent, but this year, according to the government's calculations, it will be lower, but not by much, 4.3 percent. Unfortunately, due to the 5 per cent decline in 2020, the two years will be reduced overall, but the government's clear aim is to re-launch the economy as soon as possible with both the current budget change and the 2022 budget that will be submitted in a few weeks' time. To this end, a HUF 6000 billion fund of approximately 12 per cent of the total national product was created in the 2021 budget. In next year's budget, this amount is expected to rise to HUF 7000 billion, which, we believe, will definitely be important for the reboot. For 2021, a deficit target of 7.5 per cent in proportion to the total national product, according to the EU methodology, could be forecasted. This amendment includes changes to this new deficit payment balance by taking into account changes in the government's interim appropriations made under its own powers. In addition to the modified deficit target, due to the expected growth of the Hungarian economy, the debt-to-GDP ratio could decrease again in 2021 and reach a level below 80 per cent. The bill also sets out this new debt reduction target. It is a pleasure that, unlike left-wing governments, crisis management today is not about withdrawal, but about subsidies. We can say that we are not only talking about maintaining subsidies, but also about increasing and increasing them. I would like to highlight some examples of important measures taken by the Government since the adoption of the budget for 2021 last summer, but at the same time this year, and these amendments must now be implemented. The family support program is important. It is therefore gratifying that, from 1 July 2021, the amount of the baby care fee will increase from 70 per cent of gross income to 100 per cent. Only personal income tax is deducted from the amount of the family, no social security contributions are payable from the family. In 2021, the retirement of the 13th month pension started, which will continue next year. If you'll allow me, because the records of history and the Hungarian Parliament preserve a lot of things, so a little bit of a complex, because it happened exactly 12 years ago, it was almost exactly on the day, April 28, 2009; I quote the words of a short filmmaker, Lajos Korózs, who said in relation to the 13th month's benefit, which was, in fact, distracted! - : A single penny pension will not be taken from anyone by these measures. We didn't tell anyone to pay back 10 percent of their pension. There is no such proposal, there is no proposal that there will be no 12th month pension, but we will not be able to finance the additional benefits in the changed financial situation. That's what I'm talking about. The government had to take swift action. You know what I'm They didn't take the 13th month pension, they just didn't give it to me. In order to re-establish the economy, housing subsidies have been further extended since 2021. The non-refundable, maximum HUF 3 million, home renovation support is intended for families with at least one child or foster family, or divorced or separated parents who already have their own home, who want to continue living in it, and I would like to modernise this existing home. The government also makes home renovation loans available to those who do not yet have the power to apply for home renovation aid. If those concerned finance renovation costs through loans, they will not fall short of home renovation aid. In my view, these refurbishing programmes not only stimulate the economy but also whiten it, since every work carried out must be submitted an invoice to the Treasury. The village CSOK is very popular among the inhabitants of the small settlements, so the government, by sensing the needs, has expanded the range of settlements where this form of support can be used. Additional discount is that family founders do not have to pay the 4 per cent levy from January 2021. The year 2021 has also brought significant results in health wage developments, as a multi-annual wage development programme has been launched by doctors working in primary, outpatient and inpatient care. Doctors will receive a significant increase in wages in a total of three steps, so that payments will increase more than ever in three years from 2021 onwards. In addition to specialists, doctors working in primary care can expect an increase in their income. In addition to doctors, there is also a salary increase programme for health professionals, which will take place in January 2022. [[14.30]] A few words about EU funds. Last December, the Heads of State and Government of the Member States of the European Union agreed on the framework for the EU budget between 2021 and 27. According to this, Hungary is entitled to a higher amount of EU funding compared to previous conditions, which is accompanied by an increasing national own contribution, i.e. the EU agreement alone would require the current amendment of the budget law 2021. In addition, it is important to mention the resources offered by the so-called Restoration Fund, the total amount of which is HUF 5900 billion, part of which is non-refundable and the other part is a loan that will have to be repaid. These were the measures I wanted to address. And a little more reflection, for whoever remembers it is important to remember what the left-wing members said about crisis management some 12 to 13 years ago. The most beautiful perhaps is János Kóka 2009. CHAPTER VI The opening speech of the 9th of the month, in which he says that the distribution of the past decade has consumed our reserves and we have been indebted, there is no way to allow the budget deficit to rise by losing revenue. The only way to reduce the tax burden responsibly and significantly is to pay those who have not done so before. He also talked about some of the measures. In relation to property tax, the SZDSZ makes the following basic proposals:. We recommend extending the property tax to all properties, including property owned by companies, by removing parallel burdens. And yet another interesting sentence:. The additional revenue may serve to keep the key low, to keep local business taxes on a continuous basis, and to further reduce the taxes on work. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These were the measures, perhaps we remember them, which almost put the Hungarian economy in a serious spiral of debt and in a situation after which we had to take action. Fortunately, this is not the case now, but rather the bill before us tries to keep the economic results obtained and restore the economy to its well-run path by restarting it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to note that the Budget Council has carried out its task of expressing its opinion on the amendment of the Budget Act. Thank you, too, for the opinion of the Fiscal Council, in which it confirms the sentences that the Secretary of State has also said, namely that both the reduction of the deficit target and the amendment of the budget can be maintained, and it is absolutely important for Hungary to be able to start again. I believe that the bill before us will help the Hungarian economy in all respects, and hopefully the above amendments will help us to restart it as soon as possible. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the motion and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-92	Mr President, Dear House, It is always strange for me when a government tries to explain its certificate and now my fellow Member Szűcs has done this by pointing back 10-12-14 years. If I'm not a fan of economic philosophy before 2010, I'm not a fan of that era or of its economic achievements, but I already have strange feelings when someone tries to prove to me that he's the bull of the village, and in the meantime he tells me that those who used to be are not the bulls of the village, because he's the bull of the village. So when someone points back 10 to 12 to 14 years ago and still tries to measure himself, while the world obviously, spectacularly ran past you, I tell you once again that it makes me feel weird. But this speech is not about my spiritual life, it is about the problems and everyday problems of Hungarian citizens, Hungarian taxpayers, and the fact is that the government's failed, misguided economic policy is causing profound changes in the fate of those affected not exactly positive. [[Turning to pro-government representatives:]] My fellow Member may laugh at this, but the fact is that you do not care about the Hungarian reality, and often you do not see it, and often you do not understand it. I'll give you an example of this... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Help me! Help me!]] I will help you, yes, and I will help you, and I will make it less fun, because you are institutionally robbing or contributing to this. Stand up, because you will have a speech and answer me, please, in the middle of an epidemiological emergency, on what grounds do you allow minimum pensions, minimum wage bans to take place at a level of 33 per cent and 50 per cent respectively. If this House has worked out a credit moratorium, Jobbik has put the idea on the table, you have done it a little differently, with small prints and traps, not exactly as we wanted, but at least there is a credit moratorium, we appreciate that, if that's the case, then in the case of the most difficult situations, why are there executive bans, my fellow Member? Explain. You're a lead speaker too, stand up and tell me. The situation from a budgetary approach is that instead of the 2.9 per cent initially entered, calculated by the Ministry of Finance, we have to expect a deficit of 7.5 per cent. The government debt is around 2010, the deficit is falling back to 2006 if we count in proportion to GDP. This is the certificate that we must now consider here when we take this amendment into account. With the Secretary of State, whom I deeply respect and appreciate for his professional skills, we had an argument that it was premature to submit a budget at the time that you have changed or not. This debate, I feel, has been decided by numbers. I think I've been justified by time, unfortunately, and I wish I hadn't. the fact that when you put down the budget plan, the facts and processes that now affect the lives of Hungarian people in such a way were not yet visible. Public debt is another subject of debate, since in the fact that we have fallen back to the level before 2010, obviously there is a crisis I would add, there was a crisis ahead of it in the data at the time, and I could have given you ideas on how to do better, but the thing is that you are doing this crisis very badly now. Only on a microscopic level, the wage losses were recorded in 5 percent of the Hungarian jobs, i.e. 5 percent of the Hungarian jobs, i.e. not one or two ten thousand forints, but one that affects the life of the family in a noticeable way; this ratio is 20 percent, 25 percent, 15 percent, 5 percent in Hungary, and 5 percent in Germany. And what we see is that the problem of flawed planning also needs to be addressed, which is one of the reasons for the proposal before us. The second is that the Heads of State and Government of the Member States of the European Union have agreed on the EU's budget between 2021 and 27, where Hungary can hold entitlement to a higher EU grant volume, so obviously our expenditure and payment of membership fees will be higher. Let us not forget that the subsidies are not such divine donations, but Hungary owes very serious counter-party services, of which only a small part of the membership fee was, in essence, the opening up of our markets. I would add in parentheses that the well-trained East-Central European workforce is obviously also highly welcome in Western Europe, and against this exhausting effect, Hungary's Government has not given rise to any more historical betrayal. And what we see is that we need to adapt the budget to the change in EU funding, but here we need to give you a convergence programme, and you need to put what I want to spend on the table, and at the same time, the Commission has to approve it, so it doesn't hurt to at least meet the reality that you are putting on the table. The amendment that lies before us is evidence of the fact that the Hungarian budget has not yet met the reality; I would like to say once again that I would like to adapt to it. And, well, it's listed among the expenditure items related to the reboot, let's say, the 13th quarter-month pension, which I'm not, by the way, the counternutrient, so obviously we'll give you what's coming, of course, but it's relatively limited in connection with the reboot. [[14.40]] Obviously, any money given can be spent on the market, which has some multiplier effect, but by that means, Mr. Secretary, why don't you touch, say, the family allowance? They could double that. We, the right-handers, would like to see this on a family card, which will only buy basic food and child-rearing articles. This would be a noticeable intervention in a positive direction in the lives of families. What we see is that it was still important to include the institution called the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, with a row of blanks, so they would like to have the opposition sign a blank cheque, and they would like to display the necessary resources after the adoption of the law on this. At the same time, what does this authority do? In addition to the partial privateisation of two entire industries, the supervision of the executives will be outsourced from the control of the Hungarian Parliament and, by the way, from the control of the current government to a body managed by a man appointed by you. So far, we've seen that so far, I've only been assisted by a quote for the evictions, which have contributed to the removal of over 18,000 people from their homes without placement. After that, if you want to oversee this process, then I'm not necessarily gonna calm down. And I also see that it raises questions about the issue of executives, which has already been mentioned and which my fellow Member from Harghita has to answer, that they have allowed the most difficult Hungarian citizens, our countrymen, to be pulled down on the basis of often dubious demands, and that you will then want to supervise this whole activity. How? In what direction? So far, I've been assisted with the extraction, so I'd like to control it from here on out? This raises some pretty amazing questions. We also see that the economic re-launch fund can gain even more weight, as one of the most important moves of the government in this proposal is to put aside some HUF 1500 billion of bianco cash, which it believes will be possible to decide in its own power, but it will be clear that opposition votes will be asked to settle an undescribed thousand billion-dollar spending. And obviously, you know that the opposition will not support this. We're throwing hundreds or thousands of billions here, but let's talk about volume. Perhaps few people in Hungary know that the IMF loan, which, fortunately, we outgrew and repaid, was estimated at around HUF 3500 billion at its peak. That's pretty much the amount of debt in the record years. The fact is that the Orbán government has reached the volume of the IMF loan in four items when people are under pressure. Let's put it together, Mr. Secretary. The 1,000 billion-dollar Paks II Russian loan; the almost similar scale of Budapest-Belgrade insane investment, not to be recovered in two hundred years; and with goodwill more than 450 billion, I speak only about the loan part of the Chinese university investment, plus what you put in the budget and buy land, and the rest; and if we add what you have voted for today, the volume of the funds saved to the foundations will come out, Mr Secretary of State, the magnitude of the IMF loan. Not only did you arrange this by borrowing money, but it also charged the Hungarian people's wallets, because the taxpayers pay back these items, and your four-in-hand will also charge the Hungarian people's wallets of the same magnitude. Of course, inflation in terms of the years that have passed, I am open to such a professional discourse, but I fear that you will come out of this calculation very, very badly. This proves that the purely neoliberal economic policy they are pursuing, along with a hard-core, cruel social policy, with Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit system, the VAT burden on Europe's record for the population, outlines an economy with colonial status. Therefore, there is no place for combative national rhetoric in your case unless you forget to tell us that you do not want to represent the interests of the Hungarian nation, but rather, say, the large capital of China. This could be an acceptable explanation for you; I hope not. But the fact is that what you are doing on an economic policy basis is not the image of a patriot economic policy, it is not the image of a sovereign nation state giving itself to itself, but rather the impression of an economic philosophy that is perfectly invading the multinationals, where large companies are rewarded with a mass of non-refundable subsidies that carry out several of the subsidies untaxed out of the country, and Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises are thus well rewarded with preferential loans in the middle of the crisis period if the intermediary bank contributes to this. Let us look at the plans that have been outlined in addition to the modified deficit target and look at their effectiveness so far. I would like to focus mainly on the first three points, namely the fact that we have the facts and figures here, on the basis of which a debate can stay close to the medre of professionalism, because obviously each page will do its own political statements in such a discussion. Let's examine the part of family policy and demography. Beyond the catastrophic change in demographic indicators, not only in the last ten years, but in the last thirty to forty years! We see that this government is talking about a trend shift. Not my fellow Member Nacsa, he was correct on this issue, he said here in Parliament that there was no demographic trend, although he also added that he saw encouraging signs. Unfortunately, we can argue over encouraging signs if we can't. Because last year, we were reduced by the number of inhabitants of Nagykanizsa; when the Minister conducted a success propaganda, only in December Hungary lost a population the size of Siklós, unfortunately, and we see that Hungary will be a country of around 6.5 million in a few decades from now. And I'm not the only one saying that, and the research workshop of the Hungarian National Bank confirms that. However, if we look at what is on the other side of the system of family tax incentives that I otherwise support, then we see that the highest tax content in child-rearing articles is in Europe. How do you expect a trend turn when you have 27 percent VAT on child rearing articles? This problem can also be identified with regard to basic foods. On a cosmetic basis, the VAT on one or two types of food has been reduced in a manner that affects 6-8 percent of the consumer basket first and then a little more widely, but unfortunately there has not been a price decrease, because there is a lack of a monitoring system and a lack of knowledge of the market. It seems that the price of basic foods is constantly passing away. The third item is the family allowance mentioned, which, in our view, should be doubled on a family card. This will only partially compensate for the inflection that has occurred in the last ten years. But if we add these negative effects to your account, unfortunately, there's a bigger expenditure side than the family tax relief paid back on the revenue side. Overall, in 11 years, it has allowed families to become more incriminated by this government than it has supported them. And if, Mr. Secretary of State, we add the criminal tax effect of the weak forint of more than 1000 billion per year, which Hungarian families will pay when buying all products with import or import implications, then unfortunately it is not exaggerating to say that they have not put families in an easier position than before. With regard to pensions and pension-like benefits, we have already said how much they can be classified in the re-launch register. I feel a little like when the government talks about family support, but the pension amount of the 40, which is more than 200 billion, is included in the family support. We don't want this amount to be taken away, but it doesn't belong there, don't put it on the company and don't advertise yourself with something that might have nothing to do with family support, or it can only have a lot of circumstantial implications. Pensions have risen by 3 percent. Due to the also poorly estimated inflation, they are now forced to give back the part of the pensioner's money that you have used so far, and now they are getting their money back, but that is certainly not a raise. And with an average pension increase of 3 percent, we can say that the increase in the price of vegetables and fruit was about 10 percent. One data on housing subsidies should be sufficient: based on the number of newly built apartments, the total Hungarian housing stock can be replaced every 248 years based on current data. This is the government's run-up phase. If you look at how many newly built apartments there are and how long it takes to replace the housing stock, it comes out that a building in Békásmegyer will be replaced with a new building in over 200 years. We do not dare to think about what this means for typical Hungarian people's life situations. For these reasons, because of the above, we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-04-27-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I do not undertake the task of fulfilling the requirement of the lead speech of Jobbik's representative to talk about what he would like me to say. He specifically came to me in connection with the enforcement procedures. I note that he has often spoken about the contradiction of enforcement procedures, and I share his thoughts, not only in emergencies, but also in other cases. [[14.50]] That is why I am pleased that the government is finally setting up a regulatory authority that can also be somewhat in charge of enforcement procedures, because there is something to be done in this area, and, I say, completely independent of the emergency. Returning to amending the budget: it is not a typical act that we are living now, because the Orbán governments have made us accustomed to designing a budget, those budgets are almost always fulfilled in terms of their main figures, and then in a year's time we will accept a closing account, and we will make small corrections, if justified, after a year, because we have already seen the real processes. The Orbán governments were characterised by this, this predictable fiscal policy. It may be bad for you if we point back to the period of socialist governments, but since we are politicians and we are debating these issues, and if we do not want to be lost in the details, we must do so. If the Orbán governments have always had a tangible, very strict fiscal policy, I have repeatedly said here in Parliament, that economic policy and fiscal policy have always created the basis for the social success of the Orbán governments, because if this is not put in place, then we can have great visions, then there will never be anything, what has always been typical of socialist governments as long as they were in government? They planned a budget, and they were never able to deliver any major number. But it's not because, and that's my belief, because the Ministry apparatus at the time couldn't have planned better, accurately shot the numbers, the apparatus was still able to do this, obviously the finance minister's administration wouldn't be replaced just because there was a change of government, because the politicians, the government, never took their own budget seriously. He built on air castles, overturned the budget, and they wanted to realize certain visions, and then life came back, and the budget and the economy's step-up prevented you from fulfilling, if you will, philosophical expectations. The electorate sensed it perfectly, and so he replaced you. Yet now we have such a situation when we have to change the budget. But we are not amending the budget because, when this budget was adopted, we had a flawed plan, but because we had a pandemic that was very difficult to measure. This is one of the reasons: the macroeconomic environment on which we have built is changing and, therefore, it is justified to correct the budget in itself. The other thing is that the emergency has given the government the opportunity to govern against the law by means of a decree. The majority of the government, there were times when the opposition gave us the opportunity, and later only the majority of the government. I think that this was an inevitable step, because if we had not created this opportunity, then the executive apparatus would not have been able to respond immediately to the challenges of the crisis. But there is a consequence of this now that if we want the provisions created by the government to live on, we need to regulate this by law after a while, and we are now attempting to do so here in the budgetary law. This is the second reason why this draft had to come before us. The third brings me up to date with the changes to the European Union. Others are the numbers, others the resources, the sums that we have from the European Union compared to what we had hoped for when planning the budget. This is also the reason why these other figures and larger figures should be passed through the budget. Taking into account the effects of the changed macroeconomic environment, this can be described by a few key indicators. The 2020 budget year was very specific, in the second quarter of 2020 when we faced the health epidemic, with this global epidemic, not knowing that we would be more optimistic than we are today, it is true that there was a brutal downturn in the world, but by the end of 2020, thanks to God, the economy was more or less restored. Then we naively thought that we were over everything, and then we had the third wave on our hands, and now we're hoping that if many of us are vaccinated, if most of the country gets vaccinated, then maybe we can avoid another wave of the pandemic. So the Hungarian economy is also in a situation where it can breathe again, when an opening occurs, a reboot, right, after the first wave, the economy is about to take its form and correct many numbers. In 2020 we calculated that the decline would be 3 percent, which was a 5% success. In this respect, our expectations have not been met, but no one has been able to calculate this brutal effect of the epidemic. For the record, with regard to the 5% decrease, there is a survey: how much is the average of the European Union? If I measure this decline to the average of the European Union, then I say thank God, it is less than us, because in the European Union, this decline was 6.2 percent. We calculated that in 2021 there could be a 4.8 percent increase, seeing the numbers, and seeing the processes, the government is now only 4.3 percent willing to estimate this. With regard to the deficit, which has been mentioned here several times, let me say to you, this has always been a predictable part of our fiscal policy, as a pre-crisis period, we have always kept the expected deficit target of the European Union, we have always planned for 3 percent of what we have planned, and we have always kept it, unlike you, for whom the deficit has always been increased during the period of socialist governance, and therefore, obviously, the other budget figures have not stopped at the planned level. What we see here in this material is that we have to calculate a 7.5% deficit in proportion to GDP. The inflation we are talking about here: we were hoping for 3 percent in the planning process, and today we have to say that this is going to be 3.6 percent. And again, it's not that we were misinterpreting things at the time, according to our knowledge at the time, it seemed realistic, today we know that correction must be made on this number, and if correction is to be made, it is the right thing for the government to do, to pay that 6 percent back to pensioners when we created the legal conditions for this. This is obviously going to happen in the middle of the year. I could also talk about the development of employment. We were proud of the good employment indicators we had before the crisis. The crisis has obviously eliminated jobs. Our goal has always been to immediately rebuild jobs, as the Prime Minister has often said, to create at least as many jobs as the pandemic has taken away from us. And we saw that the correction took place here at the end of 2020 and that 26 thousand more jobs were created than we had before the crisis. We often get the accusation from you that we are dealing with the crisis in such a way that we really do not see the interests of the people. I don't accept this statement, just because, say, the better-speaker finds a movement he says, "Well, why didn't you touch this, say, family allowance, why didn't you raise it?" We can always do a number war like this: the government is doing something, but the opposition representative can always give us a bigger number. This is not a very high-quality game, but of course this is part of the parliamentary genre. But there's no way to prove that the government didn't pay attention to the low-level and the interests of the people. And if we have to touch this budget, because, after the macro-economic figures, I said that the government has taken measures, and that the transfer of these measures, the continuation and transfer of government regulation measures are taking place here in the budget, the family support system and all other survivors of the 2020 budget are already appearing in this budget. [[15.00]] If I were to take up your time, I would have a long list of the items that the government is trying to support every member of the family in crisis and without crisis. Some of the items are obviously related to family support. What we place a great deal of emphasis on is the support of home creation in every way. This affects young families, affects the social groups that live in the countryside, affects the inhabitants of small villages when we encourage housing constructions there through the village CSOK. It affects people who have always been a bit of a loser of fiscal redistribution, because I think that the big city world has always been the winner of it and not the small town world. We have been trying to think differently for some time now, and this is also reflected in this budget amendment in terms of numbers. Of course, it is also possible to bring here what Mr Z. Karpat mentioned, the restoration of pensions, the restoration of the 13th month's pension. We consider our grandparents or parents as part of the family, and the younger ones obviously approach this issue differently. When we rebuild what you have taken, we think it is a kind of family support, because we also support the oldest members of the family, our parents or our grandparents by giving them income, extra income, by reconstructing the 13th month's pension with small steps. I am not boring you by listing every item in front of me, but I am saying that the government has taken a lot of measures in the context of crisis management that put families in a better position through direct subsidies, such as the 13th month's pension, through the thinking of economic policy housing, through the credit moratorium, through the waiver of municipal taxes. The measure is contradictory, I accept that, because if we say we don't have to pay business taxes tomorrow, I will put small companies in a position. Obviously, it's a loss of income on the council side, I'll admit that. Therefore, at the last moment, this last budget year, the government decided to return this municipal tax to the municipalities in the case of small settlements with a population of less than 25 thousand. So there's a revenue surplus for companies, small companies that don't pay business tax, get air, and municipalities get this money from the budget. In the case of the big guys, I know we didn't make the decision, but I think the big guys can handle it. Of course, the least of the greats are the ones closest to me, my county seat, my big city is still in a difficult situation. I have just seen a statement in which the Secretary of State has shown to the members of the Committee on Budgets how much liquid money the local authorities currently have. I've seen the first hundred, and I've been looking for Pécs, which is the fifth largest city in the country, but it's not in the first hundred in this regard, in terms of indicators. So there is a local government that is very seriously affected, but overall, I think that the idea that the government, with the support of their various developments, will help these larger self-governments is perhaps a viable technique and in a crisis situation that can be expected. I say to my colleague from Baranya that two other cities are involved, so Mohács is in the first hundred, and what surprised me is Komló, but unfortunately, Pécs is not in the city's budget positions. Some thoughts about European Union funds, because of the surplus... Do I have 15 minutes? [[Intercoms, among them: Yes! The president's gonna turn off his mic.]] A thought, then. Therefore, this surplus also has to be considered. Did you stop it, Mr. President? [[The president's gonna turn the congressman's mic back on.]] Due to this surplus, because of the additional resources, it is also obvious that budgetary corrections should be made. If you've given me a thought, I'll give you a renegade thought that...
u2021-04-27-95	But don't allow yourself another one, Congressman. [[Defiance.]]
u2021-04-27-96	Even though opposition representatives would have liked it, they would have liked to have argued with it. But I'm sorry, I thought I could talk for 30 minutes. My apologies to the President and my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-27-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. There is no problem, because you need to press the button for the next speech, and everything you have in you and you still want to say can be made available to the plenum. But now, in the main speaker group, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP, Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-98	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would immediately suggest to Congressman Harghitai that you, as a government representative from Baranya County, lobby for your own settlement and county. Here sits Tamás Mellar, he will be a sure partner in getting more support from Pécs. The Secretary of State is sitting here, and he can make a promise, and even my fellow Member László Szakács is here, who is also from Baranya County, so you will be supported by the opposition. In fact, I was born in Pécs, so you can even have my support. [[Dr. János Hargitai sits next to Péter Benő Banai.]] I see Congressman Harghitai sat down with the Secretary of State. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] I trust you'll discuss the extra support from Pécs. I'd like to stop for a while, because I'd like to wait and see what the outcome of this negotiation is. Will there be money, Mr. Secretary? What does the congressman say? [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Where are we, Congressman Harghitai? [[Dr. János Harghitai: I'll wait for you to finish!]] Yeah, so now I'm gonna say good. Only then will you inform us how this Pécs lobby has succeeded for additional resources, and then my fellow Member Mellar will be able to inform the excellent mayor of Pécs about the success we have today in the budgetary debate. The other thing that surprised me was Mr Harghitai's words that he could not lobby for more money, but we will soon find out that he was talking about the fact that when the budget was badly planned, they did the right thing when they had to change it, because the circumstances changed, they did the right thing. So the rule is, you always do the right thing. So the point is, when there's a Fidesz government, you're always doing the right thing, and the bigger problem is what happened ten years ago. True, if the macroeconomic environment changes then because of a crisis, it is the government's fault that if the macroeconomic environment changes now, it is the government's wisdom to adapt to the changed macroeconomic environment. We understand this, so, in this respect, fifteen minutes was also long for the next period. We hope that we will not be listening to this in 2021, what was fourteen and fifteen years ago, because we should focus on what is a problem in this current amendment and what is perhaps a little bit more to be dealt with by the government. I've grouped my thoughts around two corners. One is what worries us, so what worries us when we look at this budget. I've scored five points on this one. Some things have already been discussed, but it may be worth summing up once in a while. One of the things that is worth highlighting is the enormous rise in the deficit, the budget deficit. You were just talking about how tight, disciplined budget policies have been going on. We now see that the deficit-to-GDP target is rising from 2.9 percent to 7.5 percent. It's hard to say if it was a mistake, or if you're looking at it wrong, you've put the decimal point in the wrong place. So it is effective in a very significant, more than double increase in deficit. So this will certainly require care to be taken with caution and a sign in the table that this is a cause for concern. The other one, which Mr Harghitai and the Secretary of State have already said, is that the government had to correct GDP growth backwards, so it is apparent that the 4.8 percent increase planned at this time last year was much more optimistic, and now only 4.3 percent is expected by the government. [[15.10]] The third is the level of public debt. Last year's record government debt was 81.2 percent compared to GDP. That's not what drives you into debt because it's what the government does. So when the government debt grew earlier, it was a spiral; now that it is growing and reaching record levels, it is no problem at all. It is clear that the government is also very careful about the reduction, as it puts in 79,9 percent. You know, it's like when I go to the store, and it doesn't cost 100 forints, it costs 99 forints 90 forints, because the eye looks so much better that it starts with a nine instead of a 100. This is probably the case when planning budgetary debt, that the 7 looks much better than the 8th, even if the expected or expected reduction is almost dwarfed. But in the same way, if I mention, let us say, the amount of public debt, it can be said that it will rise to a level, since it will be about HUF 40,000, so that if you look at it in absolute terms, the size of this will be 31 December. So maybe this number or this is even more shocking. The next, the fourth, I wanted to mention, is the weakening of the forint. Apparently, this is a conscious policy of the government in conjunction with the central bank. Many years ago Matolcsy, then perhaps he was an economic minister, announced that the best thing in Hungary would be to have the euro-forint exchange rate around 350 forints. Then a lot of people laughed at it, and they said that this was an exaggeration, and maybe a little weaker forint would really help the Hungarian economy, but 350 forints would be an exaggeration. Now we all know that the euro is constantly in the area of 360 and 370 forints. So the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, must be settled permanently and in the long term to expect a euro above HUF 360. The last point of such concern, which has indeed been mentioned, is the expected rate of inflation, since inflation is now planned at 3.6 percent instead of 3 percent. I think everyone feels this on their skin, because we see news every day about the prices of basic foods and other products that have been fired into the sky, simply not to mention services. So these would be the concerns that I would like to confirm here in the context of the amendment, even for the purpose of the protocol, and perhaps with a little more emphasis on bringing it into the debate. This is important because it is always elegantly avoided by you not submitting a supplementary budget, and it would have been worth giving a supplementary budget many times. So the planning process that you bring here would usually lead to a fictitious budget, because you plan the numbers at a time when you can't see the final figures of the previous year, and in many cases the government is actually changing this budget itself by circumventing Parliament. This has also been the case in the present situation, and also in the context of regulation governance, that what is written is almost not true, because the government was so different from or bypassing Parliament by amending the budget. The second point that I wanted to talk about is what we think has been left out of this amendment, what we consider to be more resourceful. If I had to say this very simply, but I will also say specifics, then I would say that there is no more social support, so there is no more for Hungarian families, Hungarian people who are really in need. Here, Congressman Harghitai said that there are social policy successes. Many people in Hungary see this differently. Many people find that the government is not helping those who are most in need in such a situation, and especially in a crisis situation, this is exponential. Perhaps a recent survey has shown among OECD member countries that perhaps the amount of accumulated wealth in households and families has increased least in Hungary, but it seems that there has been some growth, but in this context the social distinction shows that the wealth of the rich has increased much more significantly and the wealth of the poor has not increased at all. So this social divide must have escalated here during the crisis. That is why we say that, in such a situation, small earners should be given more support to poor people, because there is a greater need for them. So what do I mean, what kind of social support? Let me give you a few examples: the care fee, the replacement allowance, the unemployment benefit, the family allowance, the child, the child benefit, the maternity allowance. All of this would have been an opportunity for the government to translate more. But it is equally true that there will be no surplus for people with lower pensions, disabled people or even disabled people. And it also shows that, in fact, pensioners are forced to lend to the government because of the rise in inflation. So they don't get this money in advance, but they're going to have the pensioner lend it to the big government afterwards. So this is a perfectly logical social success, in your opinion; it is a real perverted social policy, that the least deprived, those with the lowest income or pension, those with income, should lend the government until November or even for several months, because then they will receive it afterwards, if appropriate, instead of paying the pensioners now taking into account this calculation. Then it may also be worth mentioning what they are doing to the municipalities. That's what we were talking about in Pécs. Unfortunately, Congressman Harghitai has left, and we may not know that the city of Pécs has received extra money, but we may be able to share this knowledge with us. Basically, you want to punish larger self-governments politically for political reasons. So this is a completely clear political goal. They have lost the larger municipalities, it is no coincidence that they have drawn this limit in 25,000 people, under which automatic compensation is due, if a settlement has such a large number of inhabitants and those above it are supported by the government on an individual basis. It follows from the individual assessment so far, Mr Secretary of State that, if I remember correctly, the cities managed by Fidesz mayors and representative bodies linked to the government received roughly five hundred times more support from the government than the opposition-led municipalities. So it's not the horse's leg that hangs out, it's the horse that hangs out. It seems that before the election year, you will make it impossible for the local governments, based on conscious political calculations and considerations. So in Hungarian, local governments could have been helped or used for this occasion. On the other hand, one more thing can be mentioned: they spend an enormous amount of prestige on investment, an investment that today, right in the middle of the epidemic or during its first wave, does not make any sense or, to say the least, does not make any sense. There would be areas where much more money could be spent if these prestige investments were postponed. I am not saying that there is no period in the life of a government where such investment is worth spending, but it may now be more useful and, in our view, it would certainly be more useful to spend it on Hungarian families and people. Not to mention how, on the basis of today's votes, public wealth is being organised into private foundations. I just have one more question to close, so I don't have to waste so much time. The Secretary of State may be able to interpret this, but it might be interesting, because it has also been mentioned in terms of EU funds, and for the time being, the vice-president of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Lajos Szűcs, has spoken that the Restoration Fund has about HUF 6,000 billion available to the Hungarian government. According to the latest news, Viktor Orbán talked about Hungary's wish to use only a fraction, less than half, of this. I am not sure that the newspapers quoted this sentence precisely, but as if it had been said that they wanted to use 43% of this money, and what is so-called non-refundable support would be called down by the government, but what would be a credit-type option for Hungary, so what the European Union grants to Hungary from a common fund, it does not wish to call it off, because this leads to some kind of debt trap. [[15.20]] So if you could interpret that, Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it. On the other hand, let me just make one comment: if we borrow from the Chinese Communist Party, it is not a debt trap, or if we borrow from Putin Russia, it is not a debt trap, unless we borrow from the European Union, it is always that debt trap. This is a very interesting approach from a country with a Euro-Atlantic integration commitment: if we take credit from our own, it is a debt trap if we take on from those who are the biggest challenge for the European Union or other aspects, whether for other countries or for Western countries, but it is welcome and happy to give away Hungarian voters to China, the Chinese Communist Party and Putin, so that even my grandson pays the sum of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. So, apparently, it's less disturbing to the government that is extremely sensitive to sovereignty issues that China has this type of government. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] its lending is usually called predator lending, not by accident. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, and I was still shorter than Congressman Harghitai. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-100	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, There are a few things that I think are worth talking about. Here, my fellow Members have already expressed their views on this bill, some of which I would also reflect on, and some I would not repeat, because I very much agree with them. However, before that, I would like to express the feeling that was partly caused by the Secretary of State and, in part, by my fellow Members, by my fellow members, who are pro-government Members, on this matter. One of these feelings is that you are clearly prepared to be very defensive in advance, so you are facing a very serious crisis of conscience because of what has happened, and I think through these glasses you can see the real problem you are facing, even with the budget. The other is this feeling that has been said here: a complete lack of honesty. So, if you'd just tell me the truth and tell me why you're doing this, especially in a crisis like this, then, gentlemen, ladies, I think you could count on other people's suggestions in such a special crisis, and I could say a discussion that might give you something. Another part of the story is that you have never tried to do this in the last ten years between the opposition parties. I stress that I am referring specifically to the period of the epidemic, and to this emergency that we have now. Therefore, with the elements to which the Secretary of State refers, there is no problem; I can even say that what is presented is beautiful, there is a large Excel table to it, the numbers come out at the end, but there is a small problem: what is happening, you do not control it at all, but you are running after something you would like to catch up with, but, by the way, the solution to the situation is far from in your hands. Mr Secretary of State has referred to the fact that the key to growth is, therefore, the activation of the workforce reserve, which will not be easy, honourable Secretary of State. I would add that, if I look at the experience of the other day, this alone will be a serious increase in inflation, because in terms of re-launching, as it has not helped entrepreneurs, a significant increase in costs can be expected here and, in this respect, they will only be very careful about the danger arising from inflation; I think that more attention should be paid to this. And at a time like this, I would certainly not tell households to be indebted now, because otherwise you are not indebted enough, as you have just said here, or at the beginning. I wouldn't encourage them to do that right now. Your philosophy, which has treated this entire past period, in this respect, I think it is completely out of control now, and it is clear from what Mr Hargitai said here earlier, I would say that it was also an honest confession that we are actually in fact in the third wave of the epidemic, which we are now in connection with the waves, and we have only been seen twice, on the basis of the confession. In March-April everything changed from morning to afternoon, and everything had to be shut down overnight, because otherwise they didn't pay attention to what was happening, even though they talked about it, they missed the train they should have done. So you have delayed the steps, and this has put you at a serious disadvantage, which, I think, has caused both tangible and visible damage to Hungarian society and the economy. The same was done a second time, because after spring, they did not prepare in summer, and then in autumn they thought that this story was going on, and from then on all hell broke loose. I could say that you handled this epidemic itself and the related economic decisions, which you remember today... if you look back to 2008, you try to set a mirror there, and you remember yourself as Secretary of State that it seemed a good idea at the time; tell us now, Mr Hargitai, that it seemed a good idea at the time to do so. Now, in retrospect, I could say that you have managed to make such an overspend last year, and otherwise, in a rather incontrovertible way, you are preparing for the current one as well. So I think you're dealing with this crisis badly, both socially and economically. Now they're trying to escape in the third stage, and frankly, they don't really care what the cost is. They expect economic recovery from the investment pressure which they are trying to implement in the country in a loyal ownership circle, and also from this investment, from the increase in investment, as Mr. State Secretary here has said very strongly, they are looking forward to Hungary's recovery. There is one problem: all this is at the expense of people; so far they do what they do to more than 26 thousand people, because otherwise only people are not dealt with in this great crisis management. So, I guess you don't want to face it, of course, so I just told you that you're trying to run ahead and say that you're still grafting, we're still putting out, we're still putting out. All right, by the way, they've made mistakes before, which, by the way, because of their economic impact, we're here at a supplementary budget trying to explain that their previous decisions were correct. I would not be so proud, Mr State Secretary, of what Mr Secretary of State has already said about the accelerated allocation of EU funds. I understand that this is important to you in this sense, but I do not consider this to be a serious achievement, because it happens by basically placing the money on friends with an advance of 80 per cent after calls for proposals. In the meantime, let's look at the businesses, just to give the Secretary of State a little advantage: they offer companies a loan of HUF 10 million for free use as a subsidy, and otherwise, they will have them put it on a board that they have received support, so that the loan will have to be repaid ten years from now. This is your support, isn't it? Now, just because of the value of this: I looked at a nine-person company in particular, where, by the way, you have to pay an extra HUF 1.5 million a month by otherwise providing a HUF 1.5 million grant. [[15.30]] So when you decide to give a contribution discount to an enterprise and you refer to it, it starts with a small, very small company that you continue to pay, even though you claim to be helping it. In this situation, I could say, well, help you with the Fidesz government, and that means progress towards a sure destiny. Of course, it can still include support to families and a lot of things about how much money has been spent. I think that the spending in December last year is inexplicable, Mr Secretary of State, because in September you saw clearly that, in the course of your crisis management, people were not provided with much help, or, in fact, as I said, they could only help friends. This spending has led me here. As a result, they now want to legitimise the previous decisions, which you have submitted by budgetary law, which we are here for now, but they also do so under circumstances that what is happening is incomprehensible, and instead of the previous funds, there are now suddenly frameworks that are being redrafted. In that sense, I would say that you are actively seeking to reduce the control role of Parliament, not to have the possibility of a simple comparison that was before. This includes the fact that last summer you adopted the budget that is currently being amended, which, by the way, was completely pointless. Clearly, the predictability of your reasoning has been reduced rather than increased. Without a decision by Parliament, the government has governed the past period by merely a regulation, so it is safe to say that from outside, there have been inaccessible and uncontrollable public finances. In this way, we must also take account of this situation, whichever emergency announcement is referred to. They essentially implement regulation governance and do so under total government control over budgetary processes. As I said before, the consequences of this have come to pass, and the shortage has really been unleashed. To give you another understandable example, although I am sure you will be able to explain it when you spoke about the health wage increase last year, and you have calculated the rate of 300 billion forints, it is now apparent that there was no cover for this, because this year you want to finance it with EU support. I would do that by throwing 300 billion forints on a ventilator at the beginning of last summer, otherwise, as it turns out, there was no need for that. If that's what it looks like, then that's what I'm calling attention to, because your budget management means dragging you around, deciding something for a moment of joy, feeling, and subsequently claiming that it was perfectly fine. With the end of the emergency, the government regulations, as you said, will expire, but we will not support this, we will not legitimise these decisions that I have just missed. Not even because of the uncertainty you have created, Mr Secretary of State, it also contributes to the fact that the complete lack of underlying macroeconomic analysis and prognosis necessary for the amendment is what we are talking about, you have not done such a thing, so you always live in the moment of joy. If you think that this is a decision to make now, then you will decide, but this, I think, is unacceptable. It is proposed that the percentage of the budget deficit and its volume are not established. Why do you say 7.5 percent? Why not 8 and why not 6? Why do they think that and not talk about how it will decrease? I think that there is a clear possibility of uncontrolled government spending, as you have now planned. I find it outrageous that, despite the high budget deficit, resources are not currently being spent on crisis management to a significant extent. Don't be surprised if we have submitted 21 items on the opposition side that need to be immediately suspended as an investment and the money should be spent more on crisis management. We do not agree that the money will be spent on ever-reimbursing investments instead of effective crisis management. This is a waste of resources, and this applies not only to the budget, but also to EU funds from here on out, I see that this is what they want to practice. But now I'm gonna stop a little bit. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-04-27-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mr Csárdi, Member. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The bill before us attempts to amend this year's budget. The success of this, I think, is perfectly demonstrated by the fact that the pro-government MEPs quote here in front of the House from 14 to 15 years ago. To illustrate what the period of 14-15 years ago means, of the two pro-government representatives sitting against me, for example, Congressman Nacsa prepared for his graduation 14-15 years ago. [[Not yet!]] Or even that, because it was a long time ago. So I think that this is a perfect demonstration of the internal frustration that appears between the feelings of pro-government representatives. On the other hand, the result fits well into the processes of recent years, becoming an even more opaque, even more meaningless, consolidated text, which is in line with the centralising policy of the Fidesz government and strengthening all institutions outside the government. Parliament doesn't have any significance anymore. They did not honour the Hungarian Parliament enough to take the trouble to show in detail their plans, what some items contain, up to hundreds of billions of HUF extra expenditure items. This is understandable from the point of view that Viktor Orbán has a great deal to do with the arbitrary exercise of power without counterweights, which he likes very much, and he will extend the extraordinary legal order until autumn, and God knows for how long. That is understandable, but what I do not understand is why you call this democracy consistently. This is very far from all democratic core values. But let me say a few more words about budget planning. Once again, it has been proved that it is foolish to make a budget in the spring, since the processes of the following year are barely visible. Of course, it's just a sign that the National Assembly will be disdained, and they'll like some cheese paper, so you say, and the government can do whatever it wants in the course of the year. The necessary legal background has been created over the past few years. But last year it was really strange to make a budget in the spring, if we insist that planning a budget should also be professionally responsible. In the first wave of epidemics and crises in the living world, it was quite clear that rapid and turbulent changes could come, which are impossible to see for a year in advance. In the 2020 budget, the idea was to create two big bottomless hats, put everything in them, and then arbitraryly tossed the money with regulations, without control. So the defense became part of Lőrinc Hunguest Mészáros's hotel support for 18 billion, so the defense became part of the World Hunting Exhibition, so the MotoGP course increased the amount of protection that is planned and HUF 65 billion, if I remember correctly. [[15.40]] By the way, we can be glad that we even know about these expenses from the government's decisions. Obviously, there will also come a day when, if it is up to you, they will be considered as economically sensitive information, and they will not tell us what you are spending the Hungarian taxpayers' money on, of course, if you are going to do the following budgets, which I hope you will not, because this is not what the interests of our country show. It is recalled that when the economic security fund was established last year, in the 2020 budget, they refused to define, either then or later, exactly what previous items were re-labeled and what the new items, lines with which economic protection could actually increase. This opaque and uncontrollable system is now being carried forward in the 2021 budget, and we still do not know what it is that is being re-labeled and what is not. There are so many changes that the economic security fund will be renamed as an economic re-launch fund. Well, thank you very much, but that's not much further ahead. I think I don't want to talk about it for a long time, but I can't just walk away from your farming. Just yesterday, the outstanding representative of the Hungarian government declared that the EU's recovery fund, this RRF source, would only be called at 43 percent, the part of the grants, not the part of the loan, because they do not want to indebte the Hungarian economy. This sounds very good then, and only if we know the constructions of different loans, what conditions belong to certain credit products. So you should look at the conditions of the loan drawn from the RRF source, or the conditions of the loan from which... In fact, I'm sorry, and the clause is also important on this issue, so what kind of conditions do you have that loan you want to build a Budapest-Belgrád railway line from which you want to build a Fudan University with credit and Chinese credit. So I would ask the Secretary of State to tell me, for the sake of the protocol, what credit costs and clauses are provided for the contract whereby the Hungarian State receives the funds to implement the Fudan University or the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. If I can compare this with the loan drawn from the RRF source, then I say that I can make a responsible decision that you have acted correctly or incorrectly. And then, of course, you will have to examine whether this Fudan University is needed, or if there is a need for a Budapest-Belgrád railway line, but this is already, I think, the subject of another speech. And speaking of China, it is worth adding to your economic activity that China is a loan, a China loan, because they must serve their economic interests. God, if they wanted to serve the economic interests of the Hungarian population so enthusiastically, how happy I would be! But you want to trade in people's diseases, get rich. Interestingly, incredibly interestingly, the price of the vaccine purchased from China is significantly more expensive, significantly more expensive, and it is known that this price difference does not come from the quality of the vaccine, but from the fact that the economic interest group close to you, the government, has been registered as an intermediary, so of course, he has become very richly rich, and who else besides him knows it. I think that here you can capture your economic policy, unfortunately your social policy, because the social and economic policy of Fidesz-KDNP is all about the fact that the oligarchs and economic interests close to you will be fully served through overpriced contracts, and that is, of course, paid by Hungarian taxpayers. Finally, I would like to make a point about the municipalities, because it was clear from the time the budget was set up in 2021 that the government wanted revenge on the municipalities, and I do not want to leave this without a word, not just on the opposition, but on the whole system, on the whole municipal system. Viktor Orbán has decided that he does not like the self-government of citizens. Besides, he wanted to take it all down a long time ago, and now he's slowly making it happen. Several powers have been removed from the municipalities in recent years, the resources have been reduced to a minimum and only the Fidesz municipalities have been able to dredge something back. According to the current amendment, 42 billion more will be given to the whole sector plus the municipal budget, with the withdrawal of the business tax of HUF 84 billion from the municipalities, the take-off of the car tax was 35 billion minus, and the pointless maintenance of free parking typically took tens of billions of forints from the metropolitan authorities, but, I add, several large rural cities were extremely bad at this decision. In view of the fact that the additional resources will only be allocated to the Fidesz municipalities according to previous practice, 10-15 percent of the entire sector will be withdrawn. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true! Peter Benő Banai is shaking his head.]] I understand that Mr. Secretary of State is shaking his head, but unfortunately, the practice doesn't justify you. I believe that on all these grounds this amending budget, this social policy and this economic policy are not eligible for LMP at all, and that is why we will not support it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-04-27-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We can finally be glad that what has not happened so far is that there will be a supplementary budget for the Hungarian state. This was not the case before, and my fellow Member from Harghita said that it was not because, in the previous period, the Orbán government had always managed the budget and it was always achieved. This is only true in very part, because only one number was achieved, but it was very much, and that was no different than the number of deficits, but all the other numbers changed very significantly, very significantly. And over the years, we have experienced that, because the plans were not fulfilled, this resulted in a sector suffering from this transformation, and the result being that education and health care, and let's say, the pension fund paid for the extra expenses. And if the pension was mentioned earlier, let us mention that between 2010-19, this government took a monthly pension by replacing the mixed indexation with this indexation. I've calculated that, by the way, and it's true. So if you give us back something of this now, of course we are happy, but do not think that you have done much better than the Socialist Government did in the previous crisis. It's good that the Secretary of State is here, because you may remember that in June... [[Lőrinc Nacsa approaches Péter Benő Banai.]] Yeah, well, you don't seem to remember or listen to me, but I'm trying to tell you, okay? So, in June, when the budget was negotiated, I said two things. One thing has already been repeated by several people is that it is not appropriate to adopt the budget in June, because it is a very uncertain period, so it would be much better to adopt it in September or October, because then we see much more. That was one of the findings. The other one, and I will keep it up, because that is probably what the future will be about, is that there will be very uncertain periods, so it would be worth returning to the old practice of adopting it in the autumn. [[15.50]] The second thing I said at the time is that the macro-track that the Ministry of Finance is counting on is not sustainable, because by June it was already quite clear that the number of industrial production, retail sales and current consumption figures in the first two months of the second quarter, as well as services, would show a very significant reduction in GDP. And of course now, when you brought in the justification that it would be 7.5 per cent instead of 2.9 per cent deficit, then, on the one hand, you are obviously referring to the epidemic, and here you rightly refer, let us say, to the numbers of the first quarter, but I cannot accept the other reference, because it was quite clear that that GDP, that macro-growth path, that macro-track would not be sustainable and could not be maintained, and that is obviously why you were forced to make an amendment, a major amendment. The deficit has therefore increased significantly, but it must also be seen that this deficit has not increased because the government would have dealt intensively with the economic crisis itself or because it would have dealt very effectively with the social crisis that has arisen here because of the crisis, since it does not acknowledge or acknowledge this social crisis. The government has missed a lot of things last year, but it is not included in this year, nor in this additional budget. This has been said by my colleagues, such as the head speaker of the MSZP, Mr Mesterházy, that the amount and duration of the unemployment allowance has still not been increased. The increase in sick leave would be justified to 100 percent, at least for the first six weeks, the wage subsidies should be raised, whether in retrospect, as of 1 January. And, well, there would be a need for a re-opening aid, if, after the outbreak of the virus, it would be possible for hospitality to start, then such things would be greatly needed; and the family allowance, which has already been discussed. I was pleased to see that this supplementary budget included an economic re-opening action plan, and this is an impressively high amount. So this amount of HUF 6,000 billion is 12 percent of the annual GDP, and there really is something to be done about it, and that would actually allow a very positive development. So I started to look at this big table enthusiastically, and I started to look at it twice or three times, to read it, to see what the driving industry would eventually be, how technical and technological progress would be made in this whole thing, and how we could get to a truly sustainable growth path. Well, unfortunately, I couldn't get to the green side, and there are general wordings here in this table, from which it doesn't appear at all, it doesn't show what the government actually considers to be a matter of gravity, and how to try to really get out of this crisis. The same goes on, it seems very much like the previous year, it has only just been renamed, and such a re-opening action plan has been formulated. I'd like to talk about two more things. One was that, in fact, it was also very surprising to me to what extent the SAO and the Fiscal Council did not perform the control role they should have performed. Mr Secretary of State quoted the opinion of the Fiscal Council for a long time. I drew the opinion of the SAO first, when I prepared for this speech, with the date of 5 June 2020 in which it went through the expenditure and revenue side of the budget, and I read there that 97.5 percent of revenue appropriations are well-founded. 0.3 per cent of expenditure appropriations is not justified. Now I don't see how the 2.9 percent deficit is going to be a 7.5 percent deficit. Or why did the SAO write that down? So I think that's not the job of the SAO. Secondly, I would like to say one or two of the findings of the Fiscal Council on the present substance. You are very pleased that the Fiscal Council will only have a 7.5% public deficit, and this is lower than the previous year, and this is an extra thing. The other plus- and very positive thing is that the debt-to-GDP ratio will also decrease. Last year's 80.4 percent will only be 79.9 percent this year. Well, please, anyone who's ever dealt with the macros in his life knows that this difference between the two numbers is far and wide within the margin of error. So, I don't see how you can say numbers like this, it's just got one of those advertising values. It might be good to try to check something, but it's still dropping. However, the same table also shows that the euro exchange rate will decrease from HUF 365.1 in 2020 to HUF 360,9 in 2021. Once again, I quote my fellow Member from Harghita to say that this is what he would say, but it is not visible now, because it is clear from today's point of view that if the productivity of the Hungarian economy is below and permanently below the productivity of the European Union, then the external economic balance can only be maintained if the depreciation of the forint is maintained to the same extent, i.e. a further depreciation of 8-10 percent can be expected later. I do not understand on what basis and how the Ministry of Finance thinks that the forint will be strengthened in the coming months. Finally, I would like to say that I have a very strong impression on the whole substance, on the whole supplementary budget, that this whole crisis period is being used by the government to do what it wants, because there is no obligation on the general government deficit now, because the Maastricht criteria do not have to be respected. The second is that significant, significant amounts of EU support will be available in the next period, and, therefore, debt can go on and continue. And not only is there a spatter, but it is also something that can be read in textbooks that if a government feels that the next election will be lost by textbooks, then what it does is that it creates an economic and budgetary situation that means a forced career for the next government, so that the next government cannot implement and enforce its own economic policy. [[16.00]] Well, somewhere in this supplementary budget I saw this, that what was described in the American textbooks is now very well followed by the Hungarian government, and it is definitely trying to create such an emergency situation für alle Fälle, whatever will happen next year's elections. But this is a very irresponsible policy, because it puts the weight on the back of future generations. So they're gonna have to pay it back, they're gonna have to come up with these things, the irresponsible investments that my colleagues have been talking about for a long time from Paks II to Fudan University, which doesn't have any real positive returns, but one goal is to get as much money out of it as possible, so you can rip it off. With this, you hope that your own oligarchs will survive the next period. I trust that this expectation will not come true, and I also hope that they will not be able to take away their future from young people today. We're definitely trying to stop this from happening and take it back. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-27-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the committee representing nationalities, and then a two-minute comment will be possible. I give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, who explains the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, and then continues his speech in Hungarian, and in the end he also says goodbye in his ethnic language. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited and as Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Government, Foreign Affairs and Budget of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow the XC of 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. I would like to state our position with regard to bill No 1. At its meeting on 26 April 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided to hold a detailed debate on the implementation of the Resolution House Rule 32. § (2) and formed an opinion on the resolution of the House Rule 36. Paragraph 5 of this Article. The Committee supported the amendment with 13 unanimous votes, which mainly concerns the ethnicities of Hungary in the following few points: Amendment 10. §2 of the Act provides average wage-based support for the provision of public education and vocational training tasks for institutions maintained by national authorities. Amendment 19. §2 of the Treaty provides for a supplement for the supply of diabetes to national authorities in addition to the current aid. In addition, Annex 8 to the amendment sets out the priorities for the terms of the task-based support of local national authorities on certain domestic and administrative rules applicable during an emergency and on certain emergency-related measures 570/2020. Government Decree No 12 As set out in Section 2 of this Annex. [[Continue in 192/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would like to say that it is a great help to the national authorities that the 2020 XC on Hungary's 2021 budget is a great help. According to Chapter 2, paragraphs 2.3 and 2.3.1 of Annex 10 to Act No 10, the provisions of this Act were not to apply to the assessment of the score on which the mission grants for 2021 were based. Local self-governments shall be eligible for the 2020 task-based support taking into account a new score determined in accordance with paragraph 4. This might also be interesting, since our local governments were completely affected by the virus situation, they could not function as they were supposed to, they could not have held events, so they were also a little desperate, but we considered it important that, in addition to the absence of these events, our operation should continue to be possible. That is why it is important and welcome news that our local governments have a great deal of help. In addition, it is worth mentioning that in point 4, the scores for establishing the 2021 task-based support were as follows, and I would quote this. In point (a), the average of the central scores of local minority self-governments in 2018 and 2020 could be applied, or the local minority self-governments in 2019 for the newly formed local minority self-governments in 2019 could be used as LXXI of 2019 on Hungary's 2020 budget. The average of its 2020 scores according to Annex 9, point 2. I mention on several occasions that it is very important, because our municipalities operated during the virus situation and continue to operate, and thanks to the Government of Hungary for providing the support in the budget. We continue to welcome this process by increasing support from Hungary's central budget since the third parliamentary term to national authorities and the public education and cultural institutions operating in their maintenance. This ensures that nationalities living in Hungary maintain their national identity, their mother tongue, faith and culture. XC 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974. The bill was drawn up and submitted on the basis of consensus, in agreement with the needs of the Hungarian nationalities, and proposed to the Parliament for adoption. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to stress that, in recent years, the nationalities in Hungary have become beneficiaries of a significant increase in resources. Thank you to the Government of Hungary for providing nationalities with the resources necessary for their operation this year as well. I would particularly like to thank Mr Péter Banai, State Secretary, for his assistance in drawing up the budget and responding to various needs. We hope that the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian Parliament will also support the resources submitted by nationalities for 2022. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-107	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2021-04-27-108	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am sorry that Professor Mellar left the room, and he said a few weeks later about the budget for next year, because the honourable Member talked about everything, because this year's budget has been modified, it is about the current programmes, the current investments and the current budget. Congressman Mellar said that he did not remember that when he adopted the 2010 budget, he signed a declaration with a number of other economists not to accept the 2010 budget because it does not serve the country's competitiveness, recovery from the crisis, it is underdesign and it brings people austerity, not help. That was the last budget you had for a gyurneyist, a champ. Congressman Mellar wrote a letter against this. It was the same budget that Attila Mesterházy said in his speech to Parliament that I think this budget is the budget for the future. Then Congressman Varju said that despite all the alarms, there is no need for further cuts in 2008. In 2009, it was the 13th month's pension, the 13th month's wage taken from the public sector. I think that, in light of this, it is worth watching the opposition representatives speak. However, I was struck by a comment when Congressman Csárdi said that Chinese vaccine was expensive. So that you price life, I understand. You're talking about how much you should spend on a life-saving vaccine and how much you shouldn't. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, if we see the Eastern vaccines well above the EU average in Hungary, grafting up to a few hours ahead will lead to a re-opening of the economy, then that money has long come in, and the difference between vaccines is to be earned. But for you to price life, I find it outrageous. The congressman said a word about Pécs. If you're watching the news, a 15 billion-dollar investment in Pécs was announced only last week, with a HUF 4.6 billion grant from this government. [[16.10]] And you're saying that opposition cities are not supported? Just an investment last week. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will continue with the speeches announced in writing. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-27-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are at the meeting of the additional budget for 2021, and many of my opposition fellow Members have said the main idea that I would like to raise in this comment. It's no coincidence that we're here in this supplementary budget. When we discussed the budget for this year early last summer, we all said that during this pandemic period there is so much uncertainty about the budget we do not yet know how the country will react, how many waves will affect the country, yet you insisted on the usual rate of approval of the budget during the summer; not to mention that the exchange rate of the euro is constantly changing. We then drew attention to this and indicated that it would be good to adopt the budget more clearly in the autumn or later, even before the end of the year. This is not your fault, because of the whole emergency, there was a uncertainty factor that required this budget to be revised this year, which is the year 2021. We would ask for responsibility from the Ministry of Finance, but, apparently, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán subordinates the professional position of the Ministry of Finance to his party policy goals, because apparently, the year 2020 could be closed with a mad, unbridled state spending deficit of HUF 5500 billion. And here we are now in 2021, when the deficit of around 3 percent is now planned to 7.6, not by accident. We see the expenditure with which the budget for 2021 has practically been released. Obviously, it is not the protection against the epidemic that is your main concern, but the fact that as much money as possible will be shoveled out of the state central budget through oligarchs and stroms. The Ministry of Finance is trying to put this in front of the House, supported by professional views, when we see the political will behind it, and this is not the first time we have said it. The measures that led to the fact that today in Hungary we have to talk about the fact that the money is not going to be spent on disease management, but on appearances and luxury investments. That is why we have said that these investments must be stopped with immediate effect. Of course, you say that this will create jobs and how good this country is, but you should also look at what the priorities are now. The priorities are that all Hungarian people who have lost their jobs or lost their homes can be given all the help they can get. And I wouldn't think so... and my fellow Members have already said that hundreds of billions of forints are going away from the central budget for investments, programmes that are not needed in the world, especially in this epidemic. And when we talk about the need for a proportionate public burden, not to support foreign multinational companies, but the Hungarian SME sector even more, we are not talking about the air, but we feel the Hungarian reality today, that people, small entrepreneurs, are terrified that they will be in a position to not be able to sustain their businesses as they fall out of revenues. Mr. Secretary of State has listed the three main pockets that include the HUF 6,000 billion, and there he mentioned tourism. As a member of Balaton, I think that I cannot go without saying that, as long as sport and cultural investments are planned for HUF 120 billion, tourism will receive only HUF 90 billion at national level. And I am talking not only about Lake Balaton, but also about the tourism sector of the whole country, which, let's face it, was an economic sector during the period of economic activity, during which you should have used it for reserve training and other investments that would drive these sectors even more. So 90 billion forints for tourism development, and here we always have the little devil. When we talk about tourism, we always think of names, whose company, whose hotel, whose restaurant will get these investments. In particular, we would like more support to be given to those catering establishments in difficulty that have been forced to close for several months. There are many places where the table has been closed. Summer's coming, everyone's preparing to make up for the loss of income over the past period. This will, of course, bring about price increases on the market. Hungarian families are in a very difficult situation. How will they be able to help businesses to survive this situation? To this, I think this HUF 90 billion is very, very little. And when we say that the SME sector should be replaced by multinationals, that is exactly what we are talking about, that we should now give them a helping hand, and when we are amending the budget for 2021, because that is what the epidemic situation wants; and, by the way, you also seem to realize that the budget that was presented last summer, adopted, is already on the moon, and it is quite simply not possible to keep it, that is exactly what we are talking about. We should have stopped the waste of national wealth with immediate effect, but unfortunately, we are here that today you have played hundreds of billions into foundations. It would have been precisely this future to keep the national wealth here at the state and not to go to foundations, to your people, and not to you to decide about it, but to all of us here, within the walls of Parliament. National property should be in the state. You also said that no, he's in a better place than us, and then we know how to handle him. The problem is that we opposition representatives have already learned what you like to spend it on: to invest, to achieve privatisation goals with which certain oligarchs will become rich, and obviously my fellow Members have already said very well that in 2022, when the new national unity government stands up, we will recover these funds that have been transferred to the foundation, because we believe that it belongs to the state and not to the foundations. I would like to touch on one more subject, and that is the local government. When we say that in the settlements of less than 25,000 people, the lost trade tax... I know that you do not like the word that you have taken away, because no one has taken away from you, because it has remained in the enterprises, but you have taken away half of the trade tax from the municipalities. But there are 47 settlements that go beyond the number of 25,000 people, and Mr.György Balla is responsible for submitting a proposal to the government about how these municipalities will be compensated, at all; because he dropped a half sentence that there is no need for compensation. Well, how is that not necessary? ! The municipalities are rushing for air; because something should also be done about the voluntary tasks, because the Hungarian people who live in the given settlements with these additional municipal services... I know that this is not a good definition, but I would say that when a cultural event is organised by a local government, it is a voluntary task. Now, when people are closed for a long time, maybe in the next month, once the third wave is down, and we can really get some air, then they can go out, and there will be cultural events, the municipalities will have to withdraw them. There will be no such events, they will not be able to support civilians, they will destroy the communities in the area. [[16.20]] So when these subsidies are lost, when the business tax is not returned to the municipalities to this extent to more than 25,000 people, they are supporting concrete, individual projects, as we have learned, that it will come and go to those who are able and good, and will nod, who will not, and say that I will not lie down with the Fidesz MP, I will not give in to blackmail, it will not receive any support from this compensation fund, although this would be very necessary, and you will send a message to the Hungarian people if they are distinguished. It is not possible to discriminate against Hungarian people according to the fact that they live in a city of over 25,000 people, in a city with opposition to the city leadership, or in a city of over 25,000 people, where the government is pro-government. The Hungarian people deserve more, responsible economic policy decisions, decisions that serve the interests of the Hungarian people, not the friends and the oligarchs. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán should not use Hungary's central budget for political purposes. This is what he is doing now, and what they have put before us is also for the same purpose with the additional budget. I am very confident that Minister Varga and Minister of State Banai will also be on his heels, and at last they will be able to say no to these unbridled spending, and indeed the Hungarian people will be the winners of the 2021 and hopefully the 2022 budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2021-04-27-111	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-27-112	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue where the previous solo has left off, to deal with the situation of the Hungarian municipalities, not for the first time here in Parliament, and it is always a matter of changing the central budget or any kind to talk about the situation of the municipalities. We can evaluate a year and a half process, because in this year and a half much has changed in your attitude with regard to Hungarian municipalities. There are obviously two reasons for this. One of them is not spoken of or denied this reason, this is due to the election of the local government in October 2019. I claim that you specifically shape the legislation, your decisions, so that the opposition-led municipalities come out wrong. It is not necessarily related to the coronal virus epidemic, it is also used to do so, but it appeared, for example, that a government body or the National Competitiveness Council has already made several proposals before, for example, dealing with local business tax, specifically proposals, and you have in no way opposed the virus in any of your statements, so even before the outbreak, which would have drastically reduced local government's revenue in peacetime, and this would have made it difficult for municipalities to operate in peacetime if that version was adopted. Of course, when we hear these things, we often say that, well, maybe they don't dare do that anymore, but then life denies us a lot of times. This unfortunate epidemic has been with us for more than a year with its social and economic impact, with many tragedies, and it is certainly worth analysing the situation of the municipalities from this perspective as well. There is a difference of opinion between us, and it is very clear here after the parliamentary debates of the last year that you consider the municipalities, the Hungarian self-government as an area to be squeezed; in our view, according to the MSZP's position, and I believe in this, the municipalities are working on the front line of defence, they also have an increased burden on the ground, because in many areas, in the area of urban management, they have extra tasks directly in the field of defence, in the social and health field, they have extra costs, and, for example, in the countries with a happier fate, governments understand this, accept, help the municipalities with their own tools this kind of struggle. We are experiencing radically opposite phenomena, and I am about to go through this, but I would just like to say that we have talked about compensation here, and many local government leaders thought that they could get some hope here at the beginning of the year, January-February, otherwise, and that they could get hope for the people living in the place that would show a way out of this difficult economic situation. Perhaps the last straw could be seen as the additional budget, i.e. amending the budget for 2021, it could be thought that the government might consider that the policy that it is pursuing is good and that it will provide compensation to the municipalities, the municipalities whose situation is difficult to deal with. I would like to say in summary this year and a half, with this additional budget closed, you have betrayed the municipalities, you have betrayed the people who are going to be in a difficult situation because of these decisions. And here, I would make a distinction between two things that you are without exception collapsing here, too, was a two-minute comment by Nacsa Lőrinc, and here he also shattered the investment and development issues on the issues of operation and basic operation. Obviously, those who listen superficially to these debates may be able to be washed together, but in fact, the difference between them is very clear. You can see here in the 2021 budget what elements of the economic re-launch action plan are intended, what resources are available on each line. The content of these has also been debated here by my fellow Members, who have spoken before me, that I am sure that it is well put together, or that it could not have really helped where it was needed, municipalities, businesses, workers, a great many, I think constructive speeches have been made from these. It can be concluded that it still has a huge scale and then half of the resources that you spend in this action plan from EU funds, so it will be achieved with the EU's feet, partly with the resources of the RRF and partly with the resources of the seven-year budget. So it is, after all, that they are trying to use EU funds to act as if they were helping, and these resources are saying it! These municipalities are entitled to these people, who live in the territory of these municipalities. However, there is obviously a program like the Hungarian village, the programme "Modern Cities" and, of course, no one disputes the need for these programs, but let me mention only one element, such as the.Modern Cities" program. In April 2015, you promised the M30 motorway in Miskolc by 2018, then 2019, and then you just started the project here, thanks to God, maybe one half of it will take place next year, and then when will it reach Košice, so when will the motorway between Košice and Miskolc be continuous? Maybe 23, but we'll see how far they push it. This development is sold in two cycles as your charity, while the Slusspoene is an international treaty, the Via Carpatia Convention, which requires Hungary to build it until 2026. So it is possible to bake these developments as if it were a direct help for the municipalities on your part, but it is something else: it is about EU developments that are due to the people living in these areas, to those living in these municipalities. And then let's look at the operation, because that's the real problem. You have not given such assistance to operate for a substantial penny, in particular, I say the opposition-led municipalities over 25,000. When the coronal virus epidemic started last year, you immediately figured out that free parking could stop the epidemic in Europe, which is unique, so this device was not used anywhere to this extent, for a very short period of time tops. [[16.30]] Now they're opening up everything, hearing that, and over four million vaccinees, there's a lot of services starting up again. The question is, how long will free parking take? I think that decisions that are harmful to local authorities are obviously being maintained for a long time, but it would also be good to have an answer to what they intend to do with this. At the very beginning of the epidemic, the motor vehicle tax was taken from the municipalities, the state aid for local community transport was taken away, which is unprecedented, and here I was promised, in this House, an interpellation of my state support. Only 500 million were taken from Miskolc on this title, no wonder MVK Zrt. is in a difficult situation and is suffering from payment and financing problems. But they didn't stop here. These two were already unacceptable, and my colleague Sándor Szabó and I also had a motion to return this, to return at least 40% of the car tax to the municipalities and to give back state aid, but this was rejected. At the end of the year, however, a significant part of the local industrialisation tax revenue was taken away. It's probably what they were trying to do to help businesses. Another issue is that businesses in a really difficult situation do not have very much to pay local industrialisation tax because it is revenue-based and not profit-based. In other words, a person who is in a really difficult situation and had no income at all during this period can be halved, but obviously little. The introduction of a more effective instrument could also have been considered, but it would have been necessary to compensate for the loss of revenue from municipalities. That's what they promised, but that's not what they did. Under 25,000 they promised automatic compensation, introduced, and over 25,000 they said they were negotiating. Over 25 thousand inhabitants, the Fidesz-led municipalities and county seats received a Christmas gift of HUF 1.5 billion to carry out compulsory municipal tasks, in a freely usable manner. This was not given to the opposition authorities, which were looking forward to hearing, to receiving a meaningful response. And here came about a month ago the elegant response of the appointed György Balla: there will be no compensation, and then it will be possible to negotiate investments and improvements. But I told you before that investments and improvements are primarily EU funds. In this context, I think that this is a huge scam for millions of Hungarians living in opposition-led municipalities, whose mayors are opponents, in a situation where the social and economic situation is piling up in the capital and in the countryside. This is unacceptable! I can see that this is part of a conceptual campaign. This budget does not manage it; it does not manage it, nor does it manage our proposals submitted several times by the MSZP, such as raising the amount of unemployment benefit to HUF 100 thousand for nine months, or even a one-off HUF 500 thousand allowance for social workers. So this additional budget is thus unfair and specifically part of their campaign with opposition-led municipalities. Therefore, it is clearly not possible to be eligible in this form. Come to your senses and change this proposal for the next few weeks. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-04-27-113	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group.
u2021-04-27-114	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have listened with interest to this proposal and listened to the debate that has been held so far, and in addition to expressing my opinion or responding to the speakers before me, I would basically like to use this situation to ask questions to Mr Secretary of State, because I have experienced in recent years that Mr State Secretary is indeed approaching these debates from a professional perspective. So there are far less political aspects in your speeches, so I will take advantage of this situation and ask questions. Firstly, I would like to anticipate that in order to make such a amending budget in a well-founded manner, it is necessary to have an appropriate assessment of the situation in order to be able to submit next year's budget on a well-founded basis or to plan the use of the development resources available from the European Union. An assessment of the situation that has taken stock of the past decade, what has been achieved, what system problems they have not been able to do, and an assessment of the impact of the past year, your failing actions, and the impact that this crisis has had on Hungarian society, the Hungarian economy. And obviously you need to know and properly formulate for yourself the challenges that will befall the country in the future. It can be seen that a lot is changing from the geopolitical environment to the world economy, and unfortunately crises are not only coming, but in the coming periods we will be in a situation where we will have to deal with them more and more often. It is therefore necessary to be able to assess the challenges precisely, and on the basis of these, in the context of them, it is necessary to be able to define precisely the objectives that we need to achieve in order to find a real solution to these challenges and to the problems we have so far. It is important to take into account the effects of the crisis and its lessons learned that we cannot go further in economic policy thinking as we have so far. It is already clear that vulnerability is perhaps the most justified indicator for Europe as a whole, but also for Hungary. The crisis has shown this very strongly. What I can say at the beginning of my speech is that I think that you have all been inadequate in three respects, so you do not appreciate the situation very well, you are unable to make a proper account of the challenges ahead of us and you do not define the objectives well. They do not move in such a way that a self-sufficient patriot economic policy based mainly on local production or regional cooperation is based. They are not going in the direction of finally establishing the basis for achieving results in relation to system problems such as catching up in rural areas, but, on the contrary, they are making Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy even more vulnerable to various investments and very strange political motivation with agreements. Here I am thinking essentially of China or Russia. Before I discuss these in detail and ask my questions, allow me a few reactions. Mr State Secretary, in his expo, he spoke about the fact that there have been very important, significant government measures at the level of regulation in recent years. Let me draw attention to the fact that the government has made a series of very serious failures and very serious mistakes. I can basically say that you have not lived, but have abused the possibilities of extraordinary authorisation, and that there has been insufficient economic protection that has been shown by you in this severe epidemiological situation and during the crisis. I'm just giving you a few examples of my criticism. As we have said many times, in such a situation, they need to reevaluate the policy of giving greater help to people who lose their jobs, to families who are in the most difficult situation. We have asked many times for the extension of the period of unemployment benefit from three months to nine months, but you have been following the mantra that you believe in work and not in aid. However, it was not taken into account that many people did not work because they did not want to, but because they simply lost their jobs because of restrictions. Obviously, restrictions were important in many respects, economic sectors stopped, and companies simply went bankrupt, crisis sectors formed, and a lot of people lost their jobs, not because their employers wouldn't have wanted to operate or wouldn't have wanted to work. According to our calculations, this step, which would have cost HUF 86 billion to earn nine months' unemployment benefit, would have cost us HUF 86 billion. Compared to this, my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát has already mentioned a measure that the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which was never presented, is spending as much money as 200 billion forints in the two years of the crisis, of which 175 thousand new jobs could have been created. Then the documents relating to this investment were simply encrypted. So they didn't show what 200 billion were spent on in two years, the 200 billion that could have been used to support the most difficult families in crisis management could have been spent on an increased length of unemployment benefit. You guys just encrypted that. This money was spent on a project that couldn't prove its return and meaning, but rather encrypted. But likewise, what economic protection measure was it that Lőrinc Mészáros's hotel chain was granted a grant of HUF 18 billion from state resources, while Lőrinc Mészáros withdrew a dividend of HUF 11.5 billion from his construction company? [[16.40]] And then let us face it that you have not given adequate support to small businesses, we can say that you are one of the hosts at EU level in terms of how much support you have given to the smallest enterprises. Congressman Szűcs had a strong statement that for you crisis management was not about withdrawal, it wasn't about austerity. I think we've denied that a lot of times. The municipalities were affected by brutal withdrawals and brutal restrictions. My fellow Members have already talked about this, and the political aspects are basically reflected here. In the case of municipalities, austerity measures, vehicle taxation, business tax came one by one, the State withdrew from the public financing of local public transport, but also the changes to the public utility system caused a great deal of additional costs. So they were continuous, and there are still restrictions on local governments. I do not want to get into this; my fellow Member Varga spoke very deeply about it. And it is clear from this budget amendment that these cuts, we can say, will remain, so you have no idea what situation the municipalities are in and do not want to compensate for these brutal withdrawals even in the next period. Congressman Harghitai is not here, and I am very sorry that he referred to the difficult situation of the county seat as a baranya representative. Here I would like to refer back to the fact that between 2009 and 2019 the city had a fidesz leadership, in parallel with a Fidesz government, a two-thirds government. I think, in this regard or such a consideration, you can only criticize yourself for why the city is in such a situation. By the way, it's a fact that the city is in a terrible situation. Back in 2014, more than 40 billion people were the debt consolidation that affected the city, and compared to that, in 2019 more than 20 billion people were handed over to the current city leadership by the Fidesz city leaders, so we can say that this is your fault that the city of Pécs is in such a difficult situation. Congressman Varga mentioned seriously delayed infrastructure investments, motorway constructions. I don't want to get too far away from the subject, but you promised to extend the M6 motorway to the Croatian border by 2018. It's 2021 compared to this, and there's not even a single cut. Similarly, the start of the extension of the M60 motorway to the border was also promised to start from two directions until 2018. Well, I can tell you that nothing has happened in this regard, because you've practically taken it off, so it's not in your medium-term plans, either. Well, going back to this budget that we have just submitted, there is basically a lack of face-to-face with the situation of the smallest settlements, the situation in the countryside, the terrible condition and deterioration of the basic infrastructure in the countryside, and there is no solution to that in this proposed budget amendment. There is a very, very serious item here I have talked about this many times, and I think that even in the budget debate last year I asked Mr. State Secretary about this in particular, there has been a serious, very, very long time, far from the debt and problem that existed before the 2010 government change, this is a terrible state of water utilities, so we can say that the water utility network has practically come to the brink of collapse. In the summer of last year, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán acknowledged the need for a thousand billion-dollar scale in order to improve, maintain and replace the infrastructure needed to ensure the most important public service. At the time, the Prime Minister promised that the EU development funds and the reconstruction fund would actually be spent on this very important task in a thousand billion-dollar scale. We have just seen these plans made by the government, which must be sent by the end of April. This lacks a solution to this problem. If we look at the amending budget, we can't even see a slight shift in this. I would ask Mr Secretary of State what source the government intends to resolve this very important issue, because the government has already acknowledged at the highest level that this is a problem of a thousand billion-dollar magnitude. Where is the purpose of the solution? Similarly, in the case of municipalities, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how he sees this. So, in the face of the situation of the municipalities, you can expect to see the budget for next year soon, in early May, I understand that you will submit what the municipalities should expect. The settlements below 25,000 automatically receive compensation, the ones over 25,000, we can say the big nothing. Obviously, they'll be one by one with the government-led cities, providing some kind of development aid. But what should the municipalities expect to do in terms of their operation, basic and mandatory tasks? Vane has the intention of the government to make such agreements a condition or to parallel the nationalisation of certain municipal assets or municipal tasks. So would such a plan deprive municipalities of certain tasks, public tasks, and then accordingly property and other revenue? What should the municipalities expect? What can they do in this situation when there are such uncertainties, when there is no clear solution, and the municipalities need to put a budget on the table? What can they expect, when will the government finally decide what to offer? This is also a specific question. Similarly, and this has already been referred to by my fellow Members, the Prime Minister, a long time ago, has said that a nation can be conquered in two ways, with swords and debt. What is the opinion of the Secretary of State of China that, in a one-year perspective, a very strong vulnerability and indebtedness appear towards China? Here we talked about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. We don't know exactly, it could be $650-700 billion in debt to China. We do not even know the specific amount, nor do we know the details of the conditions and obligations that this entails for the Hungarian State. It is very clear here, by the way, that we have learned in the last few weeks, and Minister Palkovics has confirmed that a hundred billion-dollar loan is being taken to build the campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest, and they are talking about taking such a 450 billion loan, yet again there is nothing to know about the conditions. What do you think, Mr Secretary of State, compared to the Prime Minister's earlier statement, of this situation, that you are making Hungary incredibly vulnerable to China? Furthermore, and here, my fellow Members have mentioned the amazing process, which we have seen today's very eloquent examples of, by the way, a huge wave of outsourcing has taken place on public property. A significant part of higher education has already been outsourced to private foundations. Today, a lot of trust funds have been decided and wealth allocation. So we're guessing a thousand-billion-dollar scale of what we've only voted on today. Does the government intend to take any further measures like this, so they want to go in this direction in the short one year, which is back to the election, that they want to outsource other huge public assets to private foundations? Or what direction do you see, what direction do you see, Secretary of State? I think it's important to see this again. How can a budget be planned at all? How can some kind of strategic thinking be enforced if these documents are basically classified? I don't know, for example, the Secretary of State has seen such documents as the return on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, what is the guarantee of exploitation, what is going to happen about it, or what is being kept from you? That's a very interesting and catchy question, I think. What, though, is expected for such brutal investments in the next period, and what else is to be expected? So does the Prime Minister have another of these cherished dreams, more gigantic investments, and how, for example, did my fellow Member Daniel Z. Karpát mention the question of credit from the Russians in connection with the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? We can see that the project is dying in every way. So if we look back at a period two years ago, when the new reactors were estimated to start up, it was further away than it was before, so it seems that it is constantly moving further and further away year after year, and there is increasing uncertainty. On the other hand, it is the fact that Hungary has become incredibly vulnerable and indebted to Russia and China. How can you plan under such circumstances, Mr. Secretary? I'm very interested in your professional position. I will continue in a next speech. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-115	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group.
u2021-04-27-116	I salute you, fellow Members. Mr President, thank you for the floor. I only want to deal with pension matters in my speech, and I also try to do so briefly. Look, I now say from budget year to budget year every time that this inflation-following pension increase is a scam of the century. [[16.50]] Last time, I justified that there is practically nothing else going on here than a miserablely low pension last year, and Viktor Orbán assures him that he will continue living miserablely with little money, because he will only increase his pension by the extent of the deterioration of the money. Last year, when the budget debate was held, I also spoke, and I am typically speaking on social and pension policy issues, and I also said, fellow Members, that it is obvious that inflation will be higher than in the draft budget law submitted by the government, because by reading background documents, one could see that the National Bank was already counting on a different inflation rate than what was adopted here in Parliament. That's one of the things I wanted to remember. Secondly, I see that since 2017, the net wage growth has been drastically reduced by pensions, and consequently, in society there is an accumulation of so much tension that pension increases that were subsequently adjusted in no-vember cannot compensate for these situations and tensions. I would like to note that last year's inflation figures, let's say, compared to January, were not a single month where the inflation rate of food would have been below 7 percent. Obviously, then we can see that those who live on few pensions and have to spend a significant amount of their pension on everyday living are in an extremely difficult situation. In practice, pensioners loaned to the government for one year, and in a very gracious manner, as required by law, the government repaid all of them retroactively in November. I bring these cases here and bring them here because the inflation figures in March clearly showed me that I took notes for another speech, here, look, the oil has increased by 21,3% from March to March, so from the perspective of a year, it has increased by 21,3%. , flour by 8.2, sugar by 7.6, rice by 6.8, eggs by 6.4, and even work meals by twice as high as the inflation rate of the population as a whole, increased by 6.6 percent last year. I go back to how drastically pensions are cut off from wages; and I focus only on this government cycle, but I have just noted that in 17 there was a terrible break, because in 17 the pension increase that pensioners received compared to net wage growth, hold on, there was more than five times the difference, so wages increased five times more than pensioners received. In 18, this government cycle had four times the difference in terms of wage growth, more than four times in 2019 and more than two times in 2020. That's one thing. Secondly, in recent years there has not been almost a quarter, but a spring or autumn session where opposition parties have not submitted any initiative, parliamentary decision proposal or bill to settle pensions. We have long asked for a return to the mixed indexation, and even most opposition parties specifically demand the Swiss indexation, including ourselves. Think about it, if the Swiss indexation had been applied, say, since the beginning of the 2018 government cycle, then a 7.2% increase in pension should have been made in 18 against 3 per cent, a 9 per cent increase in 19 against 3.4 per cent, and a 7 per cent increase in 2020 against roughly 4 per cent pension. They prefer to use the issue of average pensions, and I am also a fan of the median pension, so that we can refer to it when we want to justify something with arguments. The median is not the average, so there are as many below it, but, dear fellow Members, let the average pension be. If the Swiss indexation had been applied in recent years, the average pension rate would now be 175 thousand forints compared to the average pension of roughly 150 thousand forints. And I think that this would be the truly acceptable and socially acceptable one. It is no coincidence that the rate of poverty among pensioners has increased drastically. In 2010, the poverty rate of pensioners did not reach 5 per cent, and this became almost 15 per cent by 2020. Fellow Members! Come on, Mr. President, I didn't ask for permission for the illustration, but I printed out a diagram made by KSH. [[He's showing it to me.]] It is clear that there are two major fractures, after 14 there was a drastic increase, at 16 there was another increase in the rate of poverty, and after 18 again. I stress that this is based on the statistical data prepared by the HCSO. The other thing that is worth mentioning here, my fellow Members: you must know that according to the statistical and sociological methodology, we are dealing with decylis and tithes. In 2010 there were 26 thousand pensioners in the lowest income tenth. They're the ones with the lowest income. In the tenth decylis, they belong to the highest income group. Now, hold on, there were 26 thousand pensioners in 2010, and that went up to 270,000 last year. You understand, don't you, fellow Members? It was a 1 4th increase! There are so many elderly retired people in the lowest income tenths over the next ten years. The technique of the inflation-following pension increase has led to this. The other thing I wanted to mention, and I'm still here at the so-called Swiss indexation, is that recently there was a motion for the MSZP fraction before the Welfare Committee, and we said that it would be necessary in addition to the need for a 3 percent pension increase in January because this year, in January, pensioners received at least the same amount of this increase. Please, it would be much fairer, because the people at the bottom are placed in a more favourable position by this kind of distribution technique, and we also supported it for a reason, and we submitted these motions to the Parliament. Fellow Members! There are two things I would like to mention. One is that, in fact, this situation would be really fair if the government had brought here a correction programme for the amendment of the budget law, which is about catching up on very low pensions. This has also been initiated for many years by the majority of opposition groups, because it is unacceptable that someone is working through a life, working 40 to 45 years, and having a pension so humiliatingly low that they can only create unsatisfying living conditions for themselves. Last year, I also refer to KSH as the minimum livelihood of the single-member pension was 105 thousand forints. Fellow Members! Over 600,000 pensioners have a pension of less than 100,000 forints. I'm telling you, 600,000 pensioners don't even have a pension of 100,000 forints! And I'm not talking about the part-pension that you get from abroad after a few years, and you get from home after a few years, I'm not talking about them, I'm talking about them, but whose pension is under 100 thousand forints. This is unacceptable! That is why I think that the government of the future must focus on catching up on low pensions. We had a proposal for this, and I repeat it here, because for the sake of historical loyalty, at least one should say in the record: I would consider it fair if at least 50% of the net minimum wage were to reach the minimum pension rate for old age. This HUF 28 500 has remained unchanged for 14 years. This is not the tragedy in itself, because it is unnecessary to argue that many or few, 28 500 forints cannot be allocated for a month, ready, but that a lot of social transfers are assigned to this. Consequently, these benefits do not increase either, because this is concrete, from maternity allowance to maternity benefit to maternity benefit. [[17.00]] On the other hand, the need to return to mixed indexation should not be allowed to reduce pensions so drastically from wages and net wages. As for the government of the future, tomorrow we will vote on the case of the disabled. Look! I've never seen a law as humiliating as it was presented in my political career. They're gonna spot these people's eyes at 500,000 forints. Think about it: if someone lost their supply after 2012 or changed their supply by, say, looting 50,000 forints a month, they owe that man 5 million 400 thousand forints, and now they tell him to give up all your rights in exchange for 500,000 forints! No, I think that full compensation should be given, full compensation should be given to those affected, and where the client in question is dead, heirs must provide this benefit. And the third is now that yes, there are different techniques to see how low pensions can be caught up. We also had a proposal for this, and I repeat here that the so-called 13th month pension, which is not a pension, is because the extra contribution from a budget, which has nothing to do with the length of service or the rate of contribution, should therefore be paid by all pensioners to the same amount. No matter where Apcon lives or lives in Zahony, regardless of whether he lives in Zaránk or lives in Nagykanizsa, bread, milk, flour and food oil are the same for everyone in the store. Consequently, the 13th month pension as a bonus, which is not a pension, will have to be paid in the same amount in the future. We have such proposals, that is our opinion. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience.
u2021-04-27-117	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, DK Group.
u2021-04-27-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no debate between us that the economic and social impacts of the corona virus epidemic oblige us to redesign certain points of the budget, but it is very much the method that you have chosen, honourable pro-government colleagues. I would like to tell you that the otherwise opposition-led Committee on Budgets is trying to meet at least every two weeks. We invited experts to this committee who were ministers in the conservative political community and who were ministers of social democratic-liberal governments. These people sat at a table in order to try to overcome the challenge that lies ahead together. In this, you, my honourable members of the Government, were not partners. In fact, since the opposition could not be accused of not being constructive, we have put a number of measures on the table that you have not only swept off but have made extremely cynical remarks. Let me bring to you, for example, the Budget Committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen, when the mayors of the county-righted cities appeared here to you, but you have indicated well in advance, in the person of Vice-President Lajos Szűcs, that you do not wish to listen to the mayors of the county-righted cities, in order to listen to those municipal leaders, honourable Members, who are as close as possible to the challenges, who know how much it costs to sterilize street furniture, you know what kind of community space needs to be closed down, and you know which families are in such a situation that they need urgent social assistance. Dear majority of the Government Parties, You have turned your back on these people, just as you have done this week, for example, for paramedic workers or social workers, who have been told that they do not want to provide a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000 from the central budget. This was also an opposition proposal, and it would have been good to look together for a solution to how we will overcome the crisis. This has failed you, as opposed to many of the leaders of the free world. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-04-27-119	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we now have a speech from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to deal with the social field a little bit. But as a guide, I would also say to my fellow Member, Mrs Potocska, that when we started negotiating the budget for 2021 in Parliament at the beginning of last summer, at the end of spring, we could already see that the opposition warned the pro-government majority that it should not be submitted in this way, because we do not see it yet, after the first wave, we did not even suspect that the second wave would be of this magnitude, and then we did not even suspect that there would be a terrible third wave of the epidemic, and that the government had planned the budget in essence that it had not taken these aspects into account at all times. Since then, we have seen that the budget has been constantly changed without parliamentary control, and we woke up several times in the morning to spend hundreds of billions of forints overnight, from one day to the next, and we have seen measures that were not specifically designed or spent to help Hungarian families, but essentially to outsource state assets and support a certain circle from week to week, month to month. The economic crisis, the social crisis and the health crisis caused by the epidemic would have assumed that by all means and by all means, the government would strive to help workers, families, entrepreneurs, municipalities in distress, but we can see that this has not happened in the last few weeks or months. We thought it would also strengthen the social field, health care, but we can see that this is not what they have taken the initiative to do. A little better opening up the social area, the amending budget in the social field mainly includes changes in relation to the norm of certain social services in the context of the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in February 2021. In addition, some other changes are included in the proposal. With regard to the nursery at work, the rules on day care will be applied and the rules on taking care of beneficiaries will be changed during the emergency period. Here, Mr. Secretary, allow me to insert a sentence. In February, it was announced, if I remember correctly, that Katalin Novák announced at the beginning of February that the three and more children's fees would be abolished, and then they could go to the nursery for free. Katalin Novak forgot to announce that the kindergarten award that you introduced was canceled by the big family. I asked you a written question about how many families this form of support will affect, but unfortunately, we have been trying to get any data from the government over the past few years, and we are not getting any meaningful answers. It is noted that other support for the social and child welfare tasks of local authorities may also be used to support holiday catering. I asked a written question in this, too, because I would have been very curious to know how many children used social meals at home during the first wave of digital education, because they had the opportunity, because we are talking about a huge item here. Everyone had to be in digital education during the first wave, and then in the second and third waves, the high school students, the high school children. Here, too, I asked questions about how much the government has saved by not having children in the institution, and they didn't know or they didn't want to use this service in some way, but I didn't get an answer either. Furthermore, as regards support for the crèche, mini-cradle title, wage support is defined in the crèche institutions on the basis of principles that better match the number of professional workers to be employed under the legislation. [[17.10]] In accordance with the rules in force, in the case of domestic assistance, the beneficiary shall not be taken into account from the point of view of the aid for the day which is also receiving daytime care. An exception is given to day care for patients with dementia. In addition, it should be noted that the HUF 224 billion appropriation for housing subsidies is increasing to HUF 344 billion. The MSZP has already indicated that a 3-percent pension increase will not be enough, and my colleague Korózs has already spoken about this before me. Given that 85 percent of social workers receive the guaranteed minimum wage and the minimum wage as wages, it is understandable that almost all social services are subject to change. The explanatory statement shows that increasing educational and social standards requires HUF 40 billion. Compared to this, there will be a surplus of 120 billion housing subsidies, plus a tax reduction of 110 billion forints, and the additional expenditure of Paks II investment will cost HUF 60 billion. Interestingly, however, there are services for which there seems to be no need for an increase, or only the government does not consider it important. These are social appropriations, norms, which have been left out of the budget amendment: social assistance, one of the elements of home care, support services, community basic care for psychiatric patients, basic support, day-to-day institutional provision of homeless people, day-to-day child care, day-to-day child care, day-to-day wage support, supplementary support for teachers in childcare facilities, social sector unitary allowance and health supplement, crisis centre, halfway house and secret asylum. Although support for victims of domestic violence seems to be increasing and additional forms of support have been announced, I hope this is also because every statement shows that domestic violence has dramatically increased during the epidemic. We should deal with this more, because we are talking about a very sensitive subject anyway, that if any legislative amendment comes before Parliament, but now during the epidemic situation, I think that we should pay much more attention to Hungarian families. Despite the recalculation of inflation, there is no more access to social assistance, care premiums, support to replace employment, unemployment benefits. As we have repeatedly submitted it as an amendment by the Hungarian Socialist Party during the epidemic, the government does not want to spend any more on raising the family allowance, children, children and maternity support. In fact, during the epidemic situation, I think that one of the most terrible things is how many times I personally filed it with my fellow Members, that we solve the problem of having a confirmed infection with Covid, or of being quarantined, and getting out of work, the state will grant them 100 percent sick or a 100 percent absence fee. This, let's say, has been promised to the teachers' staff. I asked a lot of questions in this, too, and I don't know if the Secretary of State knows that we have been constantly given the answers that we have been given to review, there is a system through which we will examine whether he has actually been infected at work, and then he will subsequently receive 40 percent of his lost income. It is quite cynical that, in months' time, someone will assess it and decide that it has actually been infected at work. I asked you a written question so that you could tell me how many people required this follow-up examination and how many people obtained this 100 percent allowance and how many people were rejected. Secretary of State, your government can't tell you that. Even though we turned to the EMMI, even though we turned to Mihály Varga, even though we turned to Gergely Gulyás, they said that they could not provide us with such data. It is quite outrageous what you have done over the past period, that we wanted to get any data from the government, and this could relate to infection data, sick pay data, social meals, we really have not been able to obtain anything as opposition representatives, we have not been given a good answer to anything. We have tabled a lot of amendments on how it could have been done, because, in fact, this budget amendment also starts with a lot of lines, its justification, just to quote, is the government's fundamental objective to protect people's lives and health, while at the same time helping to preserve jobs, to reduce economic damage and to restart the economy. Well, it's written like that, it's very nice, but the reality is quite different. We have said and tabled our amendments many times because it is very important to have a 100 percent pension because many people go to work sick because they simply cannot do so that they do not receive 40 percent of their income and salary. Today, hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary can't save money, can't save their income, and just almost die if they lose 40 percent of their income. So it was constantly swept off the table by the pro-government representatives, and they did not take note of it. I have repeatedly initiated that if mothers who carry their children under their heart during the epidemic decide that they want to protect their own health and the health of their children, give them the 100 percent absence fee. Not sick pay, absence fee, because there's a difference between the two. They swept him off the table. You are proclaiming it continuously, and now you will announce again from billions of forints that family-friendly government is taking place in Hungary. The budget would not have been an item to protect the lives of a few tens of thousands of mothers and children. We couldn't have gotten to this point that such an opposition... Even I would have agreed to take it by their own name, Lőrinc Nacsa could have submitted it, I would have been very happy to support it, but at least they would have voted for it if it was so important to protect Hungarian people, and I say it is not an item for a budget. We've put in a lot of modifications, we've drawn the government's attention to a lot of things. I do respect Mr Secretary of State, we are always here, and I appreciate Mr Secretary of State, one of the State Secretarys who comes in fairly, prepares, sits through any budget proposal. In fact, he may be the only secretary of state who is still willing to answer our question, not to wait for the very end and say the criticism and send us to the warmer climate, but to give us a chance to argue in the meantime. I appreciate that very much, Mr. Secretary of State. But what your government has done over the last year, citing an epidemic, can't be said to be family-friendly governance and helping families. When we saw it and the Prime Minister has repeatedly said how we will follow good examples from abroad, we have not been able to follow one good example. How many times have we demanded that there be continuous testing in Hungary, even so that we can protect the workers, the Hungarian families, so that they know when they will be infected, how many times the importance of contact research has been said! How many times we have said that this is what they do in the neighbouring countries, how they support workers, how much wage subsidies are given to neighbouring countries so that they can keep jobs and protect families, because unfortunately we have to say that we do not know how much longer this will be with us. We can't say that tomorrow this will be over, or the day after tomorrow, or that there won't be a fourth wave. And we don't learn from our own mistakes. We see that we do not accept any amendments with good intentions. I do not know that in recent times we have been able to make any proposals, there was only one on behalf of Dr. Zsolt Molnár last week, but it was not accepted as an opposition proposal, but it was brought in as its own, without almost 100 percent text amendment, but what we saw was basically what we submitted on the basis of the epidemic situation, nothing, nothing in the world, Mr. Secretary of State, did not accept the governing party. [[17.20]] Believe me, we don't just sit down and figure it out, we get the letters, we get the phone calls, we get the notifications, we listen to the people. It's not true that only people who don't see what to do come to us. We tell and submit everyday problems to change the law. Unfortunately, you have not accepted any of this in recent years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-27-121	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2021-04-27-122	Mr President, Dear House, I have earned an undersecretary's eyebrow during the debate, so I would like to open it deeper: when we talk about housing subsidies and home creation, how did the hundreds of years of average come out that indicates the change in the Hungarian real estate stock. With the fact that basically the property area is also a market, a market in which one supply shortage has developed over the last ten years, very, very few newly built apartments are created and even fewer apartments are transferred, and therefore, according to market conditions, this scarcity has caused an explosion in property prices on the one hand, and also resulted in the launch of rent prices, against which this government has not supported. There have been years since 2010, when less than 8,000 new-built properties have been transferred across the country. This data should be assessed in the light of the fact that the real estate assets of Hungary can be estimated at 4.5 million real estates in the order of magnitude, and there was a period during this 11-year Regning, when we compared the two data, i.e. the new builder and the entire property, we found that the total real estate stock would be replaced in 248 years if so few new builders were transferred. Let us be a little benevolent and consider one of the years of government that has risen above the others, this could be, say, the year 2020, where we find that about 28,000 new-built properties have been transferred. This means that according to last year's data, the property stock is exchanged about 159 years ago, but let's not forget, Mr. Secretary of State is also an economist, there are indeed seasonal effects and there are effects typical of that year that have not been and will not be later. For example, the third trick with a 5-percent flat tax to introduce the reduced VAT is to abolish, introduce, erase and now introduce it again, caused a wave in this market as well as in terms of the number of new-built properties. Therefore, it is no exaggeration between 159 and 254, say, to set a 200-year-old average of how long it will take to replace the entire housing stock under your governance, based on the number of newly built properties. In the meantime, we see that this family support and home creation system is both chemically pure neoliberal and cruel. We see that with a ministerial salary, and I don't want to be personal, but it's a matter of fact, a ministerial salary can be used to obtain ten million-dollar support for either the village CSOK or the previous cottage, holiday house or Balaton construction. Let us point out what the person concerned has said and that he has promised and may repay the aid, but the plans are not as he stated, but the aid scheme still gives rise to this. However, I say that neither the Secretary of State nor I are in need of similar amounts of support, while the young Hungarian in typical situations can expect a much smaller amount of support, if the intermediary bank so believes, to start a family life and to have children. This pure cruelty, therefore, shines from this system, that the greater volume of support is not going towards the needy, but towards the lucky ones. I'm not suggesting that we take subsidies from people. No! But let's rationalize this system. I have another problem. This is that, from the direction of the European Union, I say once again, not unilaterally and not as divinely as a blessing, but some of the funds that could have been drawn could indeed have been used for home-building purposes, and also for the residential sector. But Hungary's Government made a strategic and philosophical decision: it only intended to use it for the buildings and modernisation of public institutions, and it did not open these subsidies to the residential segment. However, a comprehensive energy modernisation support system in Hungary could bring amazing results. If we could only help the population to make these investments and make the cost of the saved energy utility a repayment, and say, in three or four years, the citizens will pay the same amount, but he has half of the rent compared to the previous one, we have already achieved a huge result. That's what you guys say, and what you're saying is that the best way to save money is not to use unnecessary energy. In this spirit, these funds could indeed be opened to similar investments. We are confused that the Government of Hungary did not do this and did not want to do it. We see that relatively poor demographic indicators are also linked to housing difficulties. Many young Hungarians simply don't know where to start their lives and the entry points have been kicked out by Fidesz-KDNP. Many Hungarian young people get out of their apartments by concluding a state-supported housing savings contract, which later became a CSOK part of them when they collected enough money and took on a bank loan, which became a private home for a damn long time. We managed to kick out the leg so that with state aid to save housing, someone could collect a share of the bank loan. Now the only person who can take out a bank loan is someone who will have this money at his disposal, with family help or, again, with years of non-state support. It is therefore necessary to support these young people, to open up resources to those who need it, to transform the support system, to see that there is a shortage of supply in this market. In this way, the real estate market could also be put in order, and the old mantra, Mr. Secretary of State, is a government-based lease building program with qualified Hungarian contractors, which would provide a continuous order stock for domestic companies. The multiplier effect of this is invaluable, and within a year or two, the budget would bring back the investment costs up to the last HUF. It doesn't make sense that you have good experts sitting with you, and you can certainly see that these are profitable investments, and you're not going to start. Of course, we could also say, I say that in a year's time, hopefully, a national unit government will stand up and start working out a rental program, but I would very much like to see action taken in the meantime, because this is not a pro-government or opposition logic, the Hungarian future and Hungarian interests require us to move away from the current situation on the housing front. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-27-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2021-04-27-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to continue where I finished my speech as a lead speaker, which I recall for a minute, in the focus of criticism it was, in any case, that, in the absence of the underlying macroeconomic analysis, without any calculations, the government uses the budget uncontrolled, giving only the governmental thinking space. This is due to the fact that a significant part of the expenditure used or incurred has nothing to do with crisis management, and therefore the effectiveness of this crisis management is not demonstrated. I would like to give some examples to the contrary. We have received from the Ministry of Finance the numbers used to calculate, and the essence of which is that, in planning a 7.5 percent deficit, inflation will certainly be higher with a 4.3 percent increase. One important consequence of this is, for example, the need to change the Stability Act, because without it, let us say, to contradict their own legislation. Therefore, this is one of the important consequences that I think we need to discuss. In the second row, I mention the very many editions that we have collected in the table in three thematic groups, where otherwise the epidemic has nothing to do with spending, overpriced and otherwise even not to be done now, which, in relation to last year, has a lasting impact on this year. [[17 .30]] Therefore, as an immediate measure necessary to deal with the economic crisis... Mr State Secretary, I would like to point out once again that the opposition has a proposal of 21 elements which is among the immediate measures necessary for economic crisis management, including the cessation of the Budapest-Belg-rad railway; the preparation and construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which has already raised capital by HUF 45 billion, and which is what they are going to do this year, despite the fact that we have repeatedly called attention not to do so; and I am not talking about the construction of the motoGP track or the World Hunting Exhibition. So we are giving further examples that the expenditure that you are overspending on the parliamentary mandate has been spent much more, and that is why this year's further planning is unacceptable. In this way, we can get to the point that, if we look at Hungary's performance, whether in relation to or in the light of what I have just mentioned, and if we read this in an international perspective, then, contrary to what the Secretary of State has said, Hungary's performance last year is very weak regionally. We have countries that are far better performing in our environment, here in the Central European region, and for this reason, if there is unnecessary expenditure, if the performance of the Hungarian economy is underachieved... I understand that the Secretary of State will refer to the fact that there is a 6 percent decline on the European average, only 5 percent on us, but otherwise, if we look at other countries, they have done better than us. And if, moreover, you have not turned this resource on the economy and not on the people, then you have to account for what the money has actually gone to, and I say that to support those friends, to loyal ownership circles who, by the way, want to support you politically. And from this point forward, what we heard here yesterday from one of the Undersecretaries is that, since we do not want this spending to continue in the issuance of the now exponentially rising European Union funds, we do need to negotiate with the opposition, negotiate with the opposition, and engage in a social dialogue about what, in essence, a new Marshall aid will be used for. What did your colleague say? The dog barks, the caravan moves. That's literally what he said yesterday. So I think that, in this way, this is partly unacceptable as a statement, as an opinion. The people whose lives this is about, even if, according to the new news, there are parts of European resources that you do not want to use, but I note quietly, I conclude that what you cannot spend quickly at investment level is not asked for, but otherwise, in terms of future protection, you will be forced to continue to speed up investment, and this is one of the reasons for increasing your deficit. Moreover, they do so with such a political commitment that they know that, by the way, the European Union, let us say, can express concerns about your spending, on the other hand, you will advance and, as I mentioned earlier, they will pay these funds as an advance, because I would say that this resource must be paid as soon as possible with a previous use of the word "parallel" before the elections. This is resolved in such a way that we remember it, by the way, and let us not ignore it here a few weeks ago, the President of the State Audit Office pointed out that there is indeed a serious risk to what you are doing in this form. Here he himself said in the debate that I am quoting his colleague here again, who said that there was a parliamentary debate on the use of EU funds. I'm sorry. On whose initiative? If opposition parties didn't demand that they spend at least half a day, a few hours, and report what they were going to spend 18 000 billion forints on, this wouldn't have happened anyway. And even if you spread your hand, my fellow Member, I still say this, there is no meaningful dialogue on this, I say silently, nor in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but in the Committee on Budgets which I have led, it was voted down by members of the government to put this on the agenda. Where else are we supposed to talk about this if we're looking for a commission like this? And they refused to do so, but in doing so, they continue to act in a manner that you will make a fine decision. And by the way, he says back that the dog is barking, the caravan is moving, but what you're doing in this regard is unacceptable to me. So that they do not get away so easily, I quote the President of the State Audit Office of Hungary, from a protocol, so that there is no doubt about this:. The difference in time between the advance payment and the actual reimbursement of EU aid for development projects is a result of the combined government objectives of speeding up improvements, of the time needed for accounting with the European Commission and of the complexity of the EU projects funded. As a result of these factors, the timely receipt of revenue related to EU grants becomes uncertain. As a result of volatility and temporal variability, the central budget faces a significant risk to the cash flow balance.... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary of State has said that the difference that you and the Budget Council have said, let's just say, to draw attention to the difference of almost HUF 2000 billion, is what we see here? That this is gonna be the one, by the way? That, by the way, you have to spend it and spend it, even though you don't know what for yet? I say that if you really want to help the economy, and if, let's just say, we are in a state where, as a result of countercyclical policy and economic policy, the state is now spending to keep the economy alive, then for this part of you, I think, as I said before, that you can talk about it, you have to talk about it, you have to stimulate the economy in this sense, but not by financing your own buddies, and not by trying to save social dialogue, you don't want to talk about it, you just go after your own head. And then I'll refer back to how the crisis management happened, and once they dragged the car around, and once they dragged it, and by the way, we're not going forward, we're going left, we're going right. Well, that's why, I think, the budget planning that you've brought in for this year is just as momentous, which you can say was a good idea at the time, and then it goes on. The consequence of this will be that again they will not focus on people, but will cement the amount of money that would give Hungary, not just to me, our children, our grandchildren. I have yet to ask Mr Secretary of State an important question, because he has not mentioned this before, and I cannot find the place in the budget where, if the reduction of the social contribution tax this summer occurs, to which the government has previously committed, it will come from what cover or from what source, because it will be a significant source if it works. [[17.40]] Among the specific examples, I would like to mention one more thing in any case, which we have here the other day, is that 0.6 per cent for pensioners. raises will be proposed during the year. In a sense, I am glad that, compared to last year, the government has decided that, if so, inflation will be higher than we originally planned, then it is worth or necessary to say to pensioners that they do not advance and lend to the budget, but that they can get it sooner. Now, last year, the government did not feel this way, now that we are approaching the elections, this feeling has grown in you; it's not really a problem, I'm glad of it, but please, Mr. Secretary, help us and point out where we can find the funding in this budget. Moreover, it will also be necessary to return to this again in the autumn in the event of an increase or further inflation. So, in conclusion, I can tell you that I find the way you are dealing with this situation rather cynical, which is why, or as a result, it is more accurate that this year's budget amendment does not give people the opportunity to make a difference. What I see is that the investment rate will continue to increase, and that further concrete columns and piles will be built instead of helping people who are the most important value to us, whether they are pensioners, students or workers. Because helping your immediate family members, your political family members, is in itself little, and it is not worth calling crisis management. Therefore, we will not support this draft law and we do not recommend it to anyone. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-27-125	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-27-126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, At least now there was no anti-vaccination Congressman Varju, as in the morning on ATV, when he was again chasing against Eastern vaccines, because he said that Eastern vaccines were false solutions. Thank God the congressman didn't pull this card out this time. We can remember that in the 2008 budget debate, as Parliament's minutes perfectly preserve the speeches of the people, in the 2008 budget debate László Varju said that next year the country will have a strict budget, but despite all the alarms, there is no need for further cuts. This is what László Varju said at the end of 2007 regarding the 2008 budget, since he has been a fallen secretary of state for the economy, as he said that there will be no austerity, only false news, alarms that there will be austerity, and then they took away the 13th month's wages, took away the 13th month's pension. Many public tasks have been handed over to the municipalities, but no resources have been allocated to them, people, families and municipalities have been thrown into debt, and more and more money has been taken from Hungarian families raising children. [[To Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] Madam Congresswoman had not yet spoken with such a loud voice of concern for families. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Both families and municipalities have been pushed into debt spirals and unemployment has been increased to an astonishing extent. With noble simplicity, hundreds of thousands of people were left on the side of the road. This was your crisis management then, that was what László Varju said there would be no austerity. I would ask Congresswoman what you have supported in our submission over the last year in connection with crisis management; because you have not supported the extraordinary legal order, you have not supported the credit moratorium, you have not supported wage support. You are here listing a few proposals for a resolution that you have submitted, and we voted against or did not support, let us say, in committee, but also look at what you have supported, Congresswoman. Because you have not supported the fundamental steps of crisis management, the necessary, essential steps and proposals. So, if you ask us to take account of the support for proposals, then let it be some kind of reciprocity, because the measures taken by the government in the framework of an extraordinary legal order and then they came to Parliament, whether in connection with the extension of the extraordinary legal order, or in connection with the law on the protection against the coronal virus, are not supported by you. These measures, support for investments, wage support, wage increases are covered here, as Mr Secretary of State has said. We know exactly what your crisis management looked like. This year, in 2021, Klára Dobrev told us what crisis management looked like in 2008-2009; you saved the banks, but not the people. This is what one of your leaders, Klára Dobrev, said: "The banks were saved in 2008-2009, not the people. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Until this moment, we can say that we have had a lot of difficulties: the whole country, the whole of Europe, the whole world is struggling with a lot of difficulties, but the crisis management that the government has announced has been effective, but it is not over; we need to continue. If you look at the number of jobs, only 66,000 more jobs were created in March than in February, 66,000 more jobs in March compared to February. The figures and the data show that we will regain that strength, because the Hungarian economy is in a strong, healthy state, and not with unemployment rising to 12 percent in your time. Effective crisis management is shown by unemployment figures, which are much better than the EU average and much better than the average euro area. An effective crisis management is also shown by the fact that, although the economic performance of all European countries has obviously decreased in the last year, but we have less than the EU average, by more than 1 percent, I think this is an achievement, honourable ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that these are facts, which you like to keep quiet. That is an eternal debate between us, you bring me here, Mr Keresztes and Congressman Varju, a lot of people have talked about this investment here. You do realize that these investments create a lot of jobs, don't you? These investments are good for the local people, create jobs, provide jobs for companies, and provide livelihoods for many, many families. These investments can be made precisely because the government has decided not to pursue your policy of aid, this monstrosity called basic income, which you are talking about here regularly, and the aid policy that was typical of you before 2010, and that is why unemployment was above 12 percent, but that, with job creation, investment, technological growth and continuous expansion, those companies should also gain competitive advantage during the crisis period and to preserve jobs. A number of MEPs have said here about socialisation and social consultation, which cannot be called a fact in the context of the European Union's recovery fund and the next seven-year development cycle. You say that, Mr President, that, by the way, I have sat here and debated the debate that you have initiated. It is right that you have initiated such an initiative, why you should not initiate it, and we have argued about it, and I think there have been important arguments on both sides. Why it's a problem that you initiated this, I don't understand. It has also been said many times in that debate, so you now consciously deny this, that more than 15,000 experts, potential candidates and different stakeholders have consulted this programme within the government. All cities with county rights, all associations of local governments, churches, chambers, professional organisations, various universities or research institutes and associations of municipalities in any way received a letter of formal consultation. More than 500 such letters were issued, over 500 events, offline and online events were discussed with 15 thousand experts or potential candidates by government representatives who might be affected by this recovery package, who sent them in some way, adding their own comments. The fact that you say that there has been some sort of unconventional design of this huge package here and that you will now submit it to the European Commission is not true with a noble simplicity. The fact that your mayors didn't bother to send these letters back filled out is that your mayor didn't realize that such a letter had arrived in his mailbox, that your mayors couldn't comment on this letter by the way, and they couldn't send their professional comments, and there, I'm sorry, look for the error themselves, not in the government, because this negotiation has taken place. [[17.50]] What I still don't understand is how you can bring here, how much some vaccines cost and what the goods are, how you price life, I just can't understand it, and I can't understand how you think there's a price worth a person's life with a vaccine, and there's a price that you don't think is worth. I can't accept this at all, and I can't support it. I think it's worth all the money to protect people's lives, which is why it would be good to stop their anti-vaccination campaign, now its sly version, and Congressman Varju on ATV wouldn't be upsetting Eastern vaccines even today, 27 April. I'm simply asking you not to play with the, with the hat on, with no cap, no game on. In half of their speeches, the problem has been that, in recent years, the government has not brought an additional budget here, and now it is bringing me here. Then decide what the problem is. In recent years, we have been able to hold it, and with the government's strict professional fiscal policy, we have been able to keep the government's figures submitted a year or a half ago, and otherwise the budget has been correctly and well implemented, and you have missed why there is no additional budget, and now you are saying that the government can bring such a supplementary budget here, and what is the point of all this anyway. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you cannot deny on the basis of the figures that the Hungarian crisis management has been effective and will continue to show its results. This is the result of the work of the Hungarian people, the work of Hungarian businesses, and the government's policy of convergence, based on investment and job creation, job preservation. The fact that you are trying to undermine this on a regular basis, I can't help but accept that you are doing this on a mere petty political basis. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-27-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I am taking advantage of the opportunity that we have here, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, who is an extremely well-informed pro-government Member, to see if he can answer some important questions for me. Referring back to the Member's speech, yes, it is welcome that, on the initiative of the LMP and with the support of opposition parties, we have been able to talk before the Parliament about the use of European Union development resources, the sad thing is that if the opposition does not do so, this will not happen. So the government did not feel it was their responsibility to bring this very important, nearly HUF 6,000 billion question in front of the Hungarian Parliament. Anyway, I'd like to ask you back. In recent days, we have learned from the press what plans the government cherishes, that the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest wants to build a campus out of hundreds of billions of forints of taxpayers. If we propose to discuss this before the Parliament, will you support it, Congressman? Or how's that gonna work? So hundreds of billions of forints can be spent at government level in a period of such a severe crisis, according to Chinese interests. You've already heard that this week the government wants to sign an agreement to make this a decided project, and they want to push it away until, say, a year later, there's a change of government, so you can't get out of the project. Is that the right thing to do, this responsible attitude? By the way, Congressman, don't you care about this? So how much information do you have as a Member of Parliament? Would you, for example, like to talk about plans for Fudan University, what hundreds of billions are being spent on, under what conditions and how will your superiors, your bosses, want to sign a contract with China? How much public wealth are you going to risk for this? In what way are Hungarian national interests exposed to Chinese interests? Is that what you're interested in, Your Honour? I just refer back to the fact that it is indeed, very right that we have been able to talk about development resources here, but let us not deny that this was not up to you, but on opposition factions. Next thing you know, they've been ruling since 2010. I think it is a little pathetic, Mr President, to quote Parliament's speeches in 2008 after 11 years of governance. More precisely, not only is it pathetic, but it shows that there is no better idea, or I don't know, they're trying to hide with it, trying to legitimise their own incompetence and their mistake by reaching back in 2008. But speaking of restrictions, honourable Member, can you expect to put an end to the brutal restrictions on local governments? What do you know, as an active pro-government representative, when will the government sit down with the mayors of opposition-led rural cities, when will they receive fair compensation? Is there any government intention to nationalise certain public tasks, to take away municipal property? In what way and what kind of support can local governments expect in this difficult situation, and will finally end the Orbán government's brutal and self-government austerity policy? Congressman! You said as a criticism that we are investing here, and you said that these investments create a great deal of jobs. We have talked about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project several times here in the Parliament. Honourable Congressman, Do you know so much about this investment, that it creates a lot of jobs? You voted in favour of this investment, which, together with everything, will mean nearly a thousand billion forints to Hungarian taxpayers, that is all your bosses have told you that Congressman Nacsa should vote for it because it creates a lot of jobs. Is that enough for you? Did you see the documents that were encrypted in front of me? Have you seen documents that cannot otherwise be sued from the Hungarian government? You spend 200 billion forints on this bullshit only in the two years of the crisis. , the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, with a cost of 175 thousand jobs. Congressman Nacsa, 175,000 jobs could be created in two years from this 200 billion forint. What's behind this? So the Budapest-Belgrád railway project aside from creating a lot of jobs, specifically more than 175 thousand? We know that the companies will receive orders, Lőrinc Mészáros's companies have already won these orders, the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros will make 300 billion HUF out of the entire project. We know that. You have encrypted these documents as part of one of your crisis management measures. That's pretty amazing. I'd like to ask you back, Congressman Nacsa, to Fudan University. How do you feel about spending 450, 500, 550 billion forints like this? Do you think it's okay for us to learn from the information leaked from the press that you want to spend more money on a campus in Budapest with the Hungarian taxpayers' money from the University of the Chinese Communist Party than you spend on full Hungarian higher education in a year? Do you think that's right? Is this worth it to the Hungarian voters? Is that the right government attitude? And now, regardless of whether or not a communist ideology is a university in its basic document, it doesn't matter whether you decide at government level hundreds of billions of people are completely proud to decide to sign it now, in fact, Parliament hasn't even heard the issue officially, we can only read it in the press, they want to push these decisions to a level that doesn't get out of it. Do you think this is right, Your Honour? (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I have one more question, and I really hope you'll answer that. The crisis management was a symbolic and completely shameful step, which I have already mentioned, that Lőrinc Mészáros receives HUF 18 billion of taxpayers' money even if he withdraws a dividend of EUR 11.5 billion from his construction companies on the other side. So here your national oligarchs are in such a position in huge quotes that, even in the worst crisis, they do not have to give up enrichment. So don't let Lőrinc Mészáros take a ton of dividends out of his construction companies, which, by the way, means that you have a huge dividend income due to a thousand-billion-dollar order, and even in this situation, you don't expect him to compensate for the massive revenue from the construction industry, let's say, his own hotel chain. No, you are making a decision that Hungarian taxpayers must make Ripper's enrichment sustainable even during a serious crisis, while you say that there is no HUF 86 billion in the budget to increase the unemployment benefit from three months to nine months. Dear Congressman Nacha, Do you think this is a fair crisis management? Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-129	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to welcome once again my fellow Members. We're gonna have two-minute comments. I would like to take the floor first from the group of the MSZP to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-04-27-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a very important professional question. T/15696 on the system of the European Union's own resources The general debate of the legislative proposal No. 1 has taken place, waiting for the final vote, Mr State Secretary, the final vote of this law has not come before Parliament this week. What do you know about when we're going to vote for this because it's pretty much affecting budget 21? Where are we now? We'll vote in three weeks? You do realize, Mr State Secretary, that Parliament is now only meeting every three weeks so that we can do meaningful work. Congressman Nacsa, because I'm telling you, this anti-vaccination is starting to grow a little over you: who was the minister who told us about our request and their submission when we asked to be tested continuously and tested free of charge, because it is very important for the defence that this is going into serious tax forints, and we cannot do that? [[18.00]] Who was that minister? Gergely Gulyás. He regrets the Hungarian people's defence tool that works everywhere in the world in the surrounding countries, so that they can control the epidemic, that they test it and constantly provide free quick tests for citizens. And then Gergely Gulyás says, "Come on, it's expensive." Look in the mirror once in a while. And stop this. It's not anti-vaccination. Who is now pissing off the Hungarian population against Western vaccines? The Hungarian governing parties! The whole profession, the profession of the world, not the Hungarian profession, was first written by Katalin Karikó... Now we are not proud of Katalin Karikó? ! Aren't you proud of him now? ! [[For signal:]] Well, it doesn't look like it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Stop it and do what you're supposed to do. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-04-27-131	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It's time for Congressman László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-27-132	Thank you very much. However, in continuing to think: indeed, our fellow Member Nacsa has drawn to you the fact that you are really anti-vaccination here; by making people lie, they are being deceived and therefore deterred from doing what is really in the best interests of all of us in this situation, to have as many citizens vaccinated against the disease in this country as possible. We clearly support this. It would be a miracle for you to do this regularly. It was one of those... and I'm coming back because I have two things to say, two specific cases. One of them is the pensioners. You, honourable Member, should say that you owe the pensioners. Your initiative for this week 53 will not help, because over the past ten years you have taken one million forints from pensioners, and if you try to repay them, it is still a little short to actually get what they deserve. The other concrete thing that I would like to draw your attention to is that if there is a HUF 6953 billion expenditure on public finances in the first quarter against the proceeds of HUF 5890 billion, and from this, according to their own statement, a total of HUF 343 billion was spent on the control of the epidemic, then it can actually be seen that the significant deficit that has developed is more than HUF 1000 billion, has nothing to do with the epidemic, but instead it is driven by the unnecessary and pointless investments mentioned by my colleagues. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa is coming to a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2021-04-27-134	Thank you very much. Congresswoman, you will withdraw your signature of the parliamentary decision requiring the ban and suspension of the Chinese vaccine, just as László Varju or György Szilágyi is in the first place. I would like to point out to Mr Crusades that the last time I debated Fudan University on Friday was with your fellow Member, Péter Ungár, on a television programme, on a debate programme, I am open to these debates at any time, and since these are important issues, let us speak of it calmly, as is not the subject of this bill now, but I say that we last discussed this on Friday on a television programme. You know very well that the municipalities have more money in this year's budget than they had in last year's budget, and last year's budget has made more money for municipalities than it did in the previous year. Resources allocated to municipalities are constantly increasing in the budget. It's not like it was your time when the assignment was given, but the money was taken. You remember, Congressman Varju, that's why we had to carry out a HUF 1300 billion debt consolidation in the municipalities because they were drowning in operation, not because of the investments, because of the debt you brought on them, because they forced them into the debt spiral, because although the task was given to them, they didn't give them the resources. [[László Varju and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervene several times. The president's ringing the bell.]] So, Mr. Congressman, think about that, too. Forint 1300 billion is the amount that had to be used to free local governments from debt. Think of that when you bring up the municipalities. All I ask of Congresswoman Bangóné is that you take a look at Congressman Varju's appearance today, and look at all of his appearances when they demanded that vaccines be banned, petitioned, called vaccines as human trials, and campaigned for insecurity. Klára Dobrev, one of your Prime Minister's candidates, spoke about this too, Congressman Varju said that no one said that the Russian or Chinese vaccine would help. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If it were up to you now, there would be a million and a half fewer people vaccinated in Hungary today. That's what you wanted. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[For signal:]] It's a good time, because there's still room for that. László Lóránt Keresztes Group Leader is coming in two minutes.
u2021-04-27-136	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman Nacsa, you haven't answered any of my questions. Have you seen the documents of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line before it was encrypted? Did you make a decision of hundreds of billions of forints based on the fact that your bosses told you that you were going to create a lot of jobs? You sacrificed 200 billion forints in the two serious years of the crisis without knowing what contracts are behind it, what payback guarantees are there? Nor did he answer that you agree that the Hungarian state spends HUF 500-550 billion of Hungarian taxpayers' money on the campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party in Budapest. Do you agree with that? Please, Congressman Nacsa, we are here at the Parliament meeting to answer these questions. I think the Hungarian electorate is interested in how the pro-government representatives make their decisions. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-137	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, Only in the next two minutes will Congressman Nacsa be able to speak. Thank you very much. Because the rules of the house no longer allow him to speak again, but allow Mr Balczó to take the floor now for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-138	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I apologise to Mr President and to Mr Banai, Secretary of State, that I will not be talking about the subject in the first part of my speech. Perhaps if Mr President had been here, he would have warned Congressman Nacsa not to open a debate on the vaccine. But since you have done so, I am obliged to react briefly; I apologise. I would like my list to be answered, answered or criticized by Congressman Nacsa for this part of the list. And I have told you before in Parliament: I agree that the Hungarian Government has ordered Eastern vaccines in order to achieve the highest vaccination rate possible. I completely agree with him. There is no price if it is necessary to pay for which to consider saving the lives of Hungarian people. However, it can be seen whether the price is justified or not. You can ask why it happened that while the state ordered the Russian Sputnik vaccine directly, why the question was only needed to establish an intermediate company. Strangely enough, this intermediate company, which has actually dealt with drug trafficking since 2009, switched owners on 27 November 2020 and registered a company that day, and on that day this new company bought the one that dealt with drug trafficking. This raises questions, and we know that the relatively high price also comes from the fact that this company was involved. When I may ask why this was necessary, I hope you do not feel that I am not saying that the necessary price should not be paid when it comes to saving the Hungarian people. By the way, one more comment on this case, I'm just finishing up. I agree that there has been no waiting for the authorisation of the European Medicines Agency for the Sputnik vaccine. As far as I have observed, the documentation was available, the competent Hungarian authority checked it, and I personally believe that it is right that the vaccination of this has begun. [[18.10]] At the same time, the Austrian Government, I believe, ordered two million Sputnik vaccines and said that it would not start vaccination until the European Medicines Agency granted the authorisation. Once again, I agree that we did not wait, but I think that would not make the entire Austrian government an anti-vaccination. With this, I will finish this part and switch to this loosely related part, namely the recovery and resilience package, and here I would like to quote both Minister of State Banai and László Kövér. László Kövér said on 14 July, he said, I quote, that the country is able to recover from the current economic difficulties, i.e. it doesn't need, it doesn't need any EU lifeline, we don't need this, but solidarity with the southern states We are willing to contribute, our responsibility is enormous, because the burdens and benefits of today's decision will appear both in the account of the next generation. On 8 April, Minister of State Banai said that, hearing a number of Member States' proposals, we said that if the countries of the South needed this credit in the first place, we would not oppose this new instrument. Therefore, it is my conclusion that if we do not want to increase the debt further and feel that we do not need it at all, then this package is not supported, we will also borrow it, just jointly, but not take the part of the loan where appropriate, because the economy is so good that it is not needed. Compared to this, the Prime Minister's Secretary of State clearly named him, talking about 6,000, 5900 billion forints as the size of this package we are using. Then let us look at the document itself, the 146-page document that we sent out and what the recovery plan contains. On page 8, reforms and investments are expected to cost HUF 5797 billion in total. There's also a table where I don't show it, because it would seem like an illustration, but I look at it here on iPadem, it's listed from (a) to (j) in what area 5797. Now, I am not criticising this in itself, because I believe that if this government takes part in the loan in such a way that he or another government will use it, in my view, with a changed economic policy, for an appropriate vision, it can be very useful. So once again, I say that both in the competent speeches made in previous weeks and in this document, there are exactly HUF 5797 billion distributed, and now I hear the last thing I hear is that Viktor Orbán was outside talking to Ursula von der Leyen, and he said that we only want to take 2500 billion out of this, only the support part in Hungarian. I raised this because it is quite chaotic for me now, and even said in a debate that Gergely Gulyás mentioned that we sent the document from 2500 billion forints. No. My question is, therefore, I know that it may be loosely linked to this, but I would just like to say that the final position of the government is not clear to me now. In principle, they said that we didn't need this whole package; then why did they plan for the whole package, they sent it out, they talked about it, and now suddenly it turns out that they didn't. So this is what I hope the Secretary of State does not consider as an accusation of opposition, but as a real question. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2021-04-27-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to address Mr Attila Mesterházy, from the MSZP Group, once again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-27-140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Congressman Nacsa can always be trusted to involve other subjects in the debate, so we have the opportunity to interpret this debate a little more widely, as my fellow Member Zoltán Balczó referred to it, and I would do the same now. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I'd like to take a Barkochba with Congressman Nacha to...
u2021-04-27-141	I am sorry, honourable Member, but I ask that this should not take more than three or four minutes.
u2021-04-27-142	Mr. President, as soon as we do, yes. I wonder who said I'm not getting vaccinated. And given all the circumstances, I won't. To date, people are in uncertainty: they keep very important information from the public about the quantity and quality of the vaccine in Hungary, there are rumors and questions and doubts. In a situation like this, it's unacceptable. What's the matter with you? I'm just helping you out too young to remember this was Peter Szijjártó, the current foreign minister. Then Viktor Orbán said to Kisaland: as he said, his children have already been vaccinated at school, he plans the act himself, but his wife doesn't, because he never gets vaccinated with anything. Then I'll tell you this: Tibor Navracsics Group Leader, Péter Szijjártó spokesperson, Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, Vice-President of Parliament and Gabriella Selmeczi, Health Policy Round Pretzels have declared that they will not be vaccinated. Péter Szijjártó was pleased that he said that it was not a political matter, but a private matter, that someone had been vaccinated. And to talk a little bit about the business here, which you resented, Imre Pesti, at the press conference at the Fidesz specialist, said that the vaccine against the new type of influenza virus is expensive because the state is making a deal out of this, and it wants to benefit from the epidemic. Imre Pesti, who was the victim of the vaccine, became the victim of a distasteful business. But I could also mention Minister Gergely Gulyás, who said that he believes that the confidentiality of the vaccine is extremely harmful because, in the absence of proper information, the public is not only likely to see the unfair use of the multibillion-dollar business today, but also to question the effectiveness of the vaccine, so that the loss of public confidence risks the success of the new influenza defense as a whole. So, Congressman, when you accuse us of something here, first start asking around your own house, that when there was a flu virus vaccination operation earlier, what did you say before you accuse opposition representatives here of having the courage to say such or such sentences? It's not your fault. He was probably just an activist at Fidesz, but I was trying to help him remember history. And one more thing, and this is my last thought on this subject: Mr President, I would like you to finish it, because you have long known the parliamentary mechanism here, many of which are included, so a committee of inquiry voted down by Parliament cannot be withdrawn. So I understand that this is given to you as a communication directive, that opposition representatives should be told to withdraw the committee of inquiry which, but cannot be withdrawn because it has already been voted off. So on 25 January, the opposition parties submitted a proposal for a resolution on three committees of inquiry, all of which were voted off by the Fidesz majority, as all the committees of inquiry have been voted out since you were on the government. Just because you didn't know that, because you weren't in Parliament at the time, imagine that when you were an MSZP government, all the committees of inquiry initiated by Fidesz were set up by the then governmental majority. That's a difference in democracy, I'm sure. Now, in this proposal for a decision, which is about the committee of inquiry, my fellow Member, there is not a single sentence of what you are saying in the part of the proposal for a decision. There are six points here, due to the shortness of time, I am not going to read to the President, but in these questions there are questions about whether, in a particular situation relating to the Chinese vaccine, the opposition should be informed about government support and purchase. [[18.20]] Behind each sentence, behind the task is a question mark. There's no statement. It's a legally binding part of all this. So if this committee of inquiry had been set up, the opposition could have asked questions in these six points, asking questions. There are no bans in the world, no questions. Once again, what was submitted on 25 January was voted off on 8 March. There is nothing to withdraw, since this issue has ceased to appear on Parliament's table as a problem. The other one, which Mr Balczó also referred to, is indeed an exciting subject. If Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned this, I apologise, for I have just joined the debate, but I would really be interested in this, and I have also said this in my previous comment about the truth about the European Union's recovery fund. Do the Hungarian government really not want to use the full amount, or do you want to use it? It would be worth giving an clarification in this regard, since, apparently, not only one or another, but in almost all opposition groups, this new information was raised, because, if I have seen it correctly, Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on the Budget, Fidesz, was surprised when I raised this and shook his head that he wanted to use this almost 6,000 billion. He probably hasn't read the more recent articles, which, of course, may be based on incorrect information, distorting, but it doesn't matter to the full what resources and resources we use to re-establish the economy and re-organize the country. And these are huge sums, because we are talking about thousands of billions, so it doesn't matter for what reason, what purpose this change of direction was made by the Prime Minister, because earlier it was said that the financial issues were actually settled, that the President of the Commission would be talking about big world-saving plans and visions, and that the Hungarian Prime Minister had nothing to do with the budget. Compared to this, it turned out that it had something to do with the budget, so much so that we gave up 57 percent of this resource quickly, because according to the press, only 43 percent of the funds available in the truly non-refundable and credit format are being used by the Hungarian government. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2021-04-27-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa asked for a two-minute comment. Budget!
u2021-04-27-144	Our position is that, in order to protect the health of Hungarian people, it is not possible to inject in Hungary with a Chinese vaccine that the European Medicines Agency did not allow you to sign. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-145	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicated that he wanted to conclude. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2021-04-27-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, allow me to thank you for the supporting and critical comments made on the draft budget law. I thank you for your critical comments because it gives us the opportunity to clarify what the budget amendment actually contains, on which the Government has asked for a supportive decision by the Parliament. I think that it is not by accident that we call for the amending budget and therefore the budget for 2021 itself to be re-launched. As has been said from the opposition side, on behalf of Mr Tamás Mellar, professor, the government has envisaged very important expenditure and revenue measures representing 12 percent of GDP and tax reduction measures in this amending budget. He did this to ensure that, after a successful overall crisis management, the growth of the Hungarian economy exceeds the EU average this year and in the coming years, as has been the case in recent years. The first point I therefore respond to in particular is the statement made by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member László Varju, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Ms Anita Potocskané Kőrösi or Mr László Keresztes, Head of Group. They all said that this amending budget shows the image of a ruined economic policy, that crisis management is bad. My problem is that these allegations were not supported by facts. Allow me to recall some of the numbers from the crisis management data. Last year, when the economy of the whole European Union fell, the Hungarian economy shrunk by 5 percent, compared to the 6.2 percent EU average. This is very important, since export accounts for more than 80% of the Hungarian economy, it is an open country, and the processes of foreign trade partners have a decisive influence on Hungarian events. Just in the light of these economic openness statistics and data, I consider it important and positive that the Hungarian economy was more resilient to this crisis than the average of the European Union. What about employment numbers? In contrast to the situation of ten years ago, when unemployment was above 11 percent, the number of employees was now maintained at four and a half million. This is about 800,000 more than the mid-2000s data, when, again, the number of people employed was much lower in economic economic activity. Last year, where jobs were maintained, wages also increased significantly, with an average wage increase of 9.7 percent. These are three macro-economic data which, to me, say that crisis management measures have overall been successful. The negative effects of the crisis have, of course, been felt by all of us, but no country in Europe is an exception, and therefore, in comparison with others, I repeat, the economic policy that the government has chosen has, in our view, shown better results than others. The second point, for which many people attacked the bill before you, is that one of the focus of crisis management measures was to support investment. It has been said that investments should be stopped, instead the amount of unemployment benefit and the duration of the payment of the allowance should be increased. It's an old argument. The government believes that we believe that it is basically the work that gives us the backbone of economic growth, and that, in addition to the fact that at the macroeconomic level, work leads us forward, it also gives the individual support. I also personally believe that if people can choose between aid and work, they will choose work. For this reason, we have focused most of our resources on preserving jobs, whether through investments or with job-saving support. But I think that the priority of investments is not a Hungarian specialty. I have heard the term countercyclical economic policy several times from opposing benches. Since Keynes, we know that when there is an economic crisis, the state should enter and influence processes with public demand and infrastructure investments. It's an old recipe, it's not a Hungarian specialty. The Hungarian specialty is that most of the measures taken in the crisis focus on investment. Why? Because we know from international experience that a country can only be successful if it keeps its investment rate at a high level. That is why I repeat that last year the Hungarian economy's investment rate was among the first three or four countries of the European Union, and in particular the level of public investment represented 6.4 percent of GDP. This is roughly double the EU average. I believe that this investment policy was also needed to report positive employment data. In addition to creating and protecting jobs on the short-term income side by investing, for example, the number of people employed in the construction sector increased last year, investments may have a lasting growth surplus. [[18.30]] Public investments and road constructions allow faster transport opportunities, fewer accidents, but businesses' investments lead to greater emissions and market wins, which is why investment is also seen as an opportunity to break out of the crisis, which is why I propose that the element of the bill before you should be supported which focuses on a high level stabilisation of investment. Point 3 is the criticism of the error of adopting the budget for 2021 at the end of the spring session last year. Allow me to say that since the 2016 budget, the government and Parliament have followed the practice that Parliament will decide on the budget and tax rules of the following year about six months before the start of the calendar year. Overall, I think this has been positive in recent years, because it has helped predictability, but at the same time we have been able to achieve the budgetary targets in order. It is undoubtedly a fact that at this time last year there was a debate on the need to establish the budget at the spring session. I think that the main lines of the 2021 budget adopted last year are still valid, as last year we said that we should focus on investment and the preservation of jobs. Last year, we said that resources should be allocated to control the epidemic. This principle of economic policy has not been changed. The adoption of this year's budget made it possible to start last year's investments, to conclude contracts, the payment of which was made from 1 January of this year. There is no doubt that everyone is right that a year ago no one knew that such a significant third wave would occur during the first period of 2021. I am confident that, thanks to the high vaccination, Hungary will be able to get the coronal virus epidemic behind its back first, and the economic recovery will indeed be supported by the budget of which the main directions were laid down by Parliament last year. At this point, let me debate the findings that have been made in today's debate. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that the government asked for a mandate of HUF 1500 billion. Member László Varju also pointed out that it is not entirely clear how the 7.5% deficit is combined. I respectfully recommend that everyone look at the details of the bill that has been tabled. It is precisely explained what kind of expenses the government intends to spend on. I would like to move on to the next point, the deficit and the level of public debt. It was said that the figures for 2010 and 2006 are quoted in these Hungarian figures. In this respect, let me be the first to clarify Mr Attila Mesterházy: last year's debt ratio was 80.4%, not the biggest deficit ever, not the biggest debt figure ever. The deficit figure is indeed what we saw in the mid-2000s, but it is worth putting these figures, debt and deficit figures in context. Firstly, in the mid-2000s there were six consecutive years when the Hungarian government deficit was the largest or the second largest of the European Union countries. As a result, the level of public debt has increased, and many ten years ago we saw that Hungarian government debt is about 10 percentage points higher than the EU average. What's this about? The 7.5% deficit targeted by the government is less than the average of the European Union, according to the latest forecast by the Member States in 2021. Let me quote some countries from their own national documents. Germany's deficit is 8.9 percent, France 9,1, Italy 8.8, Austria 8.4, but if I look at the V3 data, Slovakia 7.4, Czech Republic 8.8, Poland 6.9. So the deficit-to-GDP target of 7.5 percent is indeed high, that if I look at the Hungarian data of recent years, but if I look at these deficit figures in an international context, that is no longer the case. This is also due to the fact that the debt ratio may indeed be at a high level compared to recent years, but it is still much lower than the EU average. At the end of 2020, the EU average debt was 90.7 per cent. In 2021, we calculate that the debt ratio can decrease as a percentage of GDP. The average GDP-weighted debt ratio of the European Union is projected to increase from 90.7 percent last year to 95.1 percent by Member States. Why do we need such a deficit and such debt? To give support to the real economy. I quote European Commission documents. These indicate that there is no greater error in ensuring stimuli at all than to provide too many stimuli. It is no coincidence that the European Commission itself has proposed the suspension of the Maastricht rule system. If we put the debt figure in the context of an international comparison, let me also give you some data on the debt level and the debt path in Hungary. László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, said that he could have certain institutions with swords and debt... [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Subjugation! I'm quoting!]] Mr. Fraction Manager quoted the Prime Minister. If we look at the structure of the Hungarian debt, we can see that the ratio of government debt in foreign currency was above 50 percent ten years ago. Today it's below 20 percent. If we look at the public funding, it was 2-3 percent, today it's over 20 percent. If we look at the structure of the foreign currency debt, a significant diversification has taken place. The Head of the Group said why we should resort to Chinese or Russian resources within the financing of public debt. Because this is part of diversification, and of course, if we can achieve project funding for a good project, then why not take this opportunity? Why is there a 7.5% deficit target? asked President László Varju. Because we believe that this will also allow us to ensure a real economic stimulus and, on the other hand, to reduce the debt ratio. As regards the details of the budget, many people have said that pensions are being taken away by the government from those concerned. I think that's what Congressman Tamás Mellar specifically said that the government is going to take a pension. Let's look at the facts after that. On the one hand, the provision of the inflation-following pension system is a statutory obligation that many in 2010-11 thought was a bold commitment, knowing the financial problems of the previous period, knowing that before 2010, in response to the crisis at that time, let's say, the 13th month pension was taken away. In the environment where Hungary was under the excessive deficit procedure, Hungary owed significant resources to the IMF, but this was a significant commitment. The government and, if you will, the Parliament not only fulfilled this commitment, but in many cases there has been a greater increase than the level of fact inflation. Overall, about 10 percent is the real increase in inflation alone, as I repeat, when fact inflation showed that there was more data than a pension increase, it was an additional increase, but when the fact inflation was lower than the actual increase in pensions, nothing was taken back from pensions, obviously. But beyond that, it was the decision of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction supporting the government behind the government, which also allows the recovery of the 13th month pension and the payment of the pension premium due to economic results. That's why I can't understand the suggestion that the government would save on pensioners. If it had not been for the purpose of recognising the work of pensioners and their decades of work, the government would not have initiated the restoration of the 13th month pension, the government would have applied to the pension premium system, or there would have been no Erzsébet's voucher or a return certificate. Local governments. I promise I'll try to respond quickly to the suggestions. [[18.40]] Member László Varju and Member László Varga, as well as a number of people, have criticised measures affecting local governments. For example, László Varga said that the government is specifically shaping legislation to make the opposition authorities come out worse. Congressman Antal Csárdi said that it is true that in the bill before you there is a surplus of 40 billion for municipalities, but it can be used according to political color based on individual consideration. Please allow me to deny these allegations factually, the aid linked to the operation of municipalities is determined by normative rules in the budget law 2021. Let me give you a few examples, according to the budget No. 21, which are the municipalities that manage more resources in 21 than in 20: Érd, Miskolc, Pécs, Szeged, Hódmezővásárhely, I could list the settlements. These are all opposition-led municipalities. As regards the proposal that we have just tabled: I repeat, it is a payment of a normative nature. As regards individual subsidies, it has been said that they receive support from pro-government municipalities. I ask Members to look at government decisions: in addition to the normative general support, the city of Pécs, Miskolc or Eger has received specific support. Pécs has been mentioned several times, let me say only two items from last year: the government has provided HUF 1.9 billion in a unique way for the operation of the Zsolnay quarter, regardless of the fact that cultural programs have been implemented in a much narrower framework due to the pandemic. Another example in Pécs: By the end of last year, if I remember correctly, the city of Pécs would have had to pay back a loan of HUF 7 billion to the state. The city has initiated a change of credit, the government has heard this request and the contract has been amended. I would ask Mr. Group Leader to look at this with Mayor Péterffy. As far as the municipalities are concerned. We have often said, I say briefly, that I believe that the economic policy that focuses on the recovery of economic growth is also helpful to local authorities -: between 2014 and 2019, the average growth of the Hungarian economy was 4.1 percent, and the average growth of the Union was 2.1 percent. As a result of this increase, the business tax, which is the main revenue of local authorities, increased by 50 percent between 2014 and 2019. By the way, the measure was 60 percent in the capital city. We ask the municipalities to be partners in bringing this economic growth back to the level that marked Hungary before the crisis as soon as possible. If this is the case, one of the main beneficiary sectors of growth will be the municipal sector. As far as the burden is concerned. Of course, the government requests that, in the current crisis, local authorities also try to take possible measures in terms of operating costs. The central budgetary bodies, with the exception of health institutions, have done so. In the years 2020 and 21, in response to the crisis, I repeat, we have reduced the operating expenditure of central budgetary bodies in order to give momentum to the real economy. As far as RRF programmes are concerned. On the one hand, I can say that, as regards the use of the resources available to Hungary at the end of last year, in accordance with the agreement of the Heads of State or Government, and as regards the greater contribution of the Member States resulting from the agreement, if the Parliament adopts the proposal for a budget law before you, then the possibility of both the use of grants and the fulfilment of the greater national contribution will be opened. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked about the adoption of the own resource decision. Obviously, the Parliament determines when it will put some questions on the agenda; I can say that even if this own resources resolution is adopted by a separate Act by Parliament, the greater contribution must be made even if all Member States fulfil this obligation. I repeat, the necessary resources are included in the draft amending budget, both in terms of the implementation of the programmes and in terms of greater payments. Mr Zoltán Balczó quoted Mr László Kövér as Speaker of the loan. Mr Speaker, and many people said that Hungary was not the country that proposed to the European Commission the borrowing of the Commission. We said that if some Member States needed this, Hungary would not oppose the launch of the RRF programme. However, it is different whether or not the government is at the forefront of the loan available under the RRF. The spending of the RRF loan increases the general government deficit or increases the government debt. Each Member State has the opportunity to notify its intention to the European Commission by the end of April, and I would add that it will still be possible to borrow it later. This is an issue that is not closed. Undoubtedly, we need to consider whether or not the RRF programme deserves credit in addition to the use of grants. Pricing is a question raised by Mr Group Leader on behalf of the LMP. It should also be noted that the use of RRF programmes is country-specific, subject to recommendations and Commission opinions. I think that this would be a long philosophical debate on whether the European Commission should be involved in tax matters, which is in the competence of the Member States. I would like to recall that the European Commission proposed the launch of the public work programme, and they themselves said that this was a successful programme. I would like to recall that the European Commission has attacked the bank tax, saying that this will be a barrier to lending activity. We see that there was no barrier to lending activity, and we have also seen that this bank tax has contributed significantly to the consolidation of public finances. So there are also serious sovereignty issues on the agenda here, not just the pricing of the RRF loan that we need to talk about. Family benefits. It is possible to argue about the right instrument to provide family support. It is true, in fact, that the budget bill before you is about double the amount of family support compared to 2010 levels. This year, too, there is an increase in the number of family benefits, and it has been said that the baby care fee increases to 100 percent, and after that, only social contributions are payable and not contributions. Thus, a mother who has a child will be able to use additional resources as a baby - care fee compared to her former income. Supporting the countryside, the suggestion of László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the faction. Recommend Group Leader to the attention of the Hungarian village program, with HUF 192 billion, this is not affected by the change in the budget. Supporting a water utility. I trust that there will also be a source from the program "KEUP Plus" for this purpose. Again, I agree, recalling our previous debates, that this is an area where there is a real need for new investments. The authority of regulated markets is a budgetary issue. I would like to confirm that, of course, the budget bill before you does not contain a blank mandate here either, but that, if Parliament adopts the law and is declared, it will be the source insurance for this institution. It's an apartment market. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát pointed out that although the number of new housing constructions has increased significantly, in many cases demand and supply have not been in line, supply has been scarce. That is why I think it is important that the government has provided investment aid to boost supply. And that's why I think it's important not only for new constructions, but also for renovations. The proposal before you contains 120 billion forints for house renovation. And why a new apartment? Why the renovation of existing property? Why not rent? Because most Hungarian families want own property instead of a rental. [[18.50]] Reducing the rate of social contribution tax. I would like to confirm that, in the bill before you, we are counting on the reduction that Parliament made last year. This reduction of 2 percentage points was made earlier than the end of 2016 agreement. Overall, I believe that the bill before you is intended to restart the economy, and that the 12 per cent of GDP that we intend to use this year's budget from domestic sources to use EU funds and tax measures to help the economy restart. I hope that, if this motion is accepted by the Parliament, we can achieve economic growth at the same time that will be achieved in everyday life as well as in the rise in wages, and we will be able to return to the debt reduction path that has characterised Hungary in recent years and which is crucial for the future credibility of our budget policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-27-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I'm gonna wait for the two Secretarys of State to switch seats for a minute. Take your time. This one minute is not going to be the end of the day. I'm asking you to transfer the horseshoe to Secretary of State Izer Norbert. [[It's happening.]] Okay, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposed amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 in Geneva for the international carriage of goods by TIR pass will follow. The government referral is T/1570. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 relating to the international carriage of goods by TIR pass shall be applied in practice by Hungary from 1978. The TIR Convention allows goods which are subject to suspension of customs duties and duties to cross the border at least one section by road, with minimal intervention by the customs authorities. The TIR system facilitates the development of international trade by reducing delays in traffic by reducing the traditional barriers to international movement of goods. As with other customs transit procedures, there has been a need for electronicisation for the TIR system for many years. The so-called eTIR project was launched in 2003, followed by lengthy and wide-ranging international consultations in order to introduce the electronic TIR procedure. For this reason, the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe has developed this amendment to the Geneva Customs Convention governing the international carriage of goods by TIR means. Those amendments shall enter into force on 25 May 2021. This amendment is intended to introduce a new Annex 11 to the TIR Convention. The new Annex establishes the legal basis for the application of the eTIR procedure, with the aim of ensuring the secure exchange of data and information between the parties applying the TIR Convention, in particular with regard to collateral management. The introduction of the eTIR procedure also allows paper-based TIR IDs to be replaced by electronic IDs. The preparation of the accession to the eTIR system is carried out at Union level and its involvement is undertaken at customs level. The amendments to the tribal text of the TIR Convention shall be of a technical nature in particular, shall lay down the conditions for the introduction of Annex 11 and shall establish an implementing body. Annex 9 sets out an additional task in the event of a breakdown in order to ensure the availability and confirmation of all relevant information on TIR transport. Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based, and the Hungarian guaranteeing association issued some four thousand TIR cards in 2020. The amendments in question contribute to the implementation of electronics in the TIR system in accordance with modern-day requirements and to a more uniform and harmonious operation of the system. On the basis of what has been said, I ask that the bill on the publication of an amendment to the Customs Convention concluded in Geneva on 14 November 1975 concerning the international carriage of goods by TIR means be adopted and supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-27-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-150	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the proposal before us, I would like to point out that the TIR Convention, which has been applied in Hungary since 1978, has been supporting the work of Hungarian and foreign truckers and international freight forwarders for 43 years now. The TIR Convention allows consignments to flow between customs authorities in the Member States with minimal intervention, while guarantees of customs control remain. The current treaty amendment is expected to be of great importance for international transport. It is a full digitisation of the TIR procedure, which has been under way for more than a decade in international negotiations involving preparatory work. The purpose of the so-called eTIR procedure is to build a secure data and information exchange system among the transport and customs actors of the States applying the Convention, paying particular attention to security management, which was referred to by the Secretary of State. The modernisation of the Convention will allow carriers to have a new and modern electronic TIR pass instead of the current paper. This measure, as well as the digitisation of the whole system, is timely and timely because it will greatly facilitate the non-contactisation of freight transport, thereby reducing the health risks for carriers and customs workers in the epidemic situation. Thanks to the modernisation, not only the TIR Convention will be able to maintain its competitiveness and effectiveness, but also the transporters will be able to do their work much faster. In addition, I think it is important to note that the Member States participating in the eTIR are given the freedom to link their digital customs systems with the new international system. The current treaty amendment therefore also gives countries flexibility. The eTIR system is maintained by the bodies responsible for administration and operation, directly by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, which will ensure that the international system remains independent of the International Association of Road Transporters, which is the international organisation of the TIR Convention. This solution was supported by the European Union from the outset. Most of the new provisions cover the details of the digitalisation of the eTIR system, and amendments have to be made to the text of the existing contract in order to comply with the new annex. Overall, the current amendment therefore includes important and timely modernisations that allow for more efficient, safer and more flexible rules in the area of transport. That is why the Fidesz Group supports the proposal before us. On these grounds, I very much ask my fellow Members to act in the same way after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-27-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Because Balczó... [[Zoltán Balczó arrives in the Chamber.]] We'll wait. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Balczó. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. It's okay. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-152	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Excuse me. I just took the opportunity that a State Secretary was a representative of the previous subject, who is also willing to respond to the substantive requests of opposition representatives after the closing. I'm sorry I'm late. In essence, the TIR Convention is a transit system which covers the transport of goods between the Contracting countries on the road. Customs carried under its scope are exempted from the obligation to pay customs duties, taxes and other duties in intermediate countries by TIR Carnet international customs documents. Its importance is even increased by the fact that a combination of vehicles capable of international freight transport is exempted from the formality of the different customs provisions in force in different states if it operates under cover of the TIR Act, the TIR Convention. [[19.00]] So this is a very important system, and this adoption of the amendment can be assessed as a huge step forward, as the so-called eTIR project initiative started in 2003, which I said in parentheses and was preceded by lengthy discussions at international level. The purpose of the eTIR procedure is to ensure the secure exchange of data and information between actors applying the TIR Convention, in particular with regard to collateral management. The introduction also allows paper-based TIR IDs to be replaced by electronic IDs. Obviously, the bill regulates a number of specific issues in this context, but I consider that to be the essence and must be fully supported in this way. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2021-04-27-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is now Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-154	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At such an item on the agenda, you should take this opportunity to thank the freight forwarders for their last year's work, because they often had to do their work in accordance with border control, various quarantine rules and entry rules. Hungary has also handled this situation particularly flexibly and well, as there has been no obstacle to freight traffic in the east-west, north-south direction, so Hungary has also allowed transit traffic, and specifically many freight carriers have been able to travel through the designated transit route in Hungary, so the supply of goods has been undisturbed both in Hungary and in the neighbouring countries, there has been no shortage of food materials, there has not been any situation that has led citizens to build up their stocks, or any situation that would have caused them to panic. So we would also like to thank the freight forwarders for their work. Moreover, they also play a major role in the transport of vaccine against the corona virus and in its logistics. We'd like to thank them for their work from here. On 14 November 1975, in Geneva, the Customs Convention for the International Carriage of Goods by TIR Certificate was signed; Hungary has applied it in practice since 1978. Hungary is an active contracting party to the TIR Convention. The number of TIR cards issued by the Hungarian Guarantee Association in 2020 is around 4 thousand pieces, with a volume of which Hungary belongs to the middle field in the international context. The Contracting Parties to the TIR Convention set up the so-called eTIR project in 2003 to electronicise activities related to the use of the TIR card, including the replacement of existing paper certificates with electronic cards. The bill before us makes it possible to incorporate Annex 11 to the TIR Convention into the Hungarian legal order. An electronic modification is an advantage in international transport, reducing administrative burdens and increasing the efficiency and quality of TIR procedures. Electronicisation can also eliminate problems with paper certificates, reduce the risk of fraud, while at the same time increasing the safety of transport. The bill before us therefore contributes to the implementation of electronics in the TIR system in line with today's digital age, and to a more uniform and harmonious operation of the system, helping carriers, customs authorities, farmers and guaranteeing associations to work everyday. The KDNP fraction will accordingly support the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-04-27-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-156	Thank you very much. Mr President, The MSZP fraction will do the same. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-04-27-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Dear Chief of Staff, You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I find Congressman Nacha's gesture very positive. I would also like to thank the freight forwarders for their sacrifices, because they have done dangerous and very, very important work in extremely difficult circumstances. So we certainly owe it to all of your colleagues that they have indeed secured the supply of goods and goods. As a green party, LMP, of course, always says that we believe in strengthening local production, and we believe that international freight transport must not only be reduced but also reduced. However, this proposal ahead of us, the introduction of the eTIR system is certainly positive in all its elements, so the LMP fraction will be happy to support it with its vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-04-27-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, and I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Norbert, Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he would like to reply to what has been said, since everything was ultimately supportive. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 16 o'clock on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 2018/1672 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of cash entering or leaving the territory of the Union and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/15994. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. The time frame is 30 minutes. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-04-27-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, This bill is intended to monitor cash flows at the external borders of the European Union by implementing the relevant EU regulation. From 3 June 2021, the new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of cash entering or leaving the territory of the Union, replacing the earlier Regulation, shall apply. The Regulation expands the obligations arising from previous EU legislation. The new EU legislation made it necessary to repeal and redefine domestic legislation for its implementation. The control of the movement of cash complements anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures, making it mandatory for natural persons to report cash they hold in excess of EUR 10 000 when crossing the external borders of the Union. The objective of the regulation is to complement anti-money laundering legislation involving financial institutions and financial institutions by controlling the cash flows carried out by natural persons, by imposing reporting obligations, and to monitor the movement of large amounts of cash. The rules severely sanction both the absence of notification and the false notification, i.e. the case where the reported amount is not the same as the amount of cash found during the specific investigation. The former regulation, according to international experts, is outdated, the scope of financial instruments that are considered to be financial instruments to be examined is too narrow, given the fact that they can easily be made into cash, and things that can be hidden in small places pose the same threat as actual cash in a narrow sense. The previous regulation still in use defined only banknotes in circulation, coins and bearer securities as cash. However, the new regulation extended this concept to non-processed gold of specified purity and gold coins, as well as to so-called unaccompanied cash, i.e. cash in postal or parcel traffic exceeding the threshold. In line with this, the authorities of the Member States should develop their own national rules for the control of newly introduced valuables, bearing in mind that, in the case of these valuables or unaccompanied cash, the method of entry in the case of traditional cash poses new challenges for determining authorities. [[19.10]] It was necessary to develop valuation methods for gold, the calculation procedures to be applied in the case of possible partial asset limitation measures, as well as, in the case of unaccompanied cash, the data acquisition, declaration and, where necessary, the retention and penalty provisions for both the Hungarian and the other Member States' recipients. In the latter case, it is necessary to note that the customs authorities are under a procedural obligation in respect of cash detected at the time of entry in the postal and small parcel traffic addressed to another Member State but entering the Union in Hungary, i.e. the authorities of the Member State in which the consignment is received decide to require the dispatch or consignee to provide information and, if necessary, they are entitled to impose penalties, i.e. to impose a fine and to retain its amount. Accordingly, this bill also contains all the procedural rules necessary for the implementation of the customs control of the new financial instruments to be controlled in order to fully comply with the application of EU provisions. Honourable Members, Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I would ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-162	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, T/15994. The proposed legislation implementing EU, EP and Council Regulation 2018/1672 on the control of cash entering or leaving the Union and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 is intended to implement the relevant EU legislation. The control of cash held by natural persons in the course of EU border crossings of more than EUR 10 000 under the bill before us complements the anti-money laundering provisions, so that due to their international monitoring and monitoring of compliance, it is in the interest of all Member States and their priority obligation to properly transpose the rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The new EU legislation, in parallel with the repeal of the previous regulation, significantly expands the definition of controlled cash. The former cash definition covered banknotes, coins and bearer securities in circulation, while the new EU legislation redistributes the concept of cash in a conceptual manner, extending it to non-processed gold, gold coins and so-called unaccompanied cash, i.e. mail or small packages. The obligation to report cash at the external borders is an integral part of the European Union's anti-money laundering and terrorist financing strategy. The European Commission's proposal partly maximizes the value of goods and services that can be paid in cash against organised crime, partly in order to make terrorist financing impossible. In fact, this is nothing more than a logical continuation of the anti-money laundering action plan, which was also a measure that stopped the issuance of the new EUR 500 banknotes years ago, including in order to make illegal transactions more difficult. Under the rules, international passenger traffic, who enters or exits the EU external border with an amount of more than EUR 10 000, is subject to notification. In this case, the information shall be provided in writing to the Treasury. It is also important to point out that this is not in any way aimed at restricting capital traffic, as anyone who may have multiples of this amount should only have a credible proof of the origin and purpose of the money. It should also be noted that this limit is not allocated to travellers together. So, for example, if a family of four travels and the head of the family has 30 thousand euros, which he has not announced in advance, and is found in his bag during the inspection, he cannot rely on the fact that they have not exceeded the maximum per person. So the prior notification is absolutely important. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that EU legislation repeals previous legislation, it is also appropriate to deregulation domestic legislation and, at the same time, to re-establish legislative provisions. As explained above, the bill contains procedural rules in line with the extended EU legislation to control the new financial instruments to be audited, thereby ensuring full compliance with EU rules. In the light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. He is the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Balczó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-164	Mr President, thank you for the floor. If I want to go back to the substance of the regulation that is now under discussion and to be repealed, then I have to go back to 1989. This year, at the G7 summit in Paris, the so-called financial action group was set up as a government body setting standards and facilitating the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The Financial Working Party's recommendations have been incorporated into the legal form of the 2005 EU Regulation. However, the mechanisms for cross-border transmission of the values acquired by the infringement have changed, and the view has increased. This resulted, first and foremost, in the adoption of a directive in this legal framework in 2015, and finally, on the basis of an assessment of existing EU legislation, the legislators in the European Union found that this particular regulation of 2005 needed to be amended. However, the scope of the amendments was so large that the current decision was taken to repeal the Regulation and this new Regulation 2018/172 was adopted. I must add that this Regulation does not affect the Member States' ability to impose, in their national law, further national controls on cash flows within the Union, provided that they are consistent with the fundamental freedoms of the Union. It has been said that everything has changed in the 21st century. In the century. Let me give you an example: I do not want to repeat the solos in front of me, the concept of cash, which, for example, had to be expanded with certain types of charge cards. These prepaid cards are not linked to a bank account, are easily transferable and can be used to transfer significant values across external borders. This is why it was very important for these prepaid cards to be included in the definition of cash, especially if they can be purchased without customer due diligence. Obviously, the implementation of this is an obligation for us as a Member State of the European Union, as it is a regulation, but, of course, based on its content, Jobbik also clearly considers it important and to be supported. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! The bill before us is intended to implement EU legislation, to control cash entering or leaving the territory of the Union. Accordingly, the bill takes over the new EU regulation 2018/1672 and repeals Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005. The control of cash held by natural persons in excess of EUR 10 000 at EU border crossings complements the anti-money laundering provisions, so that due to their international monitoring and monitoring of compliance, it is in the interest of all Member States and their priority obligation to properly transpose the legislation. The new regulation significantly expands the definition of controlled cash. The former cash definition covers banknotes, coins and bearer securities in circulation, while the new EU legislation redistributes the concept of cash in a conceptual manner, extending it to non-processed gold of specific purity and gold coins, as well as so-called unaccompanied cash, i.e. mail or small packages. [[19.20]] The bill therefore includes the implementation of the new EU legislation and, in line with this, the necessary legislative harmonisation provisions in order to fully comply with EU rules. Like all EU legislative proposals for harmonisation, the transposition of EU law into Hungarian law, this will be supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I may, I will not repeat all the letters of the law again, I would simply say that we also support it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2021-04-27-169	Thank you very much, honourable Member. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr. Izer Norbert once again that he wishes to take the floor. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-170	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd only take a moment to abuse your patience. I would like to thank you for your constructive contributions and support in the last two debates. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on amendments to the legislation on covered bonds and other legislative amendments to the financial intermediary system for harmonisation until closure. The government referral is T/15973. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Mr Secretary of State, your timeframe is 30 minutes. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-172	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressmen! I promise I won't take the 30 minutes due to the late date. The laws governing the financial intermediary system are now being amended on a recurring basis annually. Once again, we are presenting to this House such a package, which concerns both the credit institutions, capital markets and insurance sectors, with a view to meeting the demands of continuous changes at the level of legislation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to comply with our obligation to harmonise EU legislation. The main focus on the regulation of covered bonds is this time, as indicated in the title. This issue is also based on the provisions of an EU act, the Directive on the issuance and public oversight of covered bonds, adopted in 2019. The provisions of the Directive facilitate the cost-effective use of covered bonds in bank lending. The frameworks offer investors a safe investment opportunity. The core of the package of proposals is the regime for covered bonds, which aims to further promote the use of covered bonds as a stable and cost-effective source of funding. For investors, the regulatory framework offers wider and safer investment opportunities and thus helps to preserve financial stability. In Hungary, only mortgage bonds are covered bonds, which can only be issued by specialised credit institutions and mortgage credit institutions. The transposition of the directive requires the revision and addition of the mortgage credit institution law. The new rules include amendments to cover mortgage bonds, liquidity buffers, information to mortgage holders and special supervision. The transposition of the new EU rules does not constitute a significant change in domestic legislation. Although there was no uniform regulation at EU level, domestic covered bonds, namely the mortgage market, have been operating as an existing product for years, so it does not mean significant new regulation, I could also say that we have done this for years, years ago. The outstanding product in its rating and customer protection has been further confirmed in the definition of liquidity buffer rules and liquid assets. The new regulatory details are the special rules in the event of liquidation, which we hope will not be necessary. Once again, I stress that mortgage bonds are a high-quality, safe investment product. The provisions of the Directive should be transposed by the Member States by 8 July 2021 and applied by the institutions from 8 July 2022. Dear Parliament, I'm sure many people have heard of community funding or as it is called in English: crowdfunding. A new alternative form of financing, which provides in particular small amounts of investment for start-ups, innovative businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises. The explicit legal regulation of this form of fundraising did not yet exist in Hungarian law. In the future, the framework of this regulation will be defined by European regulation, and the proposal ensures the necessary internal Hungarian legal rules for the application of this regulation. The European harmonised legal framework covers the operation, organisation, authorisation and supervision of Community funding providers and two types of Community funding, Community financing based on lending and investment, not Community funding based on donations and return. The Community financing service provider shall operate a publicly available digital platform with a view to linking prospective investors and creditors to companies seeking funding and facilitating their contacts. In particular, the proposal does not extend closed service areas because of investor protection considerations, so that risk exposure of financial service providers for other services should not increase. Honourable Members, Among other elements of the bill, I would also like to mention the amendment of the rules on reporting agents. Transparency in financial markets plays a major role in this area. In view of the cross-border dimension of data management, the authorisation and supervision of data providers is based on the European Securities and Markets Authority. An exception to this is provided only by reporting agents with limited activities. They are supervised by national supervisors, the Hungarian National Bank in Hungary. The regulatory changes to the financial intermediary system include changes made by EU bodies to restore the Covid-19 crisis. These provisions provide certain facilitations in the provision of investment services while ensuring further investor protection. As part of the European Capital Markets Union initiative, which is part of the capital market theme, the rules that hinder cross-border marketing of investment funds will also be simplified and the obstacles arising from different interpretations in the Member States removed. The proposals to transpose the provisions of the Directive reduce the cost of cross-border activities and promote a more integrated EU market for investment funds. Dear Parliament, The next topic also covers an innovative initiative. The aim of the European Parliament and Council Regulation on pan-European individual pension products is to introduce an individual pension product on the EU supplementary pension market which is simple, portable and cheap. A pan-European pension product will be an alternative to additional pension savings made available by national legislation. The pan-European pension product will provide a wide range of service providers with the opportunity to enter the supplementary pension market, with products available in several Member States. Service providers will be able to reach customers across the Union through electronic distribution channels. Thus, licensed pan-European pension products can be marketed throughout the Union. The regulation contains rules directly in force in the Member States, but certain issues of the accumulation and payment phases need to be developed in domestic legislation. The rules of the Regulation and close supervision at EU level provide security for savers to ensure that their long-term investments provide them with adequate elderly care. The first pan-European pension products are expected to appear in the second half of April 2022. Honourable Members, The implementation and enforcement of sustainable development plays an increasingly important role in the regulation of the financial intermediary system. [[19.30]] These aspects are gradually reflected in the relevant rules of the European Union, so they will also apply and apply in Hungary. In addition to the government's economic policy, the bill also makes a specific name for its policy on environmental sustainability as part of sustainability as an area supported by the National Bank without compromising its primary objective. Dear Parliament, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/15973 in front of us. The draft law on certain legislative amendments relating to the regulation of margin bonds and to the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes, as outlined in the expoze, essentially serves legal harmonisation purposes. The amendment to the legislation on mortgage credit institutions is essentially justified by the transposition into national law of Directive 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the issuance of margin bonds and the public oversight of collateral bonds and amending the relevant Directives of the European Community and of the European Union. The package of proposals includes a set of rules on collateral bonds aimed at promoting the use of collateral bonds as a stable and cost-effective source of financing for credit institutions, thereby increasing or facilitating the possibility of lending. In Hungary, only mortgage bonds are covered, which can only be issued by specialised credit institutions, i.e. mortgage credit institutions. The new provisions should be applied by the Member States from July 2022 on the basis of a decision of the European Parliament. Dear House, The package of proposals also includes provisions to ensure the implementation of the EU Regulation on a new form of mediation for Community financing. There is currently no legislation specifically governing Community financing activities in Hungary. The European harmonised legal framework covers two types of Community funding, loan-based and investment-based Community funding, i.e. not yet Community funding based on donations and return. Rules on the functioning, organisation, authorisation and supervision of Community funding providers will be laid down on the basis of the EU framework. As part of the implementation of the Capital Markets Union, the rules on cross-border marketing of investment funds will be simplified and, in addition to the directive to this end, the removal of obstacles arising from diverging interpretations by Member States through regulation. The proposals to transpose the provisions of the Directive reduce the cost of cross-border activities and promote a more integrated EU market for investment funds. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the above, the package of proposals includes amendments to domestic legislation ensuring the implementation of the European Union Regulation on pan-European individual pension products, which will enter into force in April 2022. The individual form of pension savings on pan-European individual pension products on the entire EU market will be a new form that will join voluntary pension funds, pension insurance and pension savings accounts on domestic markets. The main feature of this is portability between Member States in the event of relocation of residence and the possibility of offering a five-year change of service provider. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the proposal, the target system and mandate of the Hungarian National Bank will be expanded with support for environmental sustainability in order to support sustainable development and green money. In addition to harmonisation obligations, the proposal also includes amendments to the transformation of the vocational training system in order to ensure that professional qualifications standards are coherent. In light of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members that you, like the Fidesz fraction, support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-04-27-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-176	Mr President, Dear House, Well, there's a little less of us left than when we had to vote for the trust fund for all those state assets. But on the bright side, the atmosphere may be a little less stressful at this time of the evening, and the subject of the proposal is much more peaceful than before, since it is essentially an EU implementation. There's an area in it that's very important to me, by the way. And this, of Community funding, which was indeed unorganized, I think the State Secretary's Expo clearly described the dilemmas in this area. As a former bookman and writer, I see that it was a huge problem in the publishing market, too, that often products that did not seem to be marketable and not so profitable could not be placed on the market with prior funding in the light of a clear legal background. We may be able to help this now, but what I see here is that it is investment financing that will be organised on the basis of the EU implementation, and that, in fact, such a mini-share structure is being developed, while I consider the third leg, this donation, equally important. The development of this, I think, is not only in its infancy in Hungary, but it is completely lacking in the market. And especially now, in a time of crisis, when we see, say, in the music industry, to speak a sentence or two about another of my favourite areas, artists for whom a form of community-based financing could now mean air or survival, so I would like to encourage the government not to be bravely satisfied with an EU implementation, but to complete this with a package of its own. With a national package that is typically able to find answers to problems on the Hungarian market. I think that, if, say, a drone law was something that seemed like a professional debate, it could be here, too, and I clearly want the government to try not to make it a political product, but to bring it to the House as a professional question, as a package. I'm trying to put personal comments in the background now, although it's always interesting to me when investor protection considerations come up in connection with a proposal, and the mortgage theory comes up. It is very difficult not to talk about 18,000 evictions, so it is very difficult not to talk about a defective product that, in 2001, is an incredibly big mistake, because of the release of unilateral treaty amendments in this form, and then in the 2000s, there was a brutally unjustified increase in the credit stock resulting from mass evictions and family failures in the 2010s. It is therefore difficult to keep this away from us, but we also see that there is something to be done here, so in addition to the EU transplant, we should also have a national package that focuses on three important areas: on the one hand, to stop evictions until the end of the emergency; on the other hand, to eliminate enforcement bans for the lowest earners, i.e. 33 percent and 50 percent, and, thirdly, for banking customers. A credit moratorium was created on a better idea; we will argue a lot about the fact that we believe that the small print part of this was wrong, because we did not think that the moratorium would be extended by 24 months, so that the entire credit would be increased by up to a million. We imagined a solution with which the bank will not get rich, and otherwise the client will not get rich, but we will freeze the system and give the client temporary air. However, it is nonsense for banks to make money and realize at the moratorium, which is a concession for citizens. This is the case with the current construction. Therefore, if we are talking about mortgage lending and the transposition of EU rules, my request is for a national package to protect citizens from overruns and wild drivings in the banking system. There is a need for banks, there is a need for multinationals, on the basis of public burdens, under fair conditions of competition, but these conditions must be checked by the current government. If you like, you can create them. [[19.40]] I miss this national leg of this package, in addition to the fact that what lies in front of us is otherwise eligible in detail, even if we can connect it to a detail, obviously, it is the subject of a policy debate, but I'm scraping the government to have a national package that can respond to typical Hungarian peculiarities. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-27-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The substance of the proposal was presented by the Secretary of State. I would just like to add a few things that my fellow Member Erik Bánki added to this. I think that we are here in a crisis that is not caused by Hungary, not by the Hungarian people, not by the Hungarian economy, but by the epidemiological situation, and it is obviously in the economic interest of all nations to recover from this as soon as possible. I think that the institution of the covered bond can provide significant help in this, especially if we look at the size of this financial product's market. This is a market of EUR 3000 billion, and I think that it is therefore also in the primary national interest to be regulated, even if it is really about the transposition of an EU directive, but I think that this will help the Hungarian economy to get out of the crisis. The additional guarantee, which may not have been mentioned, is that the Member States will only have to apply it from July 2022, so there is plenty of time to prepare for it and possibly put in place additional safeguards in national competence. The other thing I wanted to mention briefly is Community funding. I, too, believe that Europe, as unfortunately in many other respects, is infinitely behind global competitors; I am thinking primarily of America in the area of crowdfunding. And I would also say that I agree with Dániel Z. Carpathian, but at the same time he is nuanced by the fact that this market is a full market, and the dominant players are all American companies. If you just look at the five largest such providers, you can see that they are both American or otherwise Chinese businesses. So here, the European competitive disadvantage can only be worked out, but Europe is already finding a market gap in this, and I believe that it will not, at the same time for the Hungarian startups, if not on Hungarian platforms, but on US platforms, but it will certainly be safer to collect this type of capital if it is regulated as opposed to or contrary to the previous ones. Perhaps I would like to draw attention to one more purpose, which I think is important, after all, that, by adopting this proposal to support sustainable development and green money, the target system and mandate of the Hungarian National Bank will be extended and will include support for environmental sustainability, which I think is an extremely important goal. In view of this, the KDNP will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-04-27-180	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We, for our part, will support this proposal. Perhaps Mr Secretary of State could point out in the closing words what my fellow Member has just referred to as a positive point, how we will imagine this in the case of the National Bank of Hungary, in order to add sustainability as an eligible target system. That wasn't entirely clear to me, at least based on the justification. If there is some extra explanation in this, I thank you, but we will basically support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take part in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Gábor Gion, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-182	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman Lords! Thank you very much for your support. I would like to reflect very briefly on the points. Crowdfunding. I think we see the question the same with Hollik, Z. Carpathian gentlemen. I think that, since this is a relatively new product, and Europe is trying to hold on to it now, we need to keep our eye on it with emphasis so that risks and benefits are balanced. I think that why the Americans and Asians may be moving forward, I personally admit that the approach of European regulators to the financial intermediary system is much more security-sensitive, not just investor security, but also public security. Perhaps Congressman Z. Carpath doesn't see it that way, but that's the big difference. American and Asian financial regulators allow for greater risk-taking, and obviously all new financial products or financial services involve greater risks than one already introduced something. The group donation leg understood what Congressman Z. Carpathian said. We understand the question. It may not be necessary to regulate this in the financial regulatory framework, but I have written it down and memorized it. As far as evictions are concerned, foreign exchange lending, the release of irresponsible lending in the 2000s, I think that there is no debate between us. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is currently a credit moratorium, so there is no eviction due to payment, because there is no concept of payment. So that's not gonna happen. The success of the credit moratorium, not its success, I think that it will be possible to fully judge it after the credit moratorium. It is certain that the Hungarian credit moratorium is the longest-term credit moratorium and the most complete of the credit moratoriums where this tool was introduced to protect the population and businesses. As far as banks are concerned, not profit, if there were no moratorium, banks could have made more money on interest rates by tens of billions of HUF than they did. The interest rate is not charged at interest rate, so it has to be paid in a linear way in the future, so these are tens of billions of dollars of the item that the banks have already described as impairment. As far as the MNB's Green Programs are concerned, it is worth watching the MNB's announcements. There is also one concrete point in this proposal that a certain part of the supervisory fines, at least 6 per cent, may be spent by the central bank on specific green tasks. So it's a specific thing. I would also like to point out that, among the world's central banks, the Hungarian National Bank was the first to launch a dedicated green investment portfolio a few years ago. I hope I have covered all the issues raised here. Thank you very much, and thank you for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the establishment and operation of the submission of a data base for the identification of financial and other service providers until closure. The government referral is T/15996. can be viewed on the House's IT network for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-184	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The government has consistently sought to whiten the economy and is committed to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. To this end, the current draft law is in line with the system of measures taken earlier, by creating new instruments to facilitate the transparency of economic operators. [[19.50]] Hungary is obliged to transpose into domestic law the effective ownership register provided for by the EU's Fourth Anti-money laundering Directive and the Fifth Anti-money laundering Directive which amends it, as well as the provisions on the establishment and operation of bank accounts and safe registers. With the establishment of central registers, Hungary will significantly improve the effectiveness, transparency and functionality of the domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. The service providers covered by the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing are such as banks, law firms, auditors, gambling organisers, and the other providers of real ownership data provide a new tool to fulfil customer due diligence obligations. The authorities responsible for combating money laundering can better identify the ownership of organisations suspected of money laundering, even in complex business networks, by means of supervisors, law enforcement agencies, prosecutors and courts through access to central databases. The draft law complements the existing anti-money laundering law, hereinafter referred to as Pmt, and Pmt is built as much as possible in the operation of central databases. to existing frameworks and outstanding liabilities. Pmt is widely used here. on the basis of the data already available for the operators concerned. Access to databases will be provided to public authorities, service providers and any member of the population. The functioning of the central register of actual ownership data is based on the provision of data by payment service providers managing the payment account, thereby reducing the administrative burden of reporting undertakings and non-profit organisations. It also simplifies the situation of the organisations concerned that they should be provided with the help of banks with which they are already in a living relationship, rather than by various public authorities, bodies managing business registers, bodies managing the register of civil society organisations. The frequency of the regular updating of the actual ownership database in one month also entails a narrower administrative obligation. The National Tax and Customs Office is responsible for the establishment and operation of the registers set out in the Directive in Hungary as a registration body. The operation of the registers is not carried out by the NAV as a function of the tax authority, nor as an official activity, but as a function of a service. Any entity, civil society organisation, trust trustee in the case of a trust management relationship that is registered or registered in Hungary and which is partly State-owned entities with a non-State ownership share of at least 25 per cent shall be required to provide information in the actual ownership register. The actual ownership data of the reporting entities shall be transmitted to the central register by the financial institutions leading the payment account. The actual ownership data shall be aggregated by the NAV as a registration body by means of the registration number of the reporting entity and assigned a unique registration identifier to the entity. Dear Parliament, It is also necessary to establish a central register, a central electronic data recovery system, to enable the timely identification of natural or legal persons who hold or control a credit institution's payment account in the territory of that Member State; this is the central register of bank accounts or safe services. On the basis of the model proposed according to the draft, financial institutions or safe providers providing this service shall send the necessary data to the Registry in the case of the central bank account and safe register. Honourable Members, In addition to the establishment of central registers, the bill provides for Pmt. amending certain provisions concerning customer due diligence. On the basis of practical experience, it has become necessary to review the provisions on customer due diligence. On the basis of the proposals, simplified customer due diligence arrangements will become more flexible, reducing the administrative burden on reporting agents while ensuring effective implementation. Dear House, With the bill before you now, Hungary will significantly improve the effectiveness, transparency and functioning of the national anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. In addition, it fulfils its obligations in the European Union, thereby supporting Hungary's commitment to combating money laundering and terrorist financing, reducing the international attackability of the domestic anti-money laundering system. Modern regulation and its effective implementation continue to serve the purpose of making it difficult and, if possible, preventing the laundering of the returns of economic crimes for criminals, thus protecting not only our financial and economic system but also the whole of an honest society more than ever. I ask you to support and accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-04-27-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-04-27-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, By creating legislation on the table of this House, Hungary is once again fulfilling an obligation to harmonise EU legislation by ensuring that its 4th, anti-money laundering directive and 5th anti-money laundering directive, published on 19 June 2018, which amended it, are transposed into domestic law as regards the actual ownership register and the provisions on the establishment and operation of bank accounts and safekeeping for Member States. By establishing central registers, Hungary will significantly improve the effectiveness, transparency and functionality of its activities against domestic money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as demonstrate its commitment to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Dear House, The 5th, the anti-money laundering directive, has developed more detailed and precise rules on the obligations for real ownership and the central actual ownership database. It is also a directive requirement that the competent authorities have access to information on the beneficial owner without limitation in all cases by supervisors, investigating authorities, the prosecutor's office and the court and financial information units. The access of obliged service providers shall be provided in order to ensure that the customer due diligence is carried out by them. For any member of the population, access to data relating to the name, year and month of birth of the beneficial owner, the name of the country of residence and the nationality of the beneficial owner and the nature and extent of the actual ownership interest is required to be a minimum. In the case of a trust management relationship, the condition for access to actual ownership information will, mutatis mutandis, be proof of legitimate legitimate interest. The operational model presented in the bill builds as much as possible on the 2017 LIII on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. to existing frameworks and existing obligations already in place under law, thus making a wide use of the data already available to the operators concerned on the basis thereof. Accordingly, the functioning of the central register of actual ownership data is based on the provision of data by payment service providers managing the payment account, thereby reducing the administrative burden of reporting undertakings and non-profit organisations. It also simplifies the situation of the organisations concerned that they should be provided by means of more than a variety of public authorities, such as the company registration body or the civil society registration body, but also by the operators with which they are already living. [[20.00]] The frequency of the regular updating of the actual ownership database in one month also entails less administrative obligations than otherwise the need for preparatory negotiations, which would have required real-time changes to be followed. The National Tax and Customs Office will be responsible for the establishment and operation of the registers set out in the Directive in Hungary. The operation of the registers will not be carried out by the NAV as a tax authority or as an official activity, but as a service task as proposed. Dear House, By adopting the Act on the establishment and operation of the data base related to the task of identifying financial and other service providers, Hungary is fulfilling, as I mentioned earlier, another legal harmonisation obligation. On the basis of the Union Directive, each Member State should establish a central register of actual ownership data on a number of economic and non-profit organisations registered or registered in that Member State. It is also necessary to establish a central register of bank accounts and safe services. It is in the common interest of the actors involved in the fight against money laundering to ensure that databases are operational as soon as possible, thereby providing both public authorities and market players with a useful tool to support anti-money laundering. With the adoption of the bill, Hungary reaffirms its commitment to combating money laundering and terroristism financing, ensuring modern regulation and effective implementation will continue to serve to make it difficult and, if possible, to prevent the laundering of the returns of economic crimes for criminals and to make it increasingly difficult to finance the activities of the criminal circles, thus protecting both our financial system and society more strongly than ever. In light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. And before I give the floor to the Member, I would like to inform the House that I am giving the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. Congressman, you have the floor. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-04-27-188	Mr President, Dear House, We thank the President for his work on this exchange. I would like to note that the Jobbik faction will, of course, support all proposals containing substantive action against money laundering, if there is no hidden mine, we hope that we will not find one in this either. With regard to the explanation of the previous item on the agenda, I would like to point out that the existence of a credit moratorium does not in itself cause the Minister of State not to re-launch evictions in a few days' time. The fact is that, regardless of the credit moratorium, implementations and enforcement bans are taking place, and online auctions and eviction processes have been able to run smoothly in much of the epidemiological emergency, as I have pointed out in the previous case that very serious problems may arise here. And it is not clear either about the date of the eviction moratorium's expiry; according to one legal opinion, in a few days' time we will be able to say goodbye to the eviction moratorium, and a lot of executives are looking forward to this, and mass evictions can start even in the middle of the emergency. I think we can all agree that this would create an unsustainable situation, which is why we have launched a petition in order to put forward proposals to extend the eviction moratorium. However, we will continue this debate many times until the situation of those affected is resolved soothingly. I would also like to say that I very much welcome the indication of the final, actual owner in certain cases. During the epidemic situation, we have had a business situation where we would have been very happy to see the ultimate and real owner and, where appropriate, offshore companies entering into the intermediary, making profits that they might not otherwise be entitled to, and looking for an extra profit in a place where profit research would not have any place to be, but so much about the epidemic, because we discussed this at another point on the agenda. And I would also like to welcome the fact that the NAV is publishing a list of unreliable companies. About the index solution, around TT, it is possible to hold professional debates that this is the most effective or not, I could think of something much better, but obviously this is the subject of a committee debate rather than the plenary session of Parliament. We welcome the fact that we can start from zero to somewhere at all, but the fine-tuning, however, my request is to do it at committee level, which has so far been cancelled in the last eleven years of Hungarian parliamentarism. But if any government official makes any proposals against money laundering, corruption, and it's meaningful, and it helps, we'll support it. I dream of a Hungary where the proportion of single-playing public procurement is not as high as it is today, but at a normal level that the market can tolerate. I dream of a Hungary where the direct environment of people in different positions of government leadership is unable to obtain tax forints even through processing. And I dream of a Hungary where parliamentary days like today cannot occur, when, in an hour, a record, a thousand billion-dollar fortune changes the master in essence, and they even play the different props and sets of parliamentarism and democracy. Once again, if the intention is sincere, I support it, but after eleven years of working together, allow me some doubt, because experience is a great master. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-04-27-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2021-04-27-190	Thank you very much for the floor. I do not want to open a different type of debate here, because it does not really relate to this bill, which lies before us, but, my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát Z, if you look at the proportion of single-playing public procurement, you will see that Hungary is below the EU average, and in Brussels, for example, Belgium, but also for direct EU public procurement, if the number of single-playing public procurements is as low as in Hungary. [[Erik Bánki applauds. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Then we are not looking at the same statistics!]] I would just like to add that for the sake of fact. The bill before us, as the Secretary of State said, is a bill for harmonisation. I think that no one will dispute it, and we all agree that by adopting this bill Hungary will confirm its commitment to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. This is a state-of-the-art regulation, and ensuring effective implementation continues to serve the purpose of making economic crime more difficult and perhaps even stronger than so far protecting our financial system and the Hungarian citizens who use it; and in this respect, I would point out that no administrative, additional administrative burden will be imposed on citizens who are legally using financial services in a law-abiding manner. It requires administrative and IT development for banks and NAV, but it will not affect citizens. In addition, and therefore, of course, the KDNP supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congressman!
u2021-04-27-192	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As my fellow Member Hollik began to comment, a reaction does fit. Well, of course, if there are multi-player public procurement procedures where Lőrinc Mészáros runs against his son-in-law, there is no great danger that Lőrinc Mészáros's family will not win. So, there is another step in this because there is a problem not only with single-playing procurement procedures, but also with family-type public procurement, when let me repeat it once more! Lőrinc Mészáros's company competes with the company of Lőrinc Mészáros's daughter's daughter's daughter, so it can be relatively sure that it has a ten-point hit in public procurement. Besides, Minister Gergely Gulyás does not share your opinion, because at a conference on public procurement last year, he actually reacted that the European Commission has dealt with the high proportion of single-playing public procurement more than once, as a kind of concern for Hungary, and Gergely Gulyás said that this was not stupid, and that in Brussels they could be happy if it were such a fantastic proportion as Hungary, but reacted that if such a case exists, for example, in the field of health and information technology, the legislator should also act there. I'm just saying this because it came out of the mouth of your minister at a conference on this subject last December, if I remember correctly. [[20.10]] But that is not what I would like to talk about, either, but what the Secretary of State was talking about. However, I can easily do that, because if by making this more transparent, it would increase the possibility of exposing money laundering and terrorist financing offences or preventing transparency, regulation, it would, of course, be supported by all normal people. The MSZP fraction will do the same in the vote. Thank you very much.
u2021-04-27-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, who, on behalf of the authors, wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2021-04-27-194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the late hour, allow me to speak only briefly to the presentation, and all I have to say is that I thank you very much for your supporting contributions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-04-27-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I declare that in today's decisions the number of votes cast has been wrongly announced in two cases. The Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation, the Tokaj-Hegyalja University Foundation and the Tokaj-Hegyalja University, T/15716. The number of votes cast is correctly 59 yes, 130 no, and 2 abstentions. T/15725 on the Future Generation Land Foundation, on the asset allocation to the Future Generation Land Foundation and on the amendment of certain laws in this context The number of votes cast in the vote on the proposed amendment, which summarizes the number of amendments, is correctly 132 yes, 57 no, 0 abstentions. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that this does not change the outcome of the vote. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Erik Bánki, Fidesz Group asked for a speech with the title "In memoriam Zsolt Kapcsa." Congressman, Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2021-04-27-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech after today's agenda, I would like to commemorate the loss of the esteemed citizen of Mohács, the family father of three children, and many of our good friends Zsolt Kapcsa. These are difficult times. Our peaceful, calm life took a radical turn over over a year ago. I can say with a calm heart to you, ladies and gentlemen, none of us at the beginning of last year would have thought how much damage the release of a virus we do not know will cause us, how many families will be maimed, how many innocent people's lives will be taken away, how many thousands of jobs it will take from our fellow citizens, and what serious economic consequences it will have. Before the release of the Covid-19 virus from Wuhani, we considered it unthinkable to introduce a curfew in Hungary, to close factories and plants for a short or longer period of time, to order an extraordinary break in schools and kindergartens, and not even to think that families would be separated from each other in order to protect the health of our parents and grandparents. We've been going through months in the past that we don't want anyone to have. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government has also done outstanding work on the fight against viral infection at European level. However, no matter how fast and effective a series of measures has happened in Hungary, we have unfortunately not been able to save all lives. All life matters. Losing all our countrymen is a grave loss to us. The closer we lose a friend, friend, or family member, the more painful it is for us. This happened to us in Mohács when we lost our dear friend Zsolt Kapcsa, a respected person of local public life. A man, a father of three, who had no illness, who lived happily with us a good month ago, led his company, gave work to dozens of people, and not only cared for his own family, but also for his neighbors and friends. There was no question we couldn't ask him. We didn't have a suggestion that we wouldn't have found a partner and partner in him, who wouldn't have spent long hours helping us with his advice or work, giving us briefings, or helping us find out about the dense mysteries of agriculture. We never thought we'd lose a healthy person in a few weeks. This virus is extremely aggressive and extremely dangerous. At first, he only attacked the elderly, the people with the basic diseases, and then came down to the Middle Ages, and today he is threatening the lives of young people as well. Ladies and gentlemen, We can't tell you enough, enough places, that the virus can only be stopped, and only by vaccination, by vaccination. To this day, our dear friend Zsolt Kapcsa would still be in our midst if we had been able to immunize him on time, and so he had the chance to fight the virus. I would like to thank the Government of Hungary once again for ensuring that not only the European Union's messed-up procurement of vaccines for the protection of Hungarian citizens, but also the Eastern vaccine, that we are able to inoculate our fellow citizens in Europe in the highest proportion and fastest. Believe me, fellow Members, this is the only way to protect our families, our friends, our countrymen. Everyone take the vaccine, protect each other, and try to end this distressing period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-04-27-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a speech with the title "The Hungarian People Ask." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-27-198	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have the basic idea that the MP is for the people, not the other way around, that the people are for the congressman. I think it is important that the people's voices continue to appear in Parliament. For this reason, on my social media site, I recently wondered what questions the Hungarian people would ask the members of the Fidesz government if they had the opportunity to do so. There have been a lot of questions, and let me ask you a few of them now. Eve asks you that when hundreds of Hungarians die every day, no one thought to save people's lives from billions destined for the MotoGP course. I'd add that if it was MotoGP, it'd be Vávoly. You have to finish the Balatonring. This project could be completed with a fraction of the money for Hajdúnánána, and the difference could also be used for health care, for example, in the Marcal hospital for children's ward or for the purchase of the promised CT device. Zoltán would be interested to know why the Chinese vaccine had to be bought through an intermediary company and why it costs more than the EU paid for the Pfizer vaccine. Valeria wants to know how they could do that in the most difficult weeks of the pandemic they forced health workers to choose. [[20.20]] Also a lady named Éva sends a message to you that the digital education is below criticism, freezing the system. And his question is, "Where there are three children, how do they solve it?" Do you think the government can buy a computer? Unfortunately, the truth is that not everyone can buy a computer in Hungary today, which is a rather sad condition. And a gentleman also named Zoltán asks, "Why are people being destroyed?" Why are you letting banks, collectors and other lowlifes take what's been paid multiple times? Thinking, among other things, of foreign exchange lenders, who have often repaid multiples of the credit received from the banks, but now they can be put on the street by the executives at virtually any moment. Piri has a number of questions, including how many more people do you want to drive out of the country? And when will it be that they do not discriminate between families? For a family is also a mother who raises one, two or more children alone. This is indeed true, my fellow Members, unfortunately many mothers of Somogy raise their children alone without a man's support. Krisztina's question sounds like: "How long do you think you can hide the country's inability to function with your well-built lies? For example, enlisting, migranting, Brusselsing, or recently anti-vaccination mantra. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Michael wants to know what happened to the sentence that if the euro were to rise above HUF 300, the current Prime Minister would have to resign. Well, yes, what did Prime Minister Viktor Orbán say in 2004? The only people who want weak forints are weak people. Then what kind of people would want this very weak forint? Rita wants to know why the Prime Minister does not stand up to a debate with the opposition candidate, and I am sure that this debate would be followed by a lot of people. And Adele wants an answer to a simple question so simple that how long do they want to steal, lie? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Indeed, keeping promises would be a fundamental requirement for a Member of Parliament. I could continue to ask questions, my honourable members of the Government, but I will finish with this. Adam asks, "When will they answer the questions of the Hungarian people?" 'Cause I don't see a government-appointed responder. But I will continue to ask the questions of my fellow countrymen I represent, I promise you that. Mr President, thank you for listening.
u2021-04-27-199	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group, also spoke after the agenda: on the development of Balatoni in the context of facts. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-04-27-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the left tries to drill, prevent, or make all the ideas, decisions about Balaton in a bad way. This seems to be a good move, since everyone loves Balaton, so no one is indifferent to what happens at the Hungarian sea. The trick, however, is transparent. I am talking about the left-wing cooperation from DK to Jobbik, from MSZP to Momentum, for which nothing is sacred, nothing is expensive when it comes to power. Make no mistake, it is the same left, where, like the years before 2010, Ferenc Gyurcsány is still the master. But let's not be prejudiced by any chance. Let's assume that the left doesn't just want to use Balaton as a campaign tool, but is really concerned about it. But I'm asking you, where was this concern before? Where was this concern when, during the governance of the left, he became the victim of brutal privatisation at Lake Balaton? Where were the concerned lefties then? I'll help you. They were there with their fellow parties between 2002 and 2010 when some 190 companies were sold out of state assets. They sold Siótour, Balatontourist, Zalatour to the kissers for a total of HUF 8.39 billion. The three largest tourist companies, all the Balaton campsites, beaches and tourist interests were sold, not to mention the Balatonőszöd villa case. As everything went down, there were the usual promises. Remember his fairy tale called the SCD that promises gigantic Balaton developments? Of course, the promises didn't turn into anything but a sale of the Balaton real estate and a massive state failure. Then the 2010 change of government took place, after which we managed to restore the economy, and with it the investment spirit in Lake Balaton increased again. More guests, tourism started to grow. New and impressive buildings began to be built in the place of mossy roofed tents, rotten wooden houses, and watery sociological cube buildings. I would add that it was the Fidesz-KDNP government that significantly strengthened the Balaton law adopted by the Socialists earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, For me, Lake Balaton is not a political issue, but an emotional issue. The Balaton at home. It was as a child, as a student, as an employee, as an entrepreneur, as a vice president of the county assembly, as a Member of Parliament, and it will continue to be so in the future. That is why I am pleased with the unprecedented billions of years of development, the fact that previously ruined free and paid beaches are finally being built, that accommodations are being modernized, that transport infrastructure is constantly improving, and that new attractions and new services attract those who want to relax. Perhaps it is not exaggeration to claim that the Balaton development government has not yet intended as much resources as the current one. Some people do for the Balaton, and some people just talk about it. I'm a man of action, because there are other tasks to be solved with abundance, but that's why I'm troubled by petty lies. For example, what they say about taking free beaches: in contrast to the lies, there are currently 110 beaches, 40 kilometers of length around Lake Balaton. The length of the free beaches is 25 km, compared to the 15 km of the paid beaches. There are 22 free beaches in the 8 settlements of my district, 9,5 kilometers long, and the paid beaches are only 2.5 kilometers away. So what are we talking about? Well, if you really love Balaton, you don't lie about it, because you can't love it lying. I have said a thousand times that the development of Lake Balaton must be supported, because the strengthening of the region's economy, the creation of jobs and the expansion of quality services are common interests, but these developments must be proportionate, landscape-appropriate, environmentally friendly and not least widely accepted. As a Member of Parliament, I have already heard my voice, and it will continue to be so in the future. I always stand up for Lake Balaton in every situation. I am convinced that Lake Balaton cannot be a tool for party political campaigns. The Balaton is ours, it belongs to all of us, so we deserve to be responsible for it. This is the responsible attitude I took when and when I initiated a surveillance investigation into the construction of the e-port in Balatonföldvár, in order to prevent the rental of the Bahart marinas or the construction of the concrete monster in Balatonföldvár. Since I am not a professional in these matters, I am only a committed Balatonian who would never want to harm the people who live there, so I can assure everyone that as a Member of the Parliament of the region, I am informed of each matter with sufficient detail and, if necessary, I will, of course, take concrete steps, as I have done in the past. Because my goal is to provide the most optimal solutions in these matters, which are of the best interest to the Balaton, the Balatons and the guests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2021-04-27-201	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone.
